

601 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Intro to Seduction 

BYLINE:  By Jonathan Wilson; Jonathan Wilson's most recent novel is "A Palestine Affair." He is chairman of the English department at Tufts University.

 BODY:
 REUNION
By Alan Lightman.
231 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $22.
 The spacious idea that less is more certainly has its moments in American life (there's Emily Dickinson, minimalist design and now the Mini Cooper), but in general the country's passions are aroused by lots and lots of something: pages, spectacular accidents in a movie, number of home runs in a game. Alan Lightman's elegant new novel, spare, economical and charged with meaning, is a seasonal reminder that special effects can be luminously achieved without pyrotechnics.
The plot of "Reunion" is uncomplicated. Charles, a "small-college professor" in his early 50's, more or less amicably settled into domestic banality in a leafy suburb, decides to attend his 30th college reunion. Once back at his unnamed alma mater (the environment seems Princeton-like), he is struck with eidetic force by recollections of his first passionate love affair, with an aspiring ballerina, Juliana. A narrative of this love affair and reflections upon it form the bulk of the novel; the salient reunion for Charles arrives, via the vagaries of memory and its slipperiness and distortions, with his younger self. It comes as no surprise that for the author of "Einstein's Dreams" considerations of love and life-altering choices are inevitably bound up with meditations on time, and in this novel, as in the earlier book, there are some formal innovations that demonstrate and endorse theories of relativity. But alchemically turning science into art is not at the heart of "Reunion," which seeks, in less elliptical fashion than "Einstein's Dreams," to plumb life's most complicated and enduring relationship: that between who one was and who one is.
The settings for the remembered affair, quite appropriate to young love, oscillate between the campus and New York City, where Juliana, yearning for a position with Balanchine and burning with envy of Suzanne Farrell, plies her trade in a second-rate ballet company. The years are 1968-69, the bombing of Cambodia is about to begin, draft cards are burned, and, in a manner that must now seem incomprehensible to readers under 45, professors invite students home to smoke dope with them and then go on happily to conduct their ritual seductions. Or not that happily in the case of Charles's English prof with the standard shoulder-length hair, James Galloway. 
James, who likes to read aloud his "melancholy and sentimental" poems to his captive audience, has a crummy, crumbling marriage whose miseries send him, inevitably, into the arms of the lovely Juliana. Charles finds out. This should be all right; it is, after all, the late 60's. But Charles, ahead of his time, goes a little bit "Oleanna" and threatens to expose his favorite prof to both the university authorities and Mrs. Galloway. Or does he? Lightman knows achingly well that memory, history and desire are mixed elements in the compendium of fictions that crisscross our thought process, and so he provides alternative visions of what might have occurred after Charles, fueled by jealousy, stepped into Galloway's book-filled office to confront him. In the first version the professor is pilloried by Charles, while in the second Charles relents, and even shakes Galloway's hand, "man to man, both trying to cope in a world of unfathomable emotion." 
"Reunion" is a novel that has all kinds of interesting things to say about how we reconstruct the elusive past, particularly where love and passion are concerned, but is also a book that comes with the high ambition of restoring authenticity to experiences that have been sullied and distorted by decades of interference from, well, the media, especially television and its digital cousins. As the adult Charles makes clear in an early rumination, the media, as is the nature of the beast, mediate -- that is, get in between and in the way of -- not through any necessary superficiality or triteness of subject matter but through the simple fact that they transform life into "just so many electronic pixels." The communicating television screen that brings Charles and his partner, Sheila, a horrific story of the suffering of Honduran refugees actually does more harm than good and prevents, rather than assists, the passing on of meaningful information. 
"I've decided," Charles tells us,"that has been the great achievement of our age: to so thoroughly flood the planet with megabits that every image and fact has become a digitized disembodied nothingness. With magnificent determination, our species has advanced from Stone Age to Industrial Revolution to Digital Emptiness. We've become weightless, in the bad sense of the word." Lightman's lucid, limpid prose is an attempt to restore the proper weight to our representation of experience. Of course, words get in the way too, but handled properly, he seems to be saying, they won't bring the smell-free, emotion-free white noise that has turned us into techno-zombies. 
Here is Charles describing what Juliana does to her damaged feet in order to keep dancing: "One by one she lances each blister, runs the needle and thread through, and leaves the thread in the blister. 'I told you not to look,' she says. With the black threads hanging from her feet, wet and bloody, she puts her shoes on, stands, and hobbles to the horizontal barre." This graphic description resonates as a stinging reminder of how some people will suffer for their art, but it is also, both for Charles and for the reader, an eyeful of the real, a reminder of the jolt you get when you look carefully and directly at something painful that has not been filtered by a screen. 
"Reunion" falters only once, when Lightman inserts a series of anecdotes concerning a minor 19th-century German astronomer named Ulrich Schmeken. Schmeken is hot with the telescope and uses his big brain to turn on young girls until one of them, Lena Hammans, smarter than her would-be instructor, as it turns out (she will go on to become a brilliant biologist), brings him to his knees. The astronomy-biology conflict, and Lena's insight that "sex is the most powerful force in the universe," clearly have some bearing on the teacher-student shenanigans that Charles recalls, but even so the Schmeken passages appear a little forced, as if Lightman were throwing a juicy science bone to fans of his earlier work. 
The overall achievement, however, is delightful. "Reunion" is at times grotesquely comic -- there is an irresistible rendering of the nightmare college reunion itself, where everyone is wearing a pig's snout and alums compete to see who is "the man with the least hair" -- but most powerfully the novel explores the seductions and betrayals of young love in a way that restores significance to passions that passing time demands we shrug off.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Boris Kulikov) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); DANCERS (67%); BALLET (67%); DANCE COMPANIES (67%); DANCE (67%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: WILSON, JONATHAN; LIGHTMAN, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: REUNION (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



602 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: The Previous Superpower 

BYLINE:  By Fareed Zakaria; Fareed Zakaria, the editor of Newsweek International, is the author of "The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad."

 BODY:
 A HISTORY OF BRITAIN
The Fate of Empire, 1776-2000.
By Simon Schama.
Illustrated. 576 pp. New York:
Miramax Books/Hyperion. $40.
 IN 1896 a young Winston Churchill arrived in Bangalore, India, as a junior officer of the Fourth Queen's Own Hussars, searching -- as ever -- for action, excitement and glory. He was a staunch believer in the British Empire. He gloried in its power but believed that it was different from all past empires, blessed with a historic civilizing mission. Britain was the bastion of liberty, destined to spread its values through backward lands. The empire's purpose, he wrote, was to "give peace to warring tribes, to administer justice where all was violence, to strike the chains off the slave, to plant the seeds of commerce and learning." "What more beautiful idea," he asked, "can inspire human effort?" 
And yet, Simon Schama writes, in the third and final volume of his "History of Britain," "There was an awful lot of hanging around in the club, pending the accomplishment of these great goals." Churchill details the utterly lavish life of British officers in India, waited on hand and foot by a retinue of servants: "There was nothing they would not do. Their world became bound by the commonplace articles of your wardrobe . . . no toil was too hard, no hours were too long. . . . Princes could live no better than we." For most of the officers in Bangalore -- indeed for most generals and viceroys -- the empire's purpose had much more to do with the preservation of their power, and British power more generally, than the improvement of India. This tension between Britain's power and its ideals surfaces repeatedly in Schama's engaging book, which is subtitled "The Fate of Empire." This is a history lesson that should interest Americans today as we contemplate our own lofty ideals and immense power.
Schama, university professor at Columbia University, opens with the warning that "readers in search of an exhaustive account of the careers of Sir Robert Peel or Reginald Maudling should put this book down right now." This is not a comprehensive history with a straightforward narrative, touching on all the major events of modern British history. Partly this is the result of the pull of television. The book is a companion volume to Schama's widely broadcast television series and is structured as a collection of episodes (told through individuals) that span the years 1776 to 2000. Schama is unashamedly idiosyncratic, pointing out that his book is a history of Britain, not the history of Britain. Still, it might seem odd that this volume barely mentions the American Revolution, the War of 1812, the Crimean War or the Boer War. And it is sometimes too breezy in structure and tone, assuming readers will know the basic facts about, say, the repeal of the Corn Laws. But while one might quibble with the lack of emphasis on this figure or that event -- I, for one, did want more on Peel, one of Britain's most important prime ministers -- on the whole Schama pulls it off. He writes wonderfully, in an easygoing yet elegant manner, with an eye for the telling aesthetic detail, and throughout brimming with intelligence and passion. In addition, most of the biographical essays do end up serving to highlight, in one way or another, his central theme -- the push and pull between Britain's liberal hopes and its imperial realities. 
The first hundred pages of the book are taken up with the intellectual and cultural atmosphere surrounding the French Revolution (at the time seen as a far more important event than its American counterpart). The question on every European's mind was, Is violent revolution the way of the future? Schama tells the story through romantic philosophers like Jean Jacques Rousseau, poets like William Wordsworth and political writers like Tom Paine, Mary Wollstonecraft and William Cobbett. The latter group, Britain's radicals and liberals, forced incremental but persistent reform and thus staved off revolution. By the end of the 1830's, Britain had passed an emancipation act for Catholics, abolished slavery in its colonies, vastly expanded the number eligible to vote and embraced free trade. 
Things hadn't gone as all the radicals had wanted. Having seen industrialization as the enemy, many would have been shocked to discover that it was industrialization that broke down Britain's oligarchies and hierarchies. "Like Rousseau, Wordsworth believed that the British countryside ought to be the antidote to, not the accomplice of, modernity," Schama writes. "But the opposites had somehow got together, got inside each other; country people wanting town things; town people yearning for a piece of the countryside. And they got it. The most industrial society in the world was also the most attached to its village memories."
Schama uses the Great Exhibition of 1851 in the Crystal Palace in London to open his account of Victorian Britain. Meant to showcase the wonders of British industry, for many in Britain the exhibition meant a great deal more. Prince Albert, Victoria's consort, had explained that it heralded the dawn of a happy world of growers, makers and shoppers. Commerce would triumph over war, and expositions like the Great Exhibition would be the preferred alternative to military parades. Though skimping on the economics, Schama paints a fair enough picture of Victorian Britain -- and a fascinating portrait of its royal couple, Victoria and Albert -- with its inexorable economic dynamism, political reform, worries about cultural decay and horrific social conditions. He reminds us that at the height of mid-Victorian equipoise, life expectancy for mechanics and laborers was 17 years. 
The gap between Britain's rhetoric and its reality is most marked in its experience as an imperial power. Schama tells this story using only two examples among Britain's vast possessions, but they are the central ones -- Ireland and India. The mid-Victorians saw in India a laboratory for all their ideas of improvement. Thomas Babington Macaulay, the most eloquent exponent of liberal imperialism, explained in a speech in parliament that as Britain charted the beginning of its rule in India, it should accept, even celebrate, its eventual end. "To have found a great people sunk in the lowest depths of slavery and superstition," Macaulay said, "to have so ruled them as to have made them desirous and capable of all the privileges of citizens, would indeed be a title to glory all our own." And many of the Britons -- almost all Scots, Irish, or Welsh -- who ran India approached their tasks filled with Enlightenment ideas about science, free trade and constitutional government. The Victorian liberals were patronizing about India but they passionately wanted to bring progress to its people.
But the empire was not only -- or even largely -- about civilizing. It was also about accumulating economic advantage and maintaining power. After the Indian Mutiny of 1857 this motive became paramount, and men like Macaulay lost out to a tougher and more cynical bunch. The rhetoric of free trade persisted, but the reality was that tariffs were constantly manipulated to favor British imports and disadvantage Indian products. Often it was more than tariffs. In Orissa, the government banned the production of salt altogether, which was the chief livelihood of most of its people. Not surprisingly, in the famine of 1866, a quarter of the state's population died. Equal justice under the law was the motto, but Indian judges could not hear cases involving Europeans. Schama writes later in the book about George Orwell's fury during his posting in British Burma: "It was the gap between the self-righteousness of the governing-class ideals -- Christianity, cricket and civilizing the natives -- and the reality of coercion that most offended him."
Perhaps even more surprising, given the prejudices of the time, was the attitude taken toward Ireland, a European country. London had been content to let the tiny Anglo-Irish oligarchy run Ireland in the worst feudal manner. British liberals like William Gladstone flirted with ideas of land reform and local autonomy, but they always withered against the brute realities of maintaining power. Indeed, Schama describes in a harrowing section how the British saw benefits in Ireland's famines of 1846 and 1850 -- in which one million people, nearly 15 percent of the population -- died. Many thoughtful Britons seriously explained that this would reduce the problem of overpopulation (about which the Victorians were obsessed since Thomas Malthus). The Times of London opined that Providence had supplied a "check of nature" and that society is "reconstructed in disaster." In retrospect, the obvious solution to Britain and Ireland's tragic association was autonomy (Home Rule). But the British (particularly British conservatives) always feared they would look weak; and in staying strong, they encouraged Irish extremism, terror and separatism. Both in Ireland and India the gradualist, constitutional paths to self-government that Macaulay envisioned never took place. Instead what emerged was a raw contest of power, and eventually Britain, waning on the world stage, accommodated itself to reality and let go. 
The final section of the book is a brilliant, essayistic look at modern Britain through the lives of two men, Winston Churchill and George Orwell. Schama does more with these two well-worn lives than one could have imagined. In particular, he uses Orwell to tell the story of Britain's fall from superpower and its resurrection as a less glorious but vibrant and modern nation. In these last chapters one can see clearly that this isnot an angry account of Britain but a realistic one. In seeing his country warts and all, Schama is able to paint an affectionate and human picture of a country to which he is still deeply attached. In Orwell's "Golden Country," he concludes, "nature, love, freedom and history are all raveled up together. Some before him called such a place of hopes and blessings 'Jerusalem.' And some of us obstinately think we can still call it Britain."
The reality that Schama does not dwell on, however, is Britain's complex legacy. A vast majority of third-world democracies today are former British colonies. Despite the undeniable cruelties and hypocrisies of British imperialism, it brought organization, institutions and Enlightenment ideas to some of its colonies. (Not all; Orwell was right about Burma.) In the end, Britain's failure was that it could never keep faith in its liberal ideals, succumbing instead to the petty arrogance of race and national might. America is a different country, of course -- less fascinated by empire -- but in one important respect it faces the same paradox as Britain. No matter how compelling America's ideals, they still come wrapped in American power. People abroad may love the former but they are inevitably suspicious of the latter. And if America falters in its appli
cation of its ideals, people around the world will believe that they are simply a smoke screen for its power. Call it the fate of empire.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: ZAKARIA, FAREED; SCHAMA, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) INDIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: HISTORY OF BRITAIN, A (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



603 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: FOOD; 
Water Babies

BYLINE:  By Jonathan Reynolds

 BODY:
If you want to know how to capture the rapt attention of five redheads ranging in age from 2 to 16, take them 45 minutes by boat from the high-end Solstrand Fjord Hotel just outside Bergen, Norway, across the Bjornafjord to the island of Tysnesoy. This is where Eystein Michalsen and Nina Havn have set up a deliriously rustic retreat called Kubbervik. Eystein will take all the redheads out on a boat, yank in the nets he has laid the night before and, with luck, bring in a couple of cod (one weighing more than 12 pounds and worthy of gasps from several would-be Cousteaus) together with dozens of red and clear jellyfish, about which he will claim, "These are not good." He will then gut the cod to the wonder of all, describing each of the organs as he goes along, and toss the inedibles back into the fiord, where they'll be immediately divebombed by a trio of friendly seagulls and one graceful tern. Game Boys and Walkmen will be silenced and earphones pocketed as the kids (and, I might as well admit it, another 10 or so adults) will be transfixed by his surgical skill in filleting the cod, which he does in under two minutes. Who would have thought marine biology so much fun? 
 Red and I traveled to Norway with her family -- three children, her mother, two sisters, their spouses and children and so many cousins, aunts and assorted friends that I began to feel like Sir Joseph Porter aboard the H.M.S. Pinafore. The number, I think, got as high as 26, and in 10 days never fell below 11. 
 Red is mother to two redheads and the aunt to three. The occasion was the 60th birthday of her brother-in-law, Sven, and it was a logistical undertaking worthy of Joel Silver going on location. Sven is a native Norwegian, though he grew up on the Kenai Peninsula of Alaska and lived in Seattle from the age of 6, and he and Barbara, Red's sister, had arranged an exhaustive -- though mercifully voluntary -- schedule of excursions to acquaint us with several high points of his homeland. Many of these included indigenous food, and there is little that five redheads greet with more apprehension than victuals that stray from the domestic familiars of burgers and 'zza. So Eystein and Nina had their work cut out for them.
If you're lucky, you'll be able to visit Kubbervik, which is open from April through November, when it's overcast or rainy; if you're blessed by an even higher power, you'll get to see it when the sun is out. Approaching its wood boathouse in a drizzle, we could see a long pine table laid for lunch, the candles of the silver candelabra blazing like a scene from "Babette's Feast."
Eystein, who is handsome enough, and Nina, who is the paradigm of the Norwegian knockout, are married, and for four years, the former economist and the advertising executive have been reconstructing four cottages that sleep a total of 20 -- none with electricity, and, oh, there is no road -- for vacation hideaways that authentically replicate the primeval Norwegian countryside.
At the moment, the complex of six buildings -- two of them dismantled at another location, transported here, then rebuilt -- are rented out for corporate bonding and "team spirit" retreats. But we were the only ones retreating that day, and even in the light rain, the food, walks and miniature fishing adventures were comfy.
Even those who seriously don't like fish -- four out of five redheads, one of whom had proclaimed "I'm not eating fish!" the day before we left New York, and another who tossed off, "I don't do fish" -- were swayed by the chowder that Eystein and Nina made for lunch: just stock, white wine, cream, butter and the previous day's catch of flounder, pollock and cod. We looked out over Bjornafjord (bjorne means bear) as the rain softly plinked the surface, and it couldn't have been more familial, safe as we all were under our sloping tile roof, with candles, strengthening soup and fortifying white Burgundy. 
The kids, of course, eschewed soup superlatives and eventually grew restless, leaving the table to explore the grounds as the rest of us curled up like slugs for naps in front of the fireplace in the main house or delved into some of the hundreds of books (many in English) from a birch bookcase nearby. Eystein took me on a brief tour of the house. "I just made those beds," he said, pointing proudly to two brightly painted blue wood pedestals lying foot to head, with protective gingerbread cutouts that prevent sleepers from rolling off and busting their pates. 
Concerned about dinner, Eystein shipped out once more, scraped a few mussels from rocks nearby and began preparations for our seafood feast. As the afternoon progressed, the ever-inventive redheads started a game of charades, cheating wildly by adult standards. ("No, no, it's a movie." "No, no, it's 'Malcolm in the Middle.' ")
In the kitchen, Nina sauteed fresh, fat scallops in a little butter, removed them and made a simple but exquisite saffron sauce by adding a little stock, cream and a few pink peppercorns for color. Eystein dipped monkfish chunks into an elemental flour batter for quick sauteeing. I've never subscribed to the marketers' description of monkfish as the "poor man's lobster" -- it's like the Chicken Liver Council claiming its product is Gonzo's rib-eye for those who can't afford it. I usually find it combative in texture and only mildly toothsome. If you see a whole monkfish at the market, you'll find its massive mouth scarier than a shark's. Apparently it sits on the bottom of the ocean, opens its Godzilla jaws and waits for poor unsuspecting fishies to swim right into it, not unlike the latest recipients of W's capital-gains cuts. So it has in common with lobster only reprehensibility of character. 
But Eystein had the novel idea of freezing it first -- even though it had been netted the day before -- to improve its texture, which indeed it did. Perhaps this technique should be used on all passive-aggressives, human or piscine: freeze them first, then cut them into pieces.
As everyone assembled at another long dinner table, activity in the kitchen increased, and the spirit grew jolly. Nina's team of attractive high-school girls bearded the mussels, and Eystein steamed them simultaneously with fistfuls of toothpick asparagus. He poached two-inch cubes of the newly gutted cod in lightly lemoned and salted water, simmering them for a brief two to three minutes as Nina decorated each plate with superb wild salmon that had been juniper-smoked locally. It is more intense than Scottish smoked salmon but less blunt than Nova. 
At the dinner table, redheads young and old gathered round. The 12-year-old, a daring eater, zapped around the table begging other people's mussels and racking up 12 or 14 shells on his plate; the 16-year-old fiske-a-phobe moved his scallop around and ultimately slipped it to an uncle, who gulped it down. The younger ones looked suspiciously at their plates and were finally granted hamburgers. But the rest of us feasted and feasted -- mussels, cod, salmon, monkfish, asparagus, the ubiquitous boiled potatoes -- till the last sliver was done. 
It was 9 at night by the time we finished, so naturally, the sun came out and stayed till midnight.

Kubbervik Scallops
3 tablespoons butter
12 fat sea scallops, with coral attached, if possible
Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
1 1/4 cups dry white wine
2 tablespoons fish stock (see recipe)
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
1/4 cup minced chives
Cracked pink peppercorns for garnish.
1. Melt the butter in a large skillet over high heat. Season the scallops with salt and pepper and saute until lightly browned, about 1 minute per side. Remove the scallops and set aside. Pour the butter and liquid that remains into a saucepan. 
2. Add the wine, stock, cream, lemon juice and saffron to the reserved liquid in the saucepan and reduce over medium heat by about half, until you have a rich sauce. Season to taste with salt.
3. Gently reheat the scallops in the sauce and stir in the chives. Serve immediately, sprinkled with the pink peppercorns.
Yield: 4 servings.

Fish Soup for a Rainy Day
4 tablespoons butter
4 tablespoons flour
5 cups fish stock (see recipe)
1 cup dry white wine
1 cup clam juice
1 1/4 cups creme fraiche
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
1 large carrot, peeled and cut into julienne strips
1 small celery root, peeled and cut into julienne strips
5 scallions, green part only, cut into half-inch slices
5 cups spinach leaves, coarsely chopped
1 teaspoon sugar
Salt and freshly ground white pepper to taste
2 pounds skinless, boneless whitefish like cod, flounder, turbot or catfish, cut into 3/4-inch chunks
30 mussels (optional)
3 tablespoons chopped chives.
1. Melt the butter in a large soup pot over medium heat. Stir in the flour and cook, stirring constantly, for 3 minutes. Stir in the fish stock, bring to a boil and boil for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in the wine, clam juice, creme fraiche and cream. Reduce the heat to a simmer.
2. Add the carrot and celery root and cook 2 minutes. Add the scallions, spinach and sugar. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Add the fish (and mussels, if using). Cook for 3 minutes, or until the mussels open. Ladle the soup into bowls, sprinkle with chives and serve immediately.
Yield: 6 servings.

Fish Stock
Bones and trimmings from 1 large white-fleshed fish
1/4 head celery root, rinsed and peeled
1 carrot
1/4 leek, rinsed and chopped Juice of half a lemon
Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste.
1. Rinse the bones and place them and the vegetables into a stockpot. Add 3 quarts of water and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer for 20 minutes, skimming off and discarding any foam that forms on top of the liquid. 
2. Strain the liquid, discard the solids, and return the liquid to the pot. Continue to simmer until the liquid is reduced to 6 cups. Add the lemon juice and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Yield: 6 cups. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A creamy saffron sauce adds luxury to the primal sweetness of scallops with their coral. (Maria Robledo; Food Stylist: Anne Disrude) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE BIOLOGY (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (52%) ALASKA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (52%) NORWAY (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



604 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 7430 words

HEADLINE: Who's A Hero Now? 

BYLINE:  By Jeff Goodell; Jeff Goodell is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He is the author of "Our Story: 77 Hours That Tested Our Friendship and Our Faith."

 BODY:
June 9 was a beautiful spring day in western Pennsylvania. It had been raining much of the week, but that Monday morning the clouds parted, revealing a blue Appalachian sky. Bob Long had plans -- finish remodeling the kitchen, work in the garden, maybe even paint the flower box in the front yard that he'd promised his wife he'd get around to soon. Not that Long was lacking free time. For the past three years, Long, 37, had worked as a surveyor for CME Engineering nearby in Somerset. But several months earlier, he tore his rotator cuff while pounding a surveying stake, and the injury required surgery. He had been off work for about eight weeks, attending physical therapy sessions and catching up on odd jobs around the house. Now Long was eager to get back to work -- back to the routines of ordinary life, which he had been struggling to recapture ever since the events of last summer when, for a brief, hallucinatory moment, he was a hero. 
 A year ago, on July 24, when nine miners in nearby Quecreek cut into an old mine that was flooded with millions of gallons of water, the attention of the nation was transfixed. Miners, of course, have been getting trapped underground for hundreds of years. But this particular melodrama, coming less than a year after 9/11 and so close to the crash site of Flight 93, was as much about redemption and faith as it was about rescuing nine men. And it was Bob Long who, answering a call in the middle of the night, had raced to the scene and used his satellite surveying instruments to pinpoint the spot to drill the crucial first air hole. Had Long miscalculated, the result might well have been nine dead miners. 
 In the aftermath, Long discovered that the life of a hero is not easy. After Disney cut him in on a book-and-movie deal for the miners' story, he found himself shunned by fellow rescuers, as well as by the miners. Long, who could be hot-tempered, had not helped himself by openly criticizing the miners in the media. Still, by June, it seemed that the hard feelings had passed, and Long was back to his confident, talkative self.
That Monday morning, Long got up early to help his wife, Michelle, with breakfast and load their three kids -- Lauren, 8, Lindsay, 6, and Luke, 1 -- into their Chevy TrailBlazer. As usual, Michelle planned to drop them off at her mother's house on her way to work at a local lawyer's office. "As we got ready to leave, Bob was talking and joking around," Michelle recalls. "It was just like any other day."
Long went to a physical-therapy session for his shoulder and then stopped by his mother-in-law's house to visit the kids. Around noon, he stopped in for a beer at the Jenner Rod and Gun Club, an old coal-miner's hangout he frequented, where he ran into a friend in the construction business who needed to cut some rebar. Long told him he had a grinder that would do the job, so the two of them spent the next few hours up at Long's house, cutting steel rods in his garage. "We had a few beers, talked, just normal stuff," his friend recalls. "Bob was his usual happy self. We talked about our families, how much we loved our kids. He took me inside and showed me around his house -- he was doing some remodeling and was proud of it. I left at about 3:30. The last thing Bob said to me was, 'I'm going to go plant some cabbage.' " 
Long never made it out to the garden. What exactly he did during the next few hours is not known. The only thing Michelle is certain of is that when she arrived home with the kids at 5:30 p.m., Long was asleep on the couch. "The kids woke him up," Michelle recalls. "It was time to go to their soccer game. When he got up, he started yelling because he couldn't find any clean socks." Long's father, a former police officer, says that a toxicology report would later show that his blood-alcohol level was .26, more than twice the legal driving limit in Pennsylvania. There was no argument, no big fight, Michelle says. Just the missing socks. Before she was sure what was happening, Long walked out to his Dodge pickup in the driveway, pulled out his 9-millimeter semiautomatic Glock pistol and put it to his head. Michelle followed him outside; the kids remained inside. "I kept saying to him: 'Please, don't do this. Please, don't do this.' I begged him." 
Her voice falls to a barely audible whisper. "Then he just did it." 
A year ago, the rescue of the miners at Quecreek was the biggest news of the summer, a nostalgic tale of brawn and ingenuity and survival set in a small town. It was a story Americans needed to hear at that moment. Terror alerts and anthrax scares had so darkened the mood that the nation sorely needed something to root for. Bill Arnold, the farmer who owns the land where the rescue took place, is now busy transforming the rescue site into a $2.3 million multimedia shrine, complete with 31 larger-than-life statues of rescuers. "This is the site of a real-life miracle, where the prayers of the entire country were answered," Arnold explains. "It should not be forgotten."
For the nine men who were the beneficiaries of those prayers, however, it has been a tough year. When they were lifted out of the mine in that yellow rescue capsule, they were reborn into a different world. For a few days, they were the most famous men in the country, expected to speak in sound bites and show up on time for photo shoots with Annie Leibovitz. (None of the miners had any idea who she was.) To President Bush, they were symbols of "the American spirit"; to blue-collar America, they were forgotten men who labored in the darkness for our daily light and heat; to the church faithful, they were living testimony to God's grace. "After the rescue, people would literally come up to me on the street and ask if they could touch me," Mark Popernack recalls. 
In the aftermath, the miners went out of their way to be humble and to give credit to the hundreds of people who worked so hard to save them. ("The rescuers did all the hard work," Randy Fogle joked. "We were just on extended vacation underground.") But, of course, it was the miners who flew to Nascar races in private jets and were feted at the Governor's Mansion, while many rescuers were lucky to get a chance to tell their story at a Boy Scouts meeting. 
In May, six of the nine miners announced their intention to file a lawsuit against Mincorp, the holding company that owned the Quecreek mine, as well as PBS Coals, a subsidiary. (The companies reject the charges of negligence.) Although any settlement in the suit would come out of the company's $10 million insurance policy, many locals worried that the lawsuit might force the mine to close down, putting dozens of miners out of work. To many in this struggling coal town, it feels like profound ingratitude: "Isn't it enough that they got out alive?" says the wife of one rescue worker. "Why can't they just be grateful, be quiet and go on with their lives?" 
When Bob Long shot himself, some local residents lashed out at the most visible targets -- the miners. It was well known around town that there was no love lost between Long and several of the miners and their wives, even if the details were murky. "I hope the miners and their wives remember for the rest of their lives how Long must have felt the last moments of his life," one reader wrote to the local newspaper. "They are at least partly responsible for his death." Another wrote: "I guess to some people, money is everything, and now a wife and children are without a husband and father because of nothing more than greed."
It was inevitable, of course, that the halos would fall from the miners' heads. They were unreal to begin with. But who would have imagined that such a triumphant American moment would get mixed up so quickly with such tragedy?
Somerset County is only an hour east of Pittsburgh, but it feels like another world: beautiful high rolling hills, dairy farms, white clapboard houses, Wal-Mart. It's in the heart of Pennsylvania's old bituminous-coal country, not far from where Henry Frick, the ruthless 19th-century coke baron and art collector, made his fortune. What's left of the coal here -- most of it has been mined out over the last 130 years -- is soft and sulfurous and, because of increasingly strict air-pollution laws, not much in demand. The remaining mines are mostly nonunion now, and signs of the industry's decline are everywhere: abandoned coal camps, mining equipment rusting in the cornfields, old men with respirators.
During the rescue, Somerset's faded glory only added to the made-for-TV quality of the event. The day after the miners were pulled out of the ground, the weedy field where the rescue had taken place was already a full-blown tourist attraction. People snapped pictures, posing with cranes in the background. Truck drivers hauling out the drill bits and generators waved like Super Bowl champions. Well drillers were treated like holy men. 
I covered the rescue for CNN.com, filing dispatches from the scene, and when I stopped at the site for one last time on my way to the airport, I noticed a man in shorts and sandals leaning against the hood of a red Blazer, watching the crowd. He looked tired and a little wistful. Guessing he was involved in the rescue -- the door of his Blazer said "CME Engineering" -- I introduced myself. He had a thin black moustache, a dark tan and several gold chainsaround his neck. (Friends jokingly referred to them as his "Mr. T starter set.") He said his name was Bob Long, and when I asked what he did, he told me the story of how during the frantic early hours of the rescue he'd used global satellite surveying equipment to plot the first air hole. He didn't make a big deal out of it -- in fact, he was modest and humble, making clear that he was only one of many who had worked to get these guys out of the ground. 
Long and I talked for an hour or so; then I sat in my rental car and wrote a brief account about Long's role in the rescue, which was published on CNN's Web site that night. The accurate but unfortunately grand headline: "The Man Behind the Miracle." 
A week later, I learned that after a Hollywood bidding frenzy, the miners had sold life rights to Disney for a book and a movie for $150,000 each -- a considerable sum, even by Hollywood standards. I signed up to edit the miners' book (which was a separate project from the movie, although we shared research), grateful for the opportunity to write what I hoped would be a short, happy tale of faith and brotherhood.
For Disney, nabbing the miners was a big coup. Its struggling network, ABC, had recently decided to go after the heartland with more traditional family-style shows -- the miners' story, with its working-class characters and heartwarming finale, was a natural for the November sweeps. It wasn't until I returned to Somerset to begin interviewing the miners that I learned Bob Long had also been paid $150,000 for the rights to his story. Disney executives were worried, I was told, that another network might tell the story from the rescuers' point of view, diluting the value and interest of the miners' story. They thought if they signed him up, it might derail a rival project. (They were right.) When I heard about this, I laughed. I thought Bob Long was the luckiest guy in Somerset County. So did Long, initially. As his mother, Linda Christner, recalls, "He phoned me one day and said, 'Mom, do you believe I have to find myself an agent?' " 
For the miners, that first week above ground was surreal. "The day I got home from the hospital, there were 50 TV trucks parked on my street," says Blaine Mayhugh, 32, who, because he is young and handsome, and because he had been trapped with his father-in-law, Tom Foy, was one of the most sought-after miners. Mayhugh's phone rang constantly with sweet-talking reporters, TV bookers, agents and Hollywood producers. "One agent promised me and my father-in-law a million dollars if we'd break away from the other guys and do our own book and movie," Mayhugh recalls. "I told him no way." But Mayhugh did not exactly bolt the doors. The night he was released from the hospital, he agreed to be interviewed by Jane Pauley. Two days later, he and the other guys were on "Dateline NBC"; the day after that, David Letterman flew Mayhugh's entire family to New York and had him on the show. For Mayhugh, the unreality of the whole experience was captured in the price of his hotel suite in Manhattan: $2,000 a night. (Mayhugh's wife saw the bill.) "It was like I was in somebody else's dream," he recalls. 
At the time, the miners had no idea about the circumstances of Long's deal; several were under the mistaken impression that he had somehow wormed his way into it by talking big. A few days after the contract was inked, when Long showed up at a meeting in Pittsburgh to choose a producer for the movie, Missy Phillippi, the outspoken wife of the miner John Phillippi, demanded, "What are you doing here?" Long, who had dressed in a coat and tie for the occasion (he was the only one), shot back, "They called me." 
Over the next few weeks, three of us -- me, Elwood Reid, the screenwriter, and Larry Sanitsky, the executive producer -- visited the miners in their homes. At their kitchen tables, they told us what they had gone through during those 77 hours underground. Many were still in shock. Some wept. Even then, it was clear that the aftermath was going to be tough for these guys.
When we visited Bob Long, there were no tears. He was thrilled to have us in his home, and he tossed five huge steaks on the backyard grill. He lived in a nice gray and white house up on an isolated hill north of Somerset, overlooking a small strip mine. When we walked in, his wife, Michelle -- a shy, attractive woman with long dark hair -- was sitting at the kitchen table, waiting for the daily lottery numbers to come up on TV. The three kids were sprawled nearby.
I hadn't seen Long since that day at the rescue site about six weeks earlier, and I was immediately struck by how different he seemed: at the site, he was somber, all business; here, he was loose, talkative, even a bit of a braggart. I don't remember who drank what, but we brought a couple bottles of wine, and there was plenty of beer in the cooler.
Long clearly was not impressed by the miners. The way I understood it, it wasn't anything personal -- he just thought the mining companies lied to them and mistreated them, and he didn't understand why they didn't stick up for themselves. It was also clear that there were vast social and cultural differences between Long and the miners. He was a Californian; they were local boys. He was a child of divorce; they came from determinedly traditional families. He worked with his head; they worked their backs. He sometimes dreamed of leaving rural Pennsylvania and living somewhere warmer; they had been rooted here for generations and could imagine living nowhere else. 
When it came time to translate Long's actions onto the screen, his big moment was reduced to less than a page in the script. (In the book, he didn't get much more.) If this disappointed him, though, he didn't show it. When his scene was shot in a cornfield in late September, Long showed up to lend a hand. But seeing the rescue recreated brought back a lot of intense feelings. "At one point, he had to walk away from the set," Michelle says. "It was just too much for him." 
About a week later, just after the filming in Pennsylvania was finished, The Washington Post ran an article about tensions in the aftermath of the rescue, focusing largely on the jealousy between Long and the miners. Tom Foy told the reporter, "I don't understand why the hell he got the same amount as we did." In response, Long, whose jaw, the reporter writes, "twitched with rage" when he talked about the miners, replied, "You know what, you bastards, I saved your goddamn life and you still don't acknowledge it." It was a crass and self-destructive thing to say. But Long was voicing some of the frustration felt by other rescuers, some of whom were tired of seeing the miners treated like royalty while their hard work was overlooked. Long later claimed he had been misquoted and even contacted a lawyer about suing for libel before deciding to let it go.
It wasn't just the miners, however, who were giving Long grief. Many of his fellow rescuers had their own issues with him. "Hundreds of people worked three days straight to get those guys out of the mine," one local volunteer fireman told me. "A couple of guys collapsed from exhaustion. And this clown is the one who gets $150,000? Where is the fairness in that?"
Not long after the article came out, Long called a miner named Bob Pugh. Pugh and Long lived near each other in the hills outside of Somerset, and Pugh's family is close with Long's wife's family. As Pugh recalls, Long told him that he had been misquoted and was sorry about it. "I said, 'Yeah, that's the way the media is,' " Pugh told him. "He seemed pretty upset about it. But I said to him: 'Hey, don't worry about it. The media blows it all up.' " Pugh called a couple of the other miners to tell them that Long had apologized. "None of us thought it was a big deal," Pugh says now. 
In mid-November, Sanitsky, the executive producer, held a party at the Inn at Georgian Place, a stately old coal-baron's mansion in Somerset, to preview the movie for the miners before the network broadcast. When I arrived a few hours before the screening, Long was already there, looking a little chubbier than he had last time I saw him, dressed in jeans, a flannel shirt and a baseball cap. We talked for a half-hour or so. He was polite, subdued. Several of us who met him that night had the feeling that he deeply regretted the comments he had made to The Post and was, in fact, openly contrite about it. When it was time for the miners to arrive, Long took a copy of the DVD and headed for the door. 
Blaine Mayhugh learned about Long's suicide almost immediately. "I was shocked," Mayhugh says now, sitting in the living room of his small but cozy house in Meyersdale. "I hardly knew who he was -- I think I spoke to him once at a barbecue at the Governor's Mansion, and that was all." Mayhugh was well aware of the jealousy and bitterness that was erupting in private between Long and some of the other miners and rescuers. "I guess the stress really got to him." 
When he says this, Mayhugh gives me a hard stare, which I take to mean "I've been there too." I'm taken aback by this -- I expected maybe a dose of guilt from Mayhugh but not empathy. At least not of this sort. Not that Mayhugh has ever contemplated putting a gun to his head, as he later tells me, but he has had plenty of dark moments since the rescue: depression, loneliness, loss of memory, migraine headaches, sleeplessness and, lately, sounds from the mine invading his dreams -- dripping water, the noise of the drill boring down at them from above, echoing voices. In Mayhugh's light blue eyes, you can see an unsteadiness, a worry. This is a man who is still figuring things out. Not much of a churchgoer before the accident, he was recently baptized and now attends a Pentecostal church. 
I'm surprised by Mayhugh's troubles because, of all the guys, I thought he would be the one who put all this behind him the quickest. He never loved working in the mines to start with, and he seemed intensely grateful to have a chance to start a new life. He is also the one miner with star quality: he has a boyish, bratty, bright-eyed charm, and after the rescue, he handled himself well on TV. Not surprisingly, he's one of the most requested miners on the corporate speaking circuit; he has given several pep talks to Microsoft employees, as well as to workers at Sam's Club and U.S. Smokeless Tobacco. But so far, his face has not turned up on cereal boxes. "The big endorsements have just not been there," says Steve Reich, who handles the miners' publicity. Reich is at a loss to explain why, except to say that the economy is bad and America has a short attention span.
"My main goal right now," Mayhugh says determinedly, "is just to try to putall this behind me and get my regular life back."
It has not been easy. Like many of the miners, Mayhugh has been seeing a therapist once a week ever since the rescue. He's also on Paxil, an antidepressant. Still, last March, he believed he was ready to go back to work. A few months earlier, a motivational speech he'd given at U.S. Smokeless Tobacco had so impressed executives that they offered him a job as a local tobacco rep, driving around to stores in his area to make sure they were stocked up on chew. It paid well, $35,000 a year, and at first, Mayhugh was thrilled. 
But he didn't turn out to be ready. The stress of keeping regular hours, of updating inventory on a laptop (which he'd never used before) and, most of all, of being away from home one or two nights a week was too much. "I broke out into hives; I couldn't sleep; I'd forget things," Mayhugh says.
His wife, Leslie, listens thoughtfully. She has just returned from the store with their 8-year-old daughter, Kelsey. "I'd catch him sitting here, just staring out at the wall," she says. Kelsey flips the TV on and watches cartoons. "He was so stressed out. We were fighting a lot."
Mayhugh quit the job, and today the Mayhughs live mostly on their $1,700 a month in workman's comp. (Although that could end soon; the coal company is suing to have the Disney money, as well as speaking fees, offset their compensation payments.) Like most of the other miners' families, the Mayhughs were sensible with their windfall. They paid off their home, bought a new truck and -- Blaine's one indulgence -- a new fishing boat. 
Although Mayhugh says he's grateful for the parades and festivities held in their honor in the months after the rescue, he has had enough of small-town celebrity. "Because people have seen me on TV, they think they have the right to ask me all kinds of questions," Mayhugh says. "The other day, a guy walked up to me on the street and said, 'Hey, Blaine, you working yet?' No hello, no nothing. I couldn't believe it." 
Of all the miners, Mayhugh may be the one who is most interested in understanding what really happened in the Quecreek mine that night and determining who, if anyone, is responsible. Was the breakthrough simply an accident, as the coal company contends, or the result of corporate negligence? In a widely ridiculed preliminary report of an investigation by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection that was released last November, the breakthrough was essentially blamed on an old map and a dead mine inspector. 
"We're not sue-happy people," Mayhugh argues. "But nine guys almost died because of the coal company's greed and negligence." 
With that, Mayhugh jumps up from the couch and runs upstairs to his bedroom. He returns with his night-table reading -- the transcript of a Senate hearing held last October by Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. Mayhugh opens to an exchange between Senator Specter and David Rebuck, the president of Black Wolf Coal Company, which was contracted to mine the coal at Quecreek. At issue is the key question of whether Rebuck knew that the adjacent Saxman mine was flooded with millions of gallons of water. "If they knew," says Howard Messer, the Pittsburgh attorney who is handling the miners' lawsuit, "then the question becomes, 'What reasonable precautions should they have taken to ensure the miners' safety?' "
It's hard to fathom how Rebuck and others could claim they did not know the mine was flooded. When the permit was issued for the Quecreek mine in 1999, 41 complaints were filed, largely based on worries that new mining would drain the old Saxman mine (which local residents used for drinking water). According to the local newspaper, tests were done on the site to determine the water level. Even more damning is a mine progress map filed in March 2002, four months before the accident, by the Quecreek Mining Company (of which Rebuck had been an officer), which labels the old mine "flooded." 
Mayhugh reads aloud:

SENATOR SPECTER: With respect to the water, were you aware of the information Mr. Messer testified to, that the homeowners above Saxman were getting the water from that property?
MR. REBUCK: I am now, sir, yes.
SENATOR SPECTER: But had you been prior to July 24?
MR. REBUCK: On the night of July 24, after the accident occurred, I was aware, yes.
SENATOR SPECTER: How about prior to July 24, to the extent you wish to answer?
MR. REBUCK: I cannot say for sure if I was.
SENATOR SPECTER: Might have?
MR. REBUCK: I might have.
SENATOR SPECTER: Might have?
MR. REBUCK: I do not know.
SENATOR SPECTER: Think about it for just a minute, Mr. Rebuck, to the extent you want to answer. What leads you to say you might have? What is going through your mind that leads you to that statement?
MR. REBUCK: Because I do know that now, and I'm not sure if I did know that before or if this was afterward.
Mayhugh drops the transcript on the coffee table and gives a tortured laugh. "Why can't the guy just give a straight answer?" he asks. "For the five years I worked in the mines, I trusted my life to that company."
It's a Wednesday afternoon, and I'm at the bar in the Jenner Rod and Gun Club with three of Long's best friends, including Michael Hemminger, the acting president of the club. It's in an old cut-stone building close to the highway; inside, there's wood paneling, a pool table, deer heads and a nudie calendar. 
Earlier, Hemminger had shown me a couple of pictures of Long that he'd brought along, including one of him with Hemminger and two friends at a charity golf tournament. They all look goofy and happy, wearing tie-dyed shirts and posing with their drivers. There is much talk about Long's beautiful swing and about how upbeat he seemed last time they saw him. 
"How did Bob feel about his role in the rescue?" I ask.
"He was modest about it," Hemminger replies. "He always told me, 'I was just doing my job.' "
"Do you think his conflicts with the miners and rescuers bothered him much?"
"He never said anything about it to me," Hemminger says with a shrug.
"Me, either," another friend adds.
"Marital problems?" I ask.
"Nah," Hemminger says. "He loved Michelle, and he loved his kids."
After several beers, it's clear that whatever was troubling Long, he didn't discuss it with his friends. Which is not surprising. The club is a temple of denial. Still, it's obvious that Long was beloved. At one point, Hemminger buys us all a round of black sambuca -- Long's favorite. "To our friend Bob," he says. We toast, drink it down. Tears well in their eyes.
Long's mother is not surprised that her son didn't open up to his friends. "Bob was a very private person," says Christner, who works as a travel agent in Florida. "When things were bothering him, he didn't talk about it much to anyone -- except me."
According to Christner, divorce played a large role in shaping her son's intensely private character. The family moved from Southern California to Pennsylvania when Long was 13 because "his father's family was from there, and his father believed it was a good place to raise children," Christner says. Three years later, Long's father walked out. To support Long and his younger brother, Christner worked three jobs. "Bob knew how hard it was on me, and he tried to help me by becoming very protective," his mother says. "He built up this facade, this macho thing, like, 'I can handle anything.' But it was only a coverup for the more sensitive person inside." 
Christner believes that Long's conflict with the miners and other rescuers bothered him a great deal. How could it not? Long was smart enough to know that by insulting the miners in a national newspaper, he was picking a fight that he could never win. Nevertheless, when I delicately suggest that it's a long way from a spat in the press with the miners to suicide, Christner replies sharply, "Then you haven't lived in a small town, have you?" 
Vaughn Donaldson, district chief of the fire department in Midland, Tex., knows very well the stress that traumatic events, combined with sudden celebrity, can put on people. In the years after the rescue of baby Jessica from the well in Texas, Donaldson watched the man who saved her, Robert O'Donnell, become a national hero, before declining into substance abuse; seven years after the rescue, he shot himself. There have also been suicides among rescuers at Oklahoma City and the World Trade Center. "Whenever you elevate one person as a hero, you necessarily leave others out, and that leads to jealousy and alienation," says Donaldson, who speaks to fire and police departments all over the country. "It sounds petty, but it can be tremendously stressful and damaging." 
During one late-night conversation, Christner tells me that not long after the article in The Post appeared, a group of men marched up the driveway of her son's house and threatened him. "He had also received death threats on the phone," Christner adds. "People grabbed him in public. Other things may have happened, too, that we don't know about. But then a few months ago, Bob just stopped talking about it. I don't think he wanted to worry me or Michelle." At this point, Christner begins to sob. "Bob was my boy . . . he always wanted to protect us from everything." 
A few days before Long shot himself, he said to Michelle: "I wish I'd never been involved with any of this. I wish they'd called some other guy." 
The only miner who went by the funeral home to see Long's body was Bob Pugh. He did it partly out of respect for Long and partly because he is the kind of man who honors suffering. Pugh, the only practicing Catholic of the nine, is as deeply rooted in the soil of western Pennsylvania as the big hickory trees in his backyard; the men in his family have been coal miners since the glory days of the black rock. Pugh himself had more time in the mines than anyone else on the crew -- more than 31 years. 
Like most of the guys, Pugh is not quite as buff today as he was when he was working underground. When he answers his front door one recent morning, he is wearing only plaid shorts and a silver chain with his medallion of St. Hubert, the patron saint of hunting, dangling on his chest. As he leads me through his spotless kitchen, Pugh pats his widening gut. "Put on 20 pounds," he says. "Pants don't fit anymore." 
When I met Pugh last year, he was brighter and livelier, with a deadpan sense of humor. He joked about the other guys in the mine, his bachelor life (although he has had a long-term relationship with his girlfriend, Cindy), his obsession with turkey hunting. He's hunting more than ever now -- he bagged a beautiful 24-pounder in Ohio this year -- but he doesn't talk about it with the same simple joy he did last year. 
"You seem very mellow," I tell him.
"It's the pills," he says, referring to his daily dose of Paxil. He says he gets anxiety attacks frequently and still has trouble sleeping. Talking to Pugh, I'm reminded of what a profound change coming out of the mines has been for all these guys. It was hard, dangerous work, but there was also camaraderie, structure, a daily challenge, satisfying labor. Now they all have oceans of time -- time for hunting and family, but also for worries and regrets and introspection. 
Pugh is also one of the six miners involved in the lawsuit against the coal company, but unlike Mayhugh, he does not seem particularly passionate about the pursuit of justice. "I'm just going along with the majority," he says quietly. 
Pugh says it didn't bother him at all that Bob Long got $150,000. "The more the merrier, as far as I'm concerned." 
"Did Bob's death mess you up?" I ask. 
"Not too much," Pugh replies, although his eyes say otherwise. After a moment, he looks out the window, pointing to the tree-covered hill across the street. "Bob's house was right up there," he says, lost in private regrets. "You can almost see it from here." 
At twilight on a warm summer evening, Tom Foy hoists himself out of his new above-ground swimming pool at his home outside of Berlin, a few miles south of Somerset. He's 53, a friendly fireplug of a man with fading tattoos of swords and serpents on his shoulders. Foy spent almost 30 years in the mines, and until last year, he still seemed like the kind of guy who could dig through a brick wall. Tonight, however, he seems edgy, almost fragile. "I'm trying to confront my fears here, buddy," he tells me. "I'm not about to let this thing get the best of me."
Ever since he spent those three days trapped in the mine, Foy has been petrified of water -- especially running water. "I can't go near a stream, buddy. I break out in a panic, feel like I'm going to pass out," he says, running his hand through his short hair, his entire body twitching at the mere mention of water. "But I'm getting a little better." Before he takes his grandson fishing in his new canoe -- one of Foy's great pleasures in life -- he installs big pontoons on it so he's sure it won't tip. 
Recently, the surgeon general reported that when people are exposed to a traumatic event -- "rape, combat, natural disaster or concentration camp" -- about 9 percent will develop some form of post-traumatic-stress syndrome. The response varies based on genetic and biological factors, as well as the magnitude of the event and the quality of care afterward. Symptoms range from mild anxiety to complete emotional breakdown. "Stress, that's what the doctors say I got," says Foy, who served 15 months as a gunner in Vietnam. "Hell, yes, I got stress. If you would have been in that hole and seen the water coming up, you'd have it too."
I gesture to piles of dirt on the hillside beyond the pool. On the way in, I'd noticed a tractor in his driveway. "Looks like you've been busy with the backhoe." 
Foy's wife, Denise, who is swaying in a porch swing nearby, says: "It's his therapy. He likes to dig. He's out there all hours of the day and night." 
Foy runs his fingers through his hair and explains, "I like to keep busy." He says he bought the backhoe with his Disney money, thinking he might use it to go into business in the future. "Right now, I'm working on a stone wall for the pool," he says. "I got a few other projects going. I don't like sitting around much." 
Later, Foy shows me his prescriptions: pills for his heart condition;Celexa, an antidepressant to keep him steady ("Paxil wasn't strong enough," he says); if he gets really cranked up, he has lorazepam, an antianxiety drug. At night, he has given up sleeping pills -- he finds that three beers work better. Still, he's up a lot. "I'm eager to go back to work, but the doctors are telling me it'll be at least a year." 
When I mention Bob Long, Foy shifts in his chair, visibly uncomfortable. "What would bring a boy to do a thing like that?" he says. "I don't understand it. To do something like that, you have to have something loose in the head."
"Did you ever talk to him?" I ask.
"Just hello, that kind of thing. Just saw him a few times. I knew some of his family; they live around here."
Foy rubs his head again, fidgets.
"Tell him about the phone call we got," Denise says from the lounge.
"It was nothing," Foy says, irritated.
"All right, I'll tell him," she says. "The day after Bob Long shot himself, a woman called here at the house. Our daughter picked up the phone. 'Is this the home of Tom Foy?' the woman on the line wanted to know. When my daughter said yes, she said, 'He should hold a gun to his head and do what Bob Long did.' Then she hung up."
Foy waves his hand dismissively. "Ah," he says, "we got some crazy people around here. I wouldn't make too much of it."
The only thing that gets Foy more worked up than talking about Bob Long is talking about the lawsuit against the coal company, which he is enthusiastically a part of. "I feel no pity
for a company like PBS," Foy says. "They almost killed nine guys. If they can't get a safer workplace than that, they shouldn't be in business."
Before I leave, Foy takes me into his small study downstairs, where he keeps his Quecreek memorabilia: photographs of him with President Bush and the Nascar star Jeff Gordon, poems and songs written for the miners by strangers, a hard hat hand-painted with an image of the rescue scene and, on the stairway, a signed picture from Oprah. Foy's eyes widen with amazement as he shows me around, as if he still can't quite believe this all really happened to him. "Amazing stuff, isn't it, buddy?" 
Several thousand feet down in the Quecreek mine, in a section called One Left, there is a small wooden stick on the ground. Randy Fogle sometimes passes it on his way to other sections of the mine. The stick hasn't moved since Fogle put it there when they were trapped in the mine. It marked the line between life and death -- had the water come up over it, it meant they were going to drown. "When I go by it, sometimes I stop for a minute, you know, and think about what we went through," Fogle says one morning, his hair askew, the wrinkles around his eyes embedded with faint particles of coal dust. "But then I move on."
Of the nine guys who were trapped, Fogle is the only one who has gone underground again. He's working in the same mine, with the same bosses, for the same company. Today, he's a foreman. "I love what I do," Fogle says. "I think if I couldn't be a coal miner, I'd go crazy. It's in my blood."
Fogle looks much the same as he did a year ago. He's 45, a big blue-eyed bear of a man, well over 200 pounds, who walks with a pronounced limp. When I first met him, he seemed too big and ungainly to be of much use in a coal mine, where the roof is so low you have to work on your hands and knees. But while researching the book, I had a chance to go underground with Fogle. As soon as we abandoned sunlight, he came alive, chattering about the condition of the walls and roof, his eyes shining in the glow of my miner's lamp. For a big man, he moved with astonishing grace underground, using his miner's pick as a prop, duck-walking so quickly and smoothly that it was impossible for me to keep up.
Initially, his wife, Annette, was against his returning to the mine. A warm, well-read woman with brown hair and owlish glasses, she is from a mining family herself; her grandfather was killed in a cave-in. And after the close call at Quecreek, she was having no more of it. But how do you keep a man from doing what he loves? And are the dangers in the mine any worse than the dangers of living a life you don't enjoy? "After about five months, it was clear that Randy had to go back in," Annette says. "It was either that, or we both were going to go crazy."
Fogle says that if any of the men had died in there, he never would have gone back. "I gave it a lot of thought, and at a certain point, I just realized I had to move on. If I didn't. . . . " Fogle's voice trails off. "I don't know."
Mark Popernack had a similar experience. Like Fogle, he loves everything about coal mining -- the smell of the earth, the powerful machines, the camaraderie in the darkness. And like Fogle, he was planning to go back -- until one day his 11-year-old son, Lucas, overheard him talking about it with his wife, Sandy. "Lucas got upset and just ran from the room," Popernack tells me. "That night, he had nightmares. So I said, 'To hell with it.' " Recently, Popernack started a job at PBS Coals, overseeing their yards around Somerset. "I'll still be around coal," he says. "Just not underground." 
It may not be a coincidence that Popernack and Fogle, the two men who loved their jobs, are the two miners having the least trouble readjusting to ordinary life. Neither has trouble sleeping, takes medication or sees a therapist. Asked why, Fogle shrugs. "We all deal with this in our own way," he says. This is not to say that Fogle is an unchanged man. "Before the accident," Annette says, "he was a coal miner first and a family man second. Now he's a family man first and a coal miner second. A few weeks ago, he actually took our anniversary off -- that never would have happened before."
Fogle didn't know Bob Long -- they never spoke, except to say hello at a couple of events. When I called Fogle a few days after Long's death, he seemed genuinely broken up about it. If small-town life can be cruel at times, it can also be forgiving, and the sad truth is that whatever hard feeling there were between Long and the miners and rescuers probably could have been resolved over a beer at the Rod and Gun Club. For Fogle, the lesson in Long's suicide is the danger of clinging to the past. "When I talk to the other guys, I always tell them: 'You gotta move on. If you don't, it'll kill you.' " 
As for the lawsuit, Fogle is reluctant to talk much about it, but he remains convinced that what happened at Quecreek was nobody's fault. "I haven't seen any evidence that the coal company knowingly put our lives in danger," he says, "and until I do, I'm not going to sue anybody." It may be, however, that keeping his job is as much on Fogle's mind as the weight of evidence: if he sues, what future does he have as a coal miner? Popernack, who also declined to participate in the lawsuit, is even more dismissive: "I'm not naive about what happened. I'm just grateful."
Mayhugh and others argue that gratitude is not the point -- accountability is. There's strong evidence that the coal company, at the very least, should have known the old mine was flooded and that the maps they were using were unreliable. Simple precautions, like drilling exploratory holes to locate the exact border of the flooded mine, might have easily prevented the breakthrough. "Other coal operators do it all the time," says Joseph Main, head of mine safety for the United Mine Workers of America. "Why didn't they do it at Quecreek? Because it costs money, probably." Ultimately, it may be up to a jury to decide whether what happened at Quecreek was an accident or the result of a reckless operation. But for Mayhugh and the other miners involved in the lawsuit, the more difficult question may be whether holding the coal company's feet to the fire on this is worth the risk of reliving the experience over and over again, until it not only defines their lives, it consumes them as well. 
The lawsuit would be much harder to justify if state and federal investigations inspired more confidence. But seven months after releasing a preliminary draft, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection has still not released the final results of its investigation, and neither has the federal Mining Safety and Health Administration. A state grand jury has been selected to look into possible criminal charges, but no results have been announced. 
Efforts to reform mining laws are also stalled. Of the 48 mine-safety recommendations made by a "blue ribbon" panel appointed by Mark Schweiker, then the governor, not one has yet been enacted. "Despite all the talk, nothing has changed," says Main, the head of the miners' union. "And unfortunately, without pressure and public scrutiny that will result from the lawsuit, probably nothing will." 
On this sunny July afternoon at the Fogles' house, however, none of this feels too urgent. The events of the past year seem almost eerily distant. There are no pictures of Oprah or the president on the wall, no painted hard hats, no handwritten poems about miners rising into the light. Just a simple framed drawing of the nine guys and a model train loaded with coal from the Quecreek mine. The quiet rhythms of small-town life feel undisturbed: Fogle's 16-year-old daughter, Brittany, is sitting in the kitchen, her nose buried in "The Da Vinci Code"; Annette is beaming because she finally got her vegetable garden planted. At about 1 o'clock, Fogle rises stiffly out of his recliner -- the everyday aches and pains of a coal miner are back with a vengeance -- to get changed for work. He's on second shift again, 2 p.m. to 10 p.m., just as he was the night of the breakthrough. 
A few minutes later, Fogle reappears, wearing a sooty baseball cap and carrying his lunch in a plastic shopping bag. In an hour, he'll be crouched in the comforting darkness of the Quecreek mine, talking with his buddies about buck hunting this fall and doing his best to escape the ghost of Bob Long, the lawsuit, the cameras and the memories of those 77 hours when he stared death in the eye. "I think of my life as a book," Fogle told me before he left. "The accident was one chapter. Now I'm on to the next." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Long was the only rescuer to get cut in on the movie deal. (Wally Long); Tom Foy developed a dread of water after the acident. He is now able, however, to wade in his above-ground pool; Blaine Mayhugh, age 32, was the youngest in the mine. He is also the most passionate about the lawsuit.; Bob Pugh was Long's neighbor, and the only miner to visit the funeral home.; Randy Fogle, unlike the other eight, returned to work the Quecreek mine. (Ann Weathersby for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINE WORKERS (77%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



605 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: A Road Map of Her Own 

BYLINE:  By DYAN ZASLOWSKY; DYAN ZASLOWSKY lives in Denver.

 BODY:
MY visit to Tel Aviv in late May began with a bang at a sophisticated cafe when I swung off my backpack and knocked over a chair. The chair hit the stone floor with such a sharp crack it stopped conversation at nearby tables, and I do not think I imagined that there was an instant when patrons looked poised to run for cover or the door. In that same moment they must also have discerned that I was klutzy but not dangerous, and animatedly picked up the pieces of their sentences. I was so embarrassed I wanted to slink out of the country, which would have been a shame since there are not many of my kind in Israel these days. 
 Israelis, not tourists, peopled the cafe that night. All the disturbances more deadly than the one I made have eviscerated the country's travel economy, slashing it by 60 percent in the last three years. On account of the Palestinian uprising -- or the situation, as Israelis euphemistically call it -- big hotels loom like abandoned citadels against the night. In the artists' maze of Jaffa many chic galleries are sealed behind harlequin-patterned iron gates. The Arab souk in the Old City of Jerusalem that teemed with sightseers and shoppers when I last visited 31 years ago is almost deserted now, and near it, the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, resplendent in tiny mosaic and gold leaf, greets few. 
Anxiety about suicide bombers in Israel is so strong that even free youth tours from the United States are hard pressed to fill spaces. But fear, I quickly discovered, was far more palpable outside Israel than in it. "They must pump some anesthetizing agent into the planes when they land at Ben-Gurion Airport," joked one friend who has remained a staunch Israel traveler. 
 For part of my two-week vacation I traveled with a group of five that included my sister Nina and my daughter Hilary. Our primary security measure was to hire a guide who drove us around the country in a bulletproof van and escorted us almost everywhere. 
 Our driving trip coincided with President Bush's hopeful pronouncements in Aqaba, Jordan, and we felt as safe in Israel as we do in the United States -- except when we encountered reckless Israeli drivers, who hurt more people than Palestinian suicide bombers do. We saw Israelis going to cafes, throngs of them dancing on the beach, riding buses, attending soccer matches and publicly celebrating holidays. Young soldiers toting M-16's, and guards who search bags at the entrance to malls and hotels create an atmosphere of calm alertness, not heightened anxiety. The Israelis we met seem to shrug off fear.
 Hilary had just completed a college semester in Paris where she sampled nihilism served up with espresso at doily-size tables, and was moved to generalize about the difference between the French national mood she had experienced and the Israeli one. In France nothing matters because we will all die anyway, she said. In Israel everything matters for the same reason. 
 Since everything matters the smallest gestures must also count, though they are seldom reported by news media programmed to lead with disaster. Throughout the trip I felt that the silent accumulation of small kindnesses led to something quite extraordinary. We experienced so many situations suggesting that both sides just wanted to get along that we actually thought peace might break out any minute. 
 Consider a few examples. Our guide, Moshe, is planning an interdenominational tour from Israel to Iraq this fall; large signs on the Tel Aviv beach proclaim "Go in Peace" inEnglish, Arabic and Hebrew. Where the Sea of Galilee laps tranquilly at the rock shore beneath the Church of the Primacy of St. Peter, a large group of South Koreans -- who even now fill Israel's tour buses -- sang sweet hymns. And outside the Jaffa Gate in Jerusalem an Arab woman was nursing her baby in a retreating patch of shade. She had one palm outstretched, and while I fished money out of my pack an Orthodox Jew in a long black coat and black hat came along. He reached into his pocket and pulled out a few shekels, placing them gently in the woman's hand and then quickly walked on. 
 That night the Jewish holiday of Shavuot, commemorating the giving of the Torah, would begin. As is customary I planned to stay up late and study Jewish text, but I had trouble finding the address of the yeshiva I wanted to go to. Two Arab employees at my hotel offered to help by looking in the Jerusalem phone book with me. Yussef thumbed through the pages under the Hebrew letter yud, and marveled at how many yeshivas there were in the city. 
 Even business has had its modest successes. After the Palestinian uprising began in September 2000, Baruch Hadaya thought he might have to close his tiny jewelry shop in the Jewish Quarter of the Old City because there were no customers for his costly custom gold and diamond pieces. But now Mr. Hadaya, a secular Jew, is better off than he was before, thanks to a craving for his wares among hundreds of Orthodox yeshiva girls. 
 When his high-end trade disappeared Mr. Hadaya began inscribing inexpensive silver rings with a single saying in Hebrew that, depending on the situation, can instantly make a person happy or sad: "This too shall pass," it reads, rescuing Mr. Hadaya and his shop, at least for the time being. The yeshiva girls still stream in to buy these rings and listen to Mr. Hadaya's stories, returning to purchase more rings and bracelets with Hebrew quotes of their own choosing. "This too shall pass" sums up the ache of joy and sorrow travelers encounter in Israel whenever they go, and the fleeting obligation to partake of both. 
 Peace is not only the absence of war but also the balancing of conflicting interests, according to some Jewish scholars. On Shavuot, which this year coincided with the Muslim Sabbath, we saw what that balance already looks like. Hilary and I and two friends woke before dawn to walk to the Kotel, or Western Wall, joining tens of thousands of Jews who moved fearlessly through the dim and shuttered Arab souk to enter the sprawling square in front of the wall.
 From the back of the women's section I watched a sea of swaying men in black davening and singing as the sun climbed the Temple Mount, softly illuminating the Kotel and the gold and silver orbs of the Dome of the Rock and Al Aksa Mosque. 
 Most Jews left the Old City well before noon to go home and sleep. After we napped we went back to explore further, stopping at a cafe owned by a Palestinian for tall glasses of freshly squeezed orange juice. Our guide drove out of the Old City and then headed east. We crept along the narrow road that runs through the Kidron Valley because of the heavy incoming pedestrian and car traffic. Before us was a gathering sea of Muslims bound for Al Aksa. It was their turn to pray. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Selcuk Demirel) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); BEACHES (69%); AIRPORTS (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); SOCCER (50%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: ZASLOWSKY, DYAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (79%); FRANCE (71%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



606 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: North by Northeast, An Inn by the River 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT; DAVID LEONHARDT reports on economics for The Times.

 BODY:
WE knew what we wanted when we were planning our vacation last summer, but we were not sure where to find it on this side of the ocean.
 The previous year, my wife, Laura, and I rented a cottage on the outskirts of a golden hilltop village in southern France. We drove through mountainous countryside to shop at markets in the morning, played cards in the afternoon sun and cooked salmon on one of the world's worst electric grills at night. It was the best vacation I ever had. 
 This time, a welcome pregnancy and the unwelcome August air fares to Europe were conspiring to keep us closer to home. But we now knew what we were looking for: a landscape that was ample entertainment for much of the day and local food that filled in the rest. 
 We found our solution at an inn on the northern banks of the St. Lawrence River, 300 miles from where it last touches the United States. Starting in Montreal, we drove northeast, past Quebec City and on to the comparative quiet of Route 138, a plunging road that forms the spine of a region known as Charlevoix.
 During some ascents, only 10 yards of road were visible in front of the cars; on the way down, we sometimes seemed to be headed straight into the river. For a passenger, staring at the countryside, patched with wheat and red-trimmed white houses, became both a necessity and a delight.
 Charlevoix has long been a summer retreat for French Canadians and for the occasional American, including President William Howard Taft. Between the farms and small hotels, it is a center for art galleries and home to some of the best whale watching in the eastern part of North America. We bypassed Mr. Taft's favorite spot, the 405-room Manoir Richelieu, which still has the golf course he ceremonially opened in 1925 and has since added a casino. Our more modest destination was La Pinsonniere, a small resort hovering above the river, with a restaurant, a spa and a nearly perfect porch. 
 In the sunlight of late summer, that porch gives La Pinsonniere a grandeur of its own. Ten miles wide here, the St. Lawrence is more than double the broadest part of the Mississippi, and its varied blues stretch for miles. The porch is the place where guests tend to gather for the day's last light.
 What goes on the tables, however, is as important to the inn's appeal -- and to Charlevoix's -- as the view from them. Just behind is a footbridge crossing a tiny herb garden, from which a chef gathered thyme and dill one afternoon for that night's dinner. Through a set of doors leading to the lobby, is a small, well-stocked bar that serves evening snacks like crudites and refreshingly light fried cheese. 
 Outside the inn, back out on Route 138, is Charlevoix's Route des Saveurs, a trail of farms and shops that sell the region's produce, cheese and game. They welcome visitors and play an important role on the short, rotating menu at the inn's deservedly well-known restaurant. 
 Opened 25 years ago in a house built in the 1950's, La Pinsonniere lacks the weathered charm that many travelers want from an inn. Fortunately, though, the owners do not aspire to a history they cannot claim, and we found the wood-paneled common areas, with sofas, leather chairs, a fireplace, and backgammon and chess sets, to be cozy enough. Friendly staff members are always in the vicinity, happy to offer a drink or advice about local activities, and careful not to pester.
 When we told a woman at the front desk one evening that we wanted to go out for dinner and were looking for a simple restaurant in the best meaning of the term, she steered us toward Auberge Petite Madeleine in nearby St.-Simeon. There, we sat among Currier and Ives prints and old kitchen cans bearing Ritz and other brand names, in a room that felt as though it was part of somebody's house. At reasonable prices, we enjoyed Quebecois comfort food like a simple baked fish plate and upside-down blueberry cake.
 Turning over every decision to La Pinsonniere's staff would be a mistake, however. Like the common areas, all of the 25 guest rooms are well kept and comfortable, but the rooms without a river view are wholly unremarkable, while those with the view are splendid. Do not be tempted by the whirlpool bathtub, sauna or deck that accompany some of the rooms with the euphemistic "village view." 
 One floor beneath the lobby, a 20-by-40-foot indoor pool allowed me to pretend that I was making up for the previous night's fried cheese. There is a tennis court, too, near the beginning of a downhill path leading to the river's rocky shore. 
 Laura and I spent much of our days driving along Route 138, gawking at the changing views on the twisting road and stopping to shop. A store called Les Jardins du Centre, little more than a farm stand, was my favorite. One step through the door, and the room smelled richly of the raspberries being cooked into jam in the back. We bought a few tomatoes that were the equal of New Jersey's and some blue potatoes that the locals in front of us in line suggested cutting in half and roasting in oil. Back in New York, my mother, who received our uncooked leftovers, pronounced them the best potatoes she had ever tasted.
 Elsewhere in Charlevoix's riverside towns like Baie-St.-Paul, St.-Joseph-de-la-Rive and Les Eboulements, we stopped at a paper-making store that gave demonstrations and a lamb farm selling oversized sunflowers for one Canadian dollar apiece. 
 Thanks to van Gogh, sunflowers tend to bring France to my mind. But the analogy does not seem quite right in Charlevoix. The undulating farmland resembles the landscape of northern New England, not Provence, and many of the galleries and studios lining the roads have a cheerful newness to them. Wine is an afterthought here. Route 138's flavor trail includes a cider mill but no vineyards. 
 THERE is something reassuring about the differences. Charlevoix is its own place, not a theme park version of the Old World. Unlike the most visited parts of nearby Quebec City, where T-shirt sellers are easier to find than grocers, Charlevoix's stores exist to serve both tourists and residents.
 Our one disappointment, in fact, came at the casual restaurant at Mr. Taft's Manoir Richelieu. Laura decided it was worthy of the ultimate insult for pub food: if we ate there again, we would order vegetarian. 
 One memorable dinner at La Pinsonniere more than made up for that experience. From the spoonful of duck and lamb curry that came as a chef's appetizer to the maple souffle, each course exceeded the standard set by the previous one. Roasted quail and smoked Atlantic salmon followed the curry. The centerpiece of venison and black currants in a brandy and veal-stock sauce was as rich in flavor as it was in color. 
 By the meal's end, the moon, looking massive in the low sky, illuminated the river below the restaurant's windows, and we knew we had succeeded in satisfying both our stomachs and our eyes. 

The comforts of Quebec
The drive to Charlevoix from Quebec takes three to four hours.

Lodging and Dining
La Pinsonniere, 124, St. -Raphael, La Malbaie (secteur Cap-a-l'Aigle), Quebec, Canada G5A 1X9; (800) 387-4431, fax (418) 665-7156; www.lapinsonniere.com. May through October, rooms are $107 to $465 for a two-bedroom suite, based on $1.40 Canadian to the U.S. dollar. Standard rooms are $164. Not all of these rooms have a river view, though, so be sure to ask when making a reservation. For $340, you can stay in the premium deluxe room, which includes a king bed, a fireplace, a balcony and a sauna. There is a two-night minimum stay during weekends. Most rooms cost about $18 less a night during the low season.
 Fixed-priced menus at the restaurant are $43 (three courses), $61 (five) and $82 (seven) a person, not including wine. You can also order a la carte. Entrees are $29 to $34. 
 The inn's spa offers massages and other treatments individually, or you can buy a few as part of a package. A 50-minute massage costs $50. 
 At Auberge Petite Madeleine de Port-au-Persil, 400, route Port-au-Persil, St.-Simeon; (418) 638-2460, our dinner was $50 with tip and a half-bottle of wine.

Sightseeing
 At La Pinsonniere, you can pick up a helpful guide to Charlevoix's Route de Saveur, which lists nearby food shops and restaurants. A few of our favorites were in the nearby town of Les Eboulements. Les Jardins du Centre, (418)-635-2387, sells mainly produce. Ferme Eboulmontaise, (418) 635-2682, allows visitors to walk around its small sheep barn and vegetable gardens. A restaurant on the property is open every day except Tuesday.
 Croisieres 2001, (418) 235-3333, www.croisieres2001.com, and Croisieres AML, (800) 563-4643, www.croisieresaml.com, both run whale-watching cruises in the nearby Saguenay Fjord. The boat rides last about three hours and cost $35, and $14 for children between the ages of 6 and 16. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Views of the St. Lawrence River pop up along the dipping roads of the Charlevoix region. In the town of Les Eboulements. Whale watchers on the St. Lawrence. La Pinsonniere, the inn where the author stayed. (Photographs by Christinne Muschi for The New York Times)(pg. 9); Charlevoix is 300 miles above Montreal on the St. Lawrence. (Christinne Muschi for The New York Times)(pg. 17) Map of Quebec highlighting Charlevoix. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); MARINE MAMMALS (72%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) CANADA; CHARLEVOIX (CANADA); QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



607 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
SARS Abates in Toronto, But Tourism Still Lags

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
SUMMER is the time when Americans are attracted by Toronto's lakeside beaches, a slew of music festivals, a high-scoring baseball team and many sites, like Niagara Falls, within easy driving distance. But this summer is emerging as a major disappointment for Toronto's hotels and restaurants, which depend on a seasonal wave of American tourists. 
 The city's woes begin with a Canadian dollar that has rapidly appreciated most of the year, considerably flattening the wallets of Americans who make up the lion's share of foreign visitors. Air Canada, the main carrier between the United States and Toronto and other Canadian destinations, is tottering in bankruptcy protection -- lowering confidence among some travel agents about buying the airline's tickets well in advance. A limited outbreak of mad cow disease in Alberta in May raised concerns about the food supply. 
And most important, the outbreak of SARS in March made Toronto a city that travelers have been avoiding. On July 2, the city was finally taken off the World Health Organization list of SARS-impacted areas, and on July 9 the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention lifted its travel alert on Canada. Still, spokesmen for several Toronto hotels said there had been only a slight increase in reservations. "We'll see some short-term impact," said Cynthia Bond of the Starwood Hotels and Resorts, which runs five hotels in Toronto. But it is still going to be some time before things pick up, she added. 
 For those Americans who do visit Toronto, there are some attractive opportunities. The best tables at the restaurant atop CN Tower and many other fashionable dining spots can be had with little or no wait. Good tickets for acclaimed theater productions at the Shaw Festival in nearby Niagara-on-the-Lake can be bought at the last minute on most nights. And there are bargain packages galore, including some with tickets to a Rolling Stones concert Wednesday organized by local officials and by Molson Sports and Entertainment designed to celebrate the end of the SARS outbreak and tell the world Toronto is alive and well. (See www.iam.ca/rollingstones.)
 The Canadian tourism industry has started an aggressive advertising campaign that has included a humorous print advertisement with an enticing glimpse of Quebec City that offered Canada as a Plan B for those who thought better of this Plan A: "Given the economy and worldwide uncertainty, maybe this is the summer to stay in the U.S. and visit those distant relatives."
Plan B includes some bargains.
 Hertz, for instance, is offering free admission to CN Tower, the Toronto Zoo and a free helicopter tour of Niagara Falls among other perks for some weekly or weekend rentals of a full-size car in Toronto through Aug. 31. 
 SARS was never much of a threat to travelers visiting Toronto, according to local health officials. It remained mostly isolated in hospitals, where it spread for four months, and few if any cases were spread in the street.
 The perception that travel to Toronto was unsafe was based on relentless news media coverage as the death count rose to about 40, making the city the most affected outside Asia. The World Health Organization issued a travel advisory in late April warning travelers to postpone unnecessary travel to the city. The advisory was in place only six days, but it ravaged the travel industry. In May the city was taken off the SARS-affected list, but for less than two weeks, when a second cluster of SARS patients was identified and the listing was reinstated in early July.
 Cancellations of travel bookings, particularly of conventions, will have an impact on the local economy until well into 2004, according to recent studies.
 Hotel occupancy in Toronto was down 21 percent in April, the month SARS was at its peak, from the same month in 2002. About half of Toronto's 95,000 tourism workers had their work hours cut or were laid off entirely as hotels and restaurants struggled to cut costs.
 The damage stretched across the country, as the Canadian tourism industry's losses in 2003 are being projected at nearly $400 million (American), according to the Canadian Tourism Commission. Western Alberta, the SARS-free home of Lake Louise, Banff and Jasper, has reported a decrease in foreign tourism spending of up to 15 percent from last year. Montreal, also SARS-free, but much closer to Toronto and at least as cosmopolitan, reported estimated tourism losses of almost $40 million as many hotels reported that bookings were down 10 percent in recent months.
 "Perception versus reality was just so skewed," said Rod Seiling, president of the Greater Toronto Hotel Association. "In terms of having a regular summer, we're past that point." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); LODGING (79%); BASEBALL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); MUSIC (78%); TOURISM (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (76%); AIRLINES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); RESORTS (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); HELICOPTERS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (52%); THEATER (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: AIR CANADA (57%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (54%); MOLSON SPORTS & ENTERTAINMENT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (57%); HOT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%)

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%) ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (95%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



608 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Asbury Park; 
After Bleak Years, Signs of Progress

BYLINE:  By JERRY CHESLOW

 BODY:
IT has taken more than 30 years, but Asbury Park, N.J., crushed by race riots that drove out its middle class and sent it into a tailspin of poverty and municipal corruption, is seeing recovery, sometimes dramatic, in some of its neighborhoods. Fueled by an influx of gays, empty nesters and rock fans, property prices are booming in parts of the city, and stores are opening.
 But the recovery is still fragile. There is little foot traffic on Cookman Avenue, the main business street, and more than half the stores are vacant, with their windows boarded up, soaped up or cracked. Looming northward in the distance, at the oceanfront, is the rusting skeleton of an unfinished 11-story luxury high-rise -- a relic of a failed redevelopment effort started in the late 1980's. 
 According to the 2000 census, 30 percent of the population lives below the poverty line and only 20 percent of the residents own the homes in which they live. A former city administration is involved in a corruption scandal. A former city manager is awaiting sentencing for bribe taking, and a former mayor, a former councilman and a former head of the local housing authority are all under indictment on similar charges. 
Nevertheless, on many streets, Dumpsters occupy driveways and the whine of power saws fills the air. Whole blocks of Victorians along Sunset and Deal Lakes in the northeastern quadrant have been completely restored by urban pioneers. Many of those homes are at least 3,000 square feet and had been divided into rental apartments during Asbury Park's scruffier days. Now, they are being reconverted into luxury single-family houses. 
"Some homes that were difficult to sell for $100,000 four years ago are now going for $600,000," said Jim McGlynn, a sales associate at Genesis Realty and Management on Cookman Avenue. "Six of ten of my buyers are gay couples, who love Victorian, the shore and multicultural communities and don't have the same need for a good school system that heterosexuals do." Mr. McGlynn said others are empty nesters and Bruce Springsteen fans, attracted to Asbury after the rock star introduced his album "The Rising" on the beach for the "Today" show last July.
The lure of inexpensive shore housing drew William D. Whitefield and his partner, Christopher Vendi, both actors, to Asbury Park two years ago. "We heard that it was improving and that gay people, artists and families were starting to move in," Mr. Whitefield said. With the help of a redevelopment program sponsored by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and a 3 percent down payment, they purchased a two-family Victorian that required minimal work for $214,000. 
"Just four months later, we were offered $385,000," Mr. Whitefield said. "I feel like we got the last great deal in Asbury Park."
The couple has since refurbished their home and rented out the bottom floor. Although they love watching the house-by-house reconstruction of Asbury Park, they are reminded each morning of how far it still has to go. "We spend mornings just picking up litter thrown out of car windows that lands outside our house," said Mr. Whitefield. 
According to Mr. McGlynn, the remodeling boom that started in the northeast is flowing southward and westward, toward the New Jersey Transit tracks on the fringe of the crowded southwestern quadrant, where most low-income residents live. Those houses, too, are being snapped up, but by investors, who are renting them out to people who were displaced when the larger Victorians were reconverted.
AT the end of July, 132 single-family homes were listed for sale on the Multiple Listing Service, ranging from $95,000 for a two-bedroom ranch on Avenue A in the southwestern section up to $695,000 for a six-bedroom 1920's center hall colonial on Eighth Avenue, facing Deal Lake. 
Also appreciating are apartments in the 14 condominium buildings. They range from $70,000 for a one-bedroom in Park Place, a converted hotel at the corner of Park Place and Sixth Avenue, up to $400,000 for a two-bedroom in the nine-story Santander, built on Deal Lake in the 1920's.
The largest condominium building is the 100-unit, 12-story Deal Lake Towers on Deal Lake Drive. According to Walter M. Clark, a sales associate at Park Place Realty on Main Street, one-bedroom units that he sold in the building for $26,000 each after a bank foreclosure four years ago recently sold for up to $165,000 apiece.
Along Cookman Avenue, many of the shuttered stores have been purchased by developers, who are building condominium apartments above them, in a move that city officials hope will reinvigorate the downtown. Recent sales of those condos range from $265,000 to $295,000.
Several new restaurants have opened in the past year on Cookman and neighboring Main Street, including Harry's Roadhouse, a restaurant and nightclub in a cavernous converted clothing store with exposed brick walls. It serves Southern fare and drinks from a bar flanked by a red 1920's Texaco Fire Chief gasoline pump. On weekend nights, when disk jockeys and bands are working, it employs as many as 10 bouncers and can draw 360 diners, according to the general manager, Andrew Thompson.
"By now, we were also hoping for a walk-in lunch trade," said Mr. Thompson, surveying his nearly vacant establishment on a Friday afternoon. "This is still a tough area, and I think it will takeat least two years until Cookman Avenue becomes a destination place so that we can start making a profit."
For potential residents with children, the problems of the 3,500-student Asbury Park School District are a concern. Its high school dropout rate is 11 percent, compared with a state average of 2.7 percent, and one-fourth of its students are in special education programs, some with problems related to their mothers' substance abuse during pregnancy. With an $80 million annual budget, the district has one of the highest per-pupil spending rates in New Jersey. Class sizes hover about 19 students, better than the state average of 20.4, and Asbury Park has one computer for every 1.6 students at the high school level, compared with one of four students statewide.
Nevertheless, the district is the lowest-scoring in Monmouth County on standardized tests. On last year's SAT reasoning test, Asbury Park students achieved combined verbal and mathematics scores of 778, compared with a state average of 1,009. 
The superintendent of schools, Antonio N. Lewis, who was appointed three years ago, says he is turning around a system that was in chaos when he inherited it, with just 16 percent of students reading at grade level. "Nobody was watching the store," Dr. Lewis said.
A four-member task force drafted a 41-page plan to overhaul hiring practices, develop new curriculum and update job descriptions, draft new educational policies and improve oversight and monitoring. 
Three years later, according to Kathy McDavid, a member of the task force and director of curriculum, test scores have improved significantly, with 64 percent of students in the largest of the three elementary schools, the 735-student Thurgood Marshall School, reading at grade level. Mrs. McDavid believes it will take up to seven years to complete the turnaround in the school system.
New Jersey's deputy commissioner of education, Dwight R. Pfennig, acknowledges that Dr. Lewis and his staff are making progress, especially at the elementary level. "Our major thrust in New Jersey is to have all students literate by third grade," Dr. Pfennig said. "We have great hope that this district will eventually do so, but we find unacceptable the projection of a turnaround in seven years. We must build the educational capacity of the district faster."
WITH its problems, Asbury Park might cause despair to its founder, a devout Methodist industrialist named James Adam Bradley, who named the city for Francis Asbury, an 18th-century circuit-riding preacher credited with establishing the denomination in the Americas. According to Werner Baumgartner, the city historian, Mr. Bradley set up one of the first boards of health in the United States shortly after the city's founding in 1871. His inspectors regularly visited homes to ensure that the garbage was bagged, the windows were screened and there was no livestock or alcohol in the homes. "Until the 1920's, Asbury Park was one of the only 'dry' beachfront resorts in the country," he said.
The famous Asbury boardwalk, nine-tenths of a mile long and built in 1930, is bookended by two huge brick and steel Beaux-Arts buildings -- the Casino, a building used for entertainment in a bygone era, to the south and Convention Hall to the north -- both of which are in need of restoration. By 1940, there were about 200 hotels; today, there is only one, the Berkeley Carteret, built in 1925.
In the 1950's and 1960's, Asbury Park was an entertainment destination, with clubs like the Stone Pony, where Bruce Springsteen got his start and still plays. By the mid-1960's, urban flight began; and on July 4, 1970, race riots gutted much of the city, sealing its fate as a backwater. 
Local officials say redevelopment is really coming to Asbury Park this time, after a new City Council, elected in July 2001, appointed a new city manager, settled lawsuits with the bankrupt developer of the 11-story skeleton and approved a new redevelopment plan on June 25, 2003. It calls for the construction of 3,000 luxury condominiums and a hotel along Ocean Avenue on the shore; the conversion of a vacant 1897 department store, the Steinbach Building, on Cookman Avenue into 60 condominiums and new retail space; and the construction of affordable housing.
City Manager Terence J. Reidy says Asbury Park's government is becoming more effective. In the past year, it has improved tax collection from a paltry 70 percent to the high 80's. "Ninety-five percent is considered good," Mr. Reidy admitted. "And as we collect more taxes, our ability to borrow to finance infrastructure improvements will go up."
This year, Asbury Park's most famous asset, its beachfront, has started coming back. According to Mr. Reidy, on the July 4 weekend, the city sold $20,000 worth of beach badges, at $4 each, compared with total badge sales of $74,000 last year. "Clearly we have a long way to go, but we are making progress because people don't come to the beach unless something is happening in the city."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two faces of Asbury Park: a boarded-up house on Springwood Avenue and imposing homes on Sunset Avenue, along Sunset Lake.; 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath colonial at 505 Ridge Avenue, $169,000. 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial at 1302 Third Avenue, $265,000. 3-bedroom, 2-bath custom ranch at 1215 Fifth Avenue, $499,900. (Photographs by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times) Chart: "GAZETTEER" POPULATION: 16,930 (2000 census).MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $23,081.AREA: 1.4 square miles.MEDIAN PRICE OF ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $225,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $2,875.MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $215,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $60,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $210,000.MIDRANGE RENT ON TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,200.CODES: Area, 732; ZIP, 07712.GOVERNMENT: Mayor Kevin Sanders (Republican) and four council members, elected to staggered four-year terms.SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $17,473.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 58 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 1 hour 40 minutes by New Jersey Transit train to Penn Station with transfer in either Long Branch or Newark, $10.05 one way, $281 monthly; or one hour 50 minutes by Academy Bus to Port Authority, $9.50 one way, $77 for 10 trips.MORRO CASTLE DISASTER: On Sept. 9, 1934, a Ward Line cruise ship named the Morro Castle caught fire off the New Jersey coast after a series of explosions while en route from Havana to New York with almost 550 aboard; and 134 people perished. Some crew members were later prosecuted for abandoning ship without assisting passengers. The blazing hulk ran aground about 200 yards from the Convention Center in Asbury Park. It quickly became a major tourist attraction. To handle the tens of thousands of visitors, the city quickly made Ocean Avenue and Kingsley Street, which run parallel to the beachfront, into one-way streets, creating what became known as "the Circuit," a traffic pattern that has served the city for nearly 70 years. Map of New Jersey highlighting Asbury Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); EMPTY NESTERS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RIOTS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FAMILY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); MAYORS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); BRIBERY (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); SCANDALS (72%); CENSUS (70%); BEACHES (70%); INDICTMENTS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); SENTENCING (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



609 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
Builders Turning to Condos From Luxury Rentals

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
WITH mortgage rates low and the median price of a single-family house in Westchester out of the reach of many (it was $525,000 at the end of the first quarter of 2003), apartment developers are abandoning plans for new luxury rentals in favor of condominiums.
 Often more affordable than houses, condos appeal to families just starting out as well as to empty nesters leaving larger homes behind. Even young professionals who traditionally rent because they often change locations are being lured by low interest rates to buy into the county's thriving condo market, confident they can sell for a profit when the time comes to move on. 
 The shift in emphasis to condos can be clearly seen on one city block here in the downtown area, where Louis R. Cappelli, a Valhalla-based developer, is finishing a 35-story rental tower with 300 studios, one- two- and three-bedroom apartments going for $1,700 to $4,000 a month and laying the foundation next to it for a high-rise condo project. Across the street, an "apartments available" sign is posted outside an existing Tudor-style, midrise rental building. 
Instead of a planned second tower with 300 rental apartments, Mr. Cappelli is building 35 floors for about 220 two- and three-bedroom ownership units, said Marge Schneider, an executive vice president for Cappelli Enterprises. A 29-unit loft condo project by the company is under way next to the two towers. The tower condominiums are expected to range in price from $600,000 for a 1,300-square-foot apartment to as much as $2 million for a 3,000-square-foot unit. The lofts will be priced at $450,000 to $1.2 million.
"Market studies showed us that this was the right time for luxury ownership units in Westchester," Ms. Schneider said. 
The residential towers are part of a $320 million City Center on 7.5 acres in the heart of the downtown area that also includes 400,000 square feet for retail stores, 88,000 square feet for a 15-screen movie theater and 30,000 square feet for restaurants. The tower apartments are among 1,800 living units that White Plains has approved since 2000 to infuse new energy into its downtown.
But with interest rates as low as 5.875 percent for a 30-year conventional mortgage with 20 percent down on a condo costing less than $300,000, said Edward Weidberg, a mortgage adviser at American Home Mortgage White Plains, the rental market has not generated much interest. And with adjustable rate mortgages, the borrowing rate is even lower. In response, leasing agents are offering incentives like a month's free rent to lure consumers instead of lowering the asking rents, because they expect demand to increase as rates rise. 
"I wouldn't say there's a glut of rentals, but there's certainly a lot of product available," said Frank Cantatore, a partner in Clayton Park, a 260-unit apartment house that came on the market in November. Rents begin at $1,850 for a one-bedroom apartment and go up to $3,000 for two-bedroom corner units, with the first month's rent free. About 70 leases have been signed. 
Elsewhere in the city, 502 rental units have come on the market in recent months at Bank Street Commons -- a twin tower complex next to the Metro-North Railroad station. To date, 61 apartments have been rented. Units there range from $1,950 for a one-bedroom apartment to $3,075 for the highest-priced two-bedroom unit. Bank Street Commons is offering one month rent free to new tenants and a coupon for $1,200 that can be applied to rent, said Esther Mena, the leasing manager. The complex is also waiving the $300-a-year amenities fee for new tenants, she said. 
An additional 281 apartments are being built on the southern fringe of the downtown area by JPI of Irving, Tex. 
Like Mr. Cappelli, Mr. Cantatore had planned to develop a second rental project. But he has also decided to build condos instead and will start building 10 Windsor Terrace, a new $39 million, 10-story building with 71 units, within the next six months. The one- to three-bedroom condos, covering 1,200 to 2,200 square feet, will sell for $500,000 to $900,000, Mr. Cantatore said.
"It doesn't surprise me that some developers would change course or even retreat to the proven sector of condos," said P. Gilbert Mercurio, executive vice president of the Westchester County Board of Realtors. "The rental market -- while I'm optimistic about it -- is much more speculative. We don't have a lot of history with new rentals, especially at the high end, which is what many of the new units are."
THE growth of the condo sector is being seen not only in White Plains but throughout the county, said Martin Ginsburg, an owner of the Ginsburg Development Corporation of Hawthorne. He attributed the softness in the rental market to low interest rates, as well as the softness of the economy. "A good part of what drives rentals is job creation, and that's not happening," he said.
In a project in Peekskill that was originally conceived of as rentals, Mr. Ginsburg is now building 201 condo town houses and triplex units at Riverbend on 21 acres overlooking the Hudson River. Prices will start in the low $200,000's and reach more than $500,000, he said. Occupancy is expected in 2004. In Pelham, Ginsburg Development is planning to build 67 condo units, costing $400,000 to $700,000.
In downtown New Rochelle, another condo project is under way: 72 work-live lofts in a former five-story Bloomingdale's store. After six weeks of marketing, more than 50 units in the $15 million Davenport Lofts project have been sold, said Mona Gora-Friedman, one of three principals, along with Stuart Polinsky and Joseph Klaynberg. Prices at Davenport Lofts start at $275,000 for one-bedroom lofts of 900 square feet and go up to $500,000 for penthouse lofts with terraces, she said. The first units are expected to be occupied in late October or early November.
Older condos are also selling well, said Patti Cunningham, a co-owner of Cunningham & Schneider Realty in White Plains. Even with the price increases in condos in the last year, they remain an affordable alternative for many buyers, she said.
The median price of a condo in this year's first quarter was $275,500, up 15 percent from a year earlier, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. Sales of condos increased by 9.8 percent, to 246,from 224 in the year-ago quarter.
And while the median sales price of a single-family home in Westchester rose 12 percent in the first quarter of 2003 from the year-ago period, the number sold dropped 13.7 percent, to 942, from 1,092.
Ms. Cunningham attributes the shift to condos in part to the high price of homes. One customer, a retired teacher who did not want to continue renting with interest rates so low, decided to buy a single-family home. But when he found little available in his price range -- the low $200,000's -- the teacher chose an older one-bedroom town house condo, a corner unit with a patio, in Ossining for $217,000. Another couple with a small child, looking for a three-bedroom house, instead chose a three-bedroom, two-bath condo for $289,000.
"Both cases are typical of what we're experiencing with customers who want to own but can't afford a single-family dwelling," Ms. Cunningham said.
While individuals may be moving away from the rental market, however, others see opportunity. James R. Tully, a vice president for CB Richard Ellis, said his company had recently negotiated the sale of Lexington Place Apartments in downtown White Plains to Korman Communities of Plymouth Meeting, Pa. According to Joseph Cerrato, an agent with Prudential Rand Realty in White Plains, the sale price was $19 million. Mr. Tully said some apartments in the 16-story, 124-unit rental complex would be furnished and leased to corporations. Studio apartments rent for $1,350 a month, and two-bedroom units for $2,050. The apartments, which average about 720 square feet each, are too small for conversion to condos or co-ops, Mr. Tully said.
"What we're seeing is that there's still room in the market for rentals," Mr. Tully said. "Not everyone is able or ready to buy, and some people don't have the down payment. Besides, interest rates will eventually creep back up, and the market will shift again. It always does."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cappelli Enterprises' first tower has rentals; the second will be condos. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CITIES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); EMPTY NESTERS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); APPROVALS (64%); RETAILERS (60%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



610 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/Fifth Avenue and 38th Street; 
An 11-Story Brick and Limestone Palace of Retail

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
LORD & TAYLOR is one of Manhattan's most venerable stores, established in 1825 and established at 38th Street and Fifth Avenue in 1914. An ongoing installation of new windows on the 11-story brick and limestone palazzo provides a good opportunity to consider whether architecture is made up of solids -- or voids.
 Samuel Lord and George Taylor opened their first store on the Lower East Side, but they were long out of the picture by 1912, when Lord & Taylor bought the northwest corner of 38th Street and Fifth Avenue, a commanding site and almost a full block front. 
 In 1913, the store filed plans for one of the most elegant large storesever built in New York, more suave than Macy's and more inventive than Saks. Over a limestone base, the architects Starrett & Van Vleck put an Italian Renaissance-style facade of gray faced brick, topped by a giant colonnade of marble and a copper cornice. Delicate "L&T" relief panels flank the entrance, and Roman-type screens with delicate cresting marked the show windows. 
In 1914, when the store was completed, the magazine Architecture said that the architects had been "fortunate in having clients who advocated a generous and progressive policy" with the result that "the public has received a gift and a benefit."
This spirit extended beyond the building's lot lines, for Lord & Taylor included a series of ramps for its electric delivery wagons to go to the basement; The New York Times said in 1913 that the store was grateful to the city that gave it prosperity and "will not embarrass it by lining the street with delivery wagons and packing cases."
The main floor was decorated as carefully as the smaller shops popping up on Fifth Avenue, with a ceiling of low arches, rich buff travertine columns and the floor in travertine bordered with black Numidian marble veined with gold. On the fourth floor, the store had an Adam-style salon with a great stage and spotlights "for trying out theatrical effects of handsome costumes," The Times said, and, on the seventh floor, a concert hall with a pipe organ.
Apparently, the 10th floor had no merchandise whatsoever, only a great dining complex for 500: the oval Wedgewood Room, with Adam-style decoration and a glass dome, a Chinese-style Mandarin Room, and the Loggia, in the red and gold of an Italian villa, and great French windows that could be opened up to make the room like a balcony in the summer. The 11th floor was largely devoted to the employees, with an open-air promenade, a solarium, a gym and a medical facility.
The main-floor show windows were not dressed in place but were built in pairs set on tracks: a new window was prepared in the basement, and switched with the old in a matter of minutes. Even the main doorway on Fifth Avenue had a platform in the basement, raised to form a display when the store was closed.
Architecture magazine singled out something normally left aside in most architectural discussions: the windows. A 1914 article noted that, in place of the typical upper-floor windows on commercial buildings, designed economically with large sheets of glass, the new Lord & Taylor windows were divided into small lights, as they would be on a much smaller building or even a town house. "A daring spirit," an anonymous writer said in the magazine. "Thus we have escaped the slavery of plate glass."
A 1915 article in the same journal by the architect Jerauld Dahler expanded on this theme, maintaining that high-rise buildings of steel-frame construction were really solids and voids -- the masonry and the nearly black glass of the windows, which created a hollow, sunken appearance. 
But on the Lord & Taylor Building the multipaned windows above the second floor -- up to 20 panes for some of the larger ones -- created a series of "delicate lines which we feel, rather than see, transversing the open area of the window openings, being of the same color and value as the walls themselves" and uniting the face of the building.
Dahler even reproduced comparative photographs, one of the building as it was, with buff-colored multilight window frames, and with the frames painted out -- demonstrating the "black eye" effect he described.
The ground-floor store windows figured in a disputewith the Fifth Avenue Association in 1938. In a November of unseasonably warm temperatures, Dorothy Shaver, an executive who was later president of Lord & Taylor from 1945 to 1959, conceived the idea of staging a continuous blizzard in the windows (created with cornflakes) with no merchandise, only signs admonishing "It's coming! Sooner or later!" According to The Times, winter clothing sales increased 50 percent even though the temperature was in the 70's. 
But almost immediately the Fifth Avenue Association protested to Walter Hoving, president of Lord & Taylor, that the store had violated a ban on motion in Fifth Avenue windows intended to keep out cheap trinket shops. Lord & Taylor took the windows down with some grumbling, but the ban was soon lifted and visiting Lord & Taylor's delightful Christmas windows is still a standard ritual for many New Yorkers.
NOW many of the same stores that moved up to Murray Hill with Lord & Taylor -- Vantine, Bonwit Teller, McCreery, Altman, Franklin Simon -- are names unknown to most New Yorkers, tossed into the dustbin of New York's retail history. When the giant B. Altman closed on 34th and Fifth in 1989, it left Lord & Taylor on a cliff of retail geography, like a large beachfront house where erosion now approaches the front porch.
A trip through the store now reveals little of the 1914 building. The original light fixtures are in place, but the walnut and ebony display cases are gone, and only patches of the Numidian marble floor have survived successive remodelings. 
The original travertine ceilings, arches and columns have survived, but the columns are covered with strips of mirror, and the ceilings and arches are obscured by many coats of paint. The elaborate 10th-floor dining rooms, the employees' solarium, the spotlighted stage, the concert hall and the ground-floor dual show-window are but a memory, if that. Balconies have been removed from the exterior, and the rich ground-floor limestone is hidden by paint.
This summer scaffolding went up around Lord & Taylor for a massive window replacement project. Dana Marnane, a spokesman for Lord & Taylor, says the new windows are being installed on top of the old ones to save energy, although she declined to provide any figures on the projected savings.
"It will appear slightly different, a more fresh look with the new clean windows," she said. From a few surreptitious inspections -- like one in a men's changing room on the north side of the 10th floor -- the original windows appear to be sound, although the paint is peeling from the exterior. 
The original window color was light, midway between the buff limestone and the soft gray brick. But the new windows are the familiar dark brown color that has become the default for such installations, and fake window muntins. 
But in this case the muntins are either carelessly made or poorly installed, at least in the work completed so far on 38th Street. There, they bow out from the glass surface, revealing them as artificial add-ons and reinforcing (rather than diminishing) the black-eye effect. 
As for the flat brown color, Ms. Marnane would not say why Lord & Taylor had chosen it. It would be out of place with the original light masonry of the 1914 building, but the facade is now so soiled and dark that the brown actually forms an appropriate complement to what was, in 1914, a noble work.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lord & Taylor department store about 1914, left, and today. Over a limestone base, the architects Starrett & Van Vleck put an Italian Renaissance-style facade of gray faced brick, topped by a giant colonnade of marble and a copper cornice. (Wurts Collection/Museum of the City of New York); (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LORD & TAYLOR LLC (92%); AQUANTIVE INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



611 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
The Appeal Of V.A. Mortgages

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
MORTGAGES guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs have traditionally been regarded by residential specialists with less than high enthusiasm, but these loans offer characteristics -- notably a zero-down-payment option and an ability to be passed on to a subsequent buyer of a home -- that make them a financing option worth considering. 
 Such mortgages -- commonly referred to as V.A. loans -- are attractive because they allow veterans to purchase a home with no money down and without having to pay private mortgage insurance that is usually required when the down payment is less than 20 percent. The loans are also appealing because, unlike most conventional mortgages, they are assumable by a subsequent buyer on the same terms and conditions that the veteran received. 
 While such loans have been available since the end of World War II, they have traditionally been viewed by real estate brokers and lawyers for both buyers and sellers as being more trouble than they are worth because of the time and red tape involved in applying for them. 
Over the past several years, however, the Department of Veterans Affairs has been streamlining its application procedures -- and tweaking its regulations -- to make obtaining a V.A. loan nearly as easy as applying for a conventional mortgage. And with interest rates now at historic lows, mortgage experts say, the fact that V.A. mortgages can usually be assumed by a subsequent buyer could give those who obtain such loans now a distinct advantage when the time comes to sell.
"There are a lot of misconceptions out there about V.A. loans," said Monique A. Beaudoin, loan production officer for the V.A. regional loan center in Manchester, N.H. Among those misconceptions, Ms. Beaudoin said, are that V.A. loans cost more, take much longer to process and require much more paperwork than conventional loans. 
"I was a lender back in the 80's" she said. "And getting a V.A. mortgage was a lot more complex back then."
Ms. Beaudoin explained that under the V.A. loan program, an estimated 29 million veterans are eligible to obtain mortgages of up to $240,000 to buy (or build) homes without making any down payment whatsoever. (Some lenders will make loans of up to $300,000, with a $15,000 down payment.) Frequently, she said, V.A. loans are somewhat easier to qualify for because a more generous formula is used to determine a buyer's ability to pay.
In addition, Ms. Beaudoin said, lenders who participate in the V.A. "automatic processing" program typically do not have to wait for the government to approve a mortgage application. In fact, she said, veterans who already have V.A. mortgages and want to refinance can do so in as little as a week.
The first step in obtaining a V.A. mortgage, Ms. Beaudoin said, is for the veteran to obtain a certificate of eligibility. Generally, she said, veterans who served on active duty during wartime for 90 days or more are eligible. Veterans with service only during peacetime must have had more than 180 days of active service, and veterans of enlisted service that began after Sept. 7, 1980, or officers with service beginning after Oct. 16, 1981, must, in most cases, have served at least two years.
Also eligible are current full-time active-duty military personnel who have served for at least 60 days; reservists and National Guard members who were activated on or after Aug. 2, 1990, and served in the Persian Gulf War for at least 90 days; and Guard members and reservists who served in support of operations in Kosovo, Afghanistan or Iraq for at least 90 days.
In addition, reservists and National Guard members who have completed six years of service and have been honorably discharged or who are still serving may be eligible. Those who believe they may be eligible for a V.A. mortgage, Ms. Beaudoin said, should complete a "request for a certificate of eligibility" (found on the V.A. Internet site,
homeloans.va.gov/lgyinfo.htm) and submit the completed form along with copies of the most recent discharge or separation papers or a current statement of service.
After a certificate of eligibility has been received, she said, the veteran shops for a home. Once a home is found, the veteran contacts a mortgage lender. If the lender is authorized by the V.A. to do automatic processing, Ms. Beaudoin said, the loan can be closed without V.A. review of the credit application. (Approved lenders are listed on the agency's Web site.) Loans from other lenders require V.A. credit approval.
After the loan is applied for, Ms. Beaudoin said, the lender must order an appraisal from an appraiser designated by the V.A. "This is the only thing that we do differently," she said, explaining that while most lenders hire their own appraisers, the V.A. insists that the appraiser be chosen by the agency. 
That, however, is one reason that lawyers, brokers and, frequently, sellers, are hardly overjoyed when a buyer indicates he or she is applying for a V.A. loan. "The V.A. appraiser comes in and goes through the house with a fine-toothed comb," said Peter Bell, an agent for Balch Buyers Realty in Mamaroneck. "It's almost like they're doing an inspection instead of an appraisal."
Another thing that makes sellers uncomfortable with such deals, he said, is the fact that in most cases, the buyer has no money on the line. "The seller says, 'I don't really want to deal with a V.A. loan,' " Mr. Bell said. "They say they would rather deal with somebody who has 10 percent or 20 percent down than somebody who has no down payment." 
But veterans who are able to buy a house using V.A. financing could find they obtain a significant additional benefit. Ms. Beaudoin, the loan production officer, explained that V.A. loans are assumable by a subsequent buyer subject to the V.A.'s approval. This means that when the veteran decides to sell the home, the buyer may be able to buy it without having to obtain a mortgage on his or her own.
"Assumability is a great feature when it's time to sell," Ms. Beaudoin said. While the person assuming a mortgage issued on March 1, 1988, or later must be approved by the V.A., obtaining such approval is said to be no more difficult than it would be for the buyer to obtain a new mortgage.
For example, imagine that a veteran buys a $200,000 house with a $200,000 mortgage and two years later wants to sell the house for $240,000. With an ordinary mortgage, a buyer would have to make some sort of cash down payment -- typically, 20 percent -- and would have to pay all the costs associated with obtaining the mortgage.
With a veteran's mortgage, on the other hand, if the buyer has a $40,000 down payment -- an amount that is actually less than 20 percent -- he can buy the house by paying the $40,000 cash to the seller (plus whatever amount the seller has paid against principal) and assuming the seller's remaining obligation on the mortgage. Buyers can save even more money when buying a home and assuming a veteran's mortgage after interest rates have risen.
A veteran who obtained a 30-year V.A. mortgage earlier this year, for example, might be paying 5.5 percent interest. If, two years from now, rates have risen, say, two percentage points, to 7.5 percent, a buyer assuming the V.A. mortgage would get the benefit of lower monthly payments, and the original owner would be released from the mortgage. While one does not have to be a veteran to assume a veteran's mortgage, she said, if the buyer happens to be a qualified veteran, the seller's entitlement for a V.A. loan is "freed up" and he or she can get a zero-down-payment V.A. loan on the next house as well. 
Ms. Beaudoin pointed out, however, that the V.A. usually charges the veteran 2 percent of the loan amount for a zero-down-payment mortgage -- commonly referred to as the "funding fee" -- and this is usually in addition to the 1 percent origination fee charged by most lenders. On the other hand, there is no requirement for the buyer to pay any monthly mortgage insurance premium. "And the funding fee can be included in the loan," she said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); VETERANS (90%); VETERANS LOANS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (79%); APPROVALS (77%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (78%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



612 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Retirement Savings, In a Higher Gear?

BYLINE:  By Jennifer Bayot

 BODY:
People saving for retirement may find even more tax benefits as early as next year.
 A bill now making its way through the House, with bipartisan support, would speed up changes laid out in the 2001 tax relief law. 
Among other provisions, that law provided for a gradual increase, over five years, in how much workers may contribute to their 401(k) and individual retirement accounts. The current legislation would put the highest limits into effect in 2004, instead of 2006. 
 Employees would be able to set aside a maximum of $15,000 in their 401(k)'s, up from $12,000 this year and $10,500 before the 2001 law.
Workers with I.R.A.'s could contribute up to $5,000, an increase over the maximum of $3,000 in 2003 and $2,000 in 2001.
People over age 50 could make additional, catch-up contributions of $5,000 to their 401(k)'s, versus an additional $2,000 in 2003. Or they could put $1,000 more into their I.R.A.'s, compared to $500 this year. 
"Everything here is really a boost toward getting people to save more towards retirement," said Steven G. Lockwood, president of Lockwood Pension Services in New York and co-author of the annual "Individual Retirement Account Answer Book" (Aspen Publishers). "It's a way to get more money back into plans faster, to replenish the market losses that have occurred over the last three to four years."
Older workers may see an additional benefit: the legislation would push back the age that people must begin taking out their retirement money, to 75 from 70 1/2. Jennifer Bayot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (93%); US 401K PLANS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TRENDS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK & CO INC (67%)

TICKER: NWY (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (67%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (67%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (67%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



613 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
The Career Break That's No Holiday

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS

 BODY:
MICHAEL WARREN still shudders when he thinks of his first day as a car salesman in Greensboro, N.C., last July. "It was 100 degrees outside and I was standing on a black asphalt lot sweating in a long-sleeve white shirt," remembers Mr. Warren, 54, who had been fired the year before from his $175,000-a-year job as chief operating officer of a technology company.
 But the heat wasn't the problem. Nor were the payments on commission, which amounted to less than minimum wage. It was the way his new boss treated him, he said. 
 "I've closed deals in countries all over the world, and here is this worm instructing me on the basics of selling as if I didn't know anything," said Mr. Warren, who lives in Greensboro. "It was one of the most humiliating days of my life."
Mr. Warren isn't alone in feeling bitter about having to take a job he considers well beneath his qualifications and experience. In this rocky economy, the median duration of unemployment last month was the longest in 20 years, according to the Labor Department, and more and more high-level workers are having to take low-paying stopgap jobs while continuing to seek work in their chosen fields.
"Conventional wisdom has always been to spend all of your time on the job hunt, looking for the position you really want," said Phil Simshauser, vice president of the Center for Executive Options, a subsidiary of DBM, the human-resources consulting firm. But Mr. Simshauser said that the typical displaced executive was out of work for 7 to 10 months, and that waiting for the ideal job was "a luxury that many people can't afford."
Damian Birkel, founder of Professionals in Transition, a nonprofit support group for out-of-work executives that is based in Winston-Salem, N.C., has seen an increase in the number of unemployed upper-level workers taking lower-status jobs. In the last few months, Mr. Birkel said, he has worked with a former corporate financial officer who got a job stirring paint at Home Depot, and several former executives who signed up to work for the North Carolina government supervising the cleanup after ice storms last winter.
These jobs can halt the financial bleeding, he said, but can often be "a big blow to your self-esteem."
That was the experience of Mr. Warren, who lasted about four months at the car dealership, all the while looking for a position as a senior executive of a small technology company. When he couldn't stand it anymore, he took a job as a mail courier at a local law firm.
But that job was no better. Mr. Warren spent most of last winter hurrying around downtown Greensboro to deliver documents, often in sleet or rain. At the firm, "I was told to be invisible," said Mr. Warren, who left in April. "It was like I was some kind of house servant."
Some career experts recommend that unemployed executives try to find a stopgap position within their fields. Lance Hurley, corporate director of client services for Bernard Haldane, a career management company based in New York, has advised several unemployed corporate finance managers to take accounting positions with a temporary-employment firm like Accountemps. "When smaller companies in particular hire temporaries, some of them are really auditioning candidates for a higher-level job," he said.
Neil Lebovits, president and chief operating officer of Ajilon Finance, a staffing and recruiting company in Saddle Brook, N.J., estimates that about 20 percent to 25 percent of those who take temporary positions through the company end up getting offers for permanent jobs.
But an executive who takes a temporary job is unlikely to have the responsibilities of a permanent employee. Mr. Lebovits said he had recently placed a man who had been a chief financial officer into a temporary job with the same title. The man was dismayed to find himself excluded from board meetings and strategic planning. "That infuriated him," he said. "He was used to being able to help make big decisions."
Mr. Birkel of Professionals in Transition says executives who take lower-status jobs often have to reduce the amount of time they spend searching for a more suitable position in their field.
But not all stopgap jobs are without promise. Some executives have been able to make business contacts. 
Dr. Debra Condren, a business psychologist in New York, recently worked with an executive who had been laid off from a global communications company. After his unemployment benefits ran out, he took over a dog-walking service for a traveling neighbor and began chatting up the dogs' owners.
ONE owner gave him a lead that resulted in a job in his field. It pays $17,000 less than he made before, and the responsibilities are fewer, but he views the job "as a way to keep himself more in demand while searching for a position" that is better, Dr. Condren said.
One way for executives to keep their self-confidence during a stopgap job is to find a company that values their expertise, said Jane Caryl, president of Recruiting Intelligence Ltd., a business in Manhattan. 
Ms. Caryl recently helped place Peter Paradiso, a longtime Citibank executive, into a temporary position as an administrative worker at a Manhattan financial services firm. Mr. Paradiso, 55, took a retirement buyout from Citibank in October 2001 and has been trying to find work as a college professor.
Last April, Mr. Paradiso took the temporary assignment for financial reasons and was pleasantly surprised to find that the company preferred temporary workers with unusual talents and extensive experience. He rubs elbows daily with musicians, writers and some former executives in his age group. "I knew this was going to be an adjustment," he said. "But the people around me really appreciate my background, and that makes all the difference." 
Mr. Warren said that for now, he was hoping to avoid taking another stopgap job. He has created a spreadsheet to help figure out how much money he needs to survive, and to help pay tuition for his two children in college. "I've got 10 months before I go bust," he said. "If I don't find something in that time, it's back to punching a clock somewhere, in some job that I'm going to hate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After being miserable in a couple of stopgap jobs, Michael Warren, at home in Greensboro, N.C., is focusing on finding work as an executive. (Jim Stratford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); DISMISSALS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%) PERSONAL FINANCE; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: WARREN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (90%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (78%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



614 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE LIFE: THE BOSS; 
Language of Experience

BYLINE:  By DAVID HELENIAK; Written with Glenn Rifkin.

 BODY:
I GREW up in St. Paul, where I was good enough at football to be recruited by the University of Michigan. I played my freshman year and then decided that I was better off focusing on my studies. I did, however, become a lifelong Michigan football fan. 
 One of the real turning points in my life came at the London School of Economics, where I earned my master's degree in economics in 1969. The school was, and is, a truly international institution, and it has long been known for its tradition of liberal thinking. I remember that just before I went there, my father took me to lunch with a colleague of his. This fellow turned to me and said: "Don't turn into a Commie. You know, J.F.K. went there." 
 I didn't turn into a Commie, but I did participate in some of the student unrest during that period. Remember, it was 1967 when I arrived there, so things were pretty intense. 
I had classmates from Nigeria, Mexico, Luxembourg, Turkey, Canada, the U.K. and many other places. Going to school and living in London with my wife, whom I'd met in history class at Michigan, I got turned on to current affairs, read The Times of London every day and listened to the BBC.
I later joined Shearman & Sterling in the London office, and when I was asked to run the Hong Kong office, my background served me well. I had the opportunity to meet with Jiang Zemin, who went on to become China's president. I also became one of the first Western lawyers to represent the People's Republic of China in major commercial dealings with the West.
I don't speak a word of Chinese but I consider among my very good friends some people who speak no English. If we were in a room together, we couldn't speak a word to one another, but we would know what the other thought, having gone through a lot together.
I served as a legal counsel for the Treasury Department in the Carter administration, and one time I was negotiating with three gentlemen from the Swiss central bank over terms for selling United States government bonds in their country.
During the three or four days ofnegotiations, they would speak to one another in Swiss German whenever they wanted to discuss something privately. One day, one of them sneezed and, with my Minnesota upbringing, I said, "Gesundheit," one of the only words in German I know. From the looks on their faces, they obviously thought I had understood everything they'd said. 
As much as I love the law, I am equally enamored of the arts. I did some legal work for the MacDowell Colony in Peterborough, N.H., the country's oldest artists' retreat, and as a result I was asked to join its board. They found me to be a conciliatory force between the artists and lay people on the board and soon asked me to become president. It has been incredible. On this beautiful 440 acres are studios where writers, composers and visual artists come to work and create. I've gotten to meet Leonard Bernstein, John Updike, Martin Scorsese and William Styron.
My interest in the arts led to one other signature moment. I got an opportunity to be on "Saturday Night Live." I just had a walk-on moment in one skit. But the musical guests that night were Paul Simon and Willie Nelson, so, you can imagine, it was great to be there.

GRAPHIC: Photo: DAVID HELENIAK -- Senior partner and leader of the Shearman & Sterling law firm, New York (Star Black) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); HISTORY (77%); SPORTS FANS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); BONDS (72%); LIBERALISM (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); LAWYERS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%) SHEARMAN & STERLING LAW FIRM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: HELENIAK, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



615 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS; 
Long After Graduation, Business School Alumni Return for Job Help

BYLINE:  By KAREN ALEXANDER

 BODY:
MEGAN FRANK wasn't what most business schools would consider a particularly loyal alumna. She received her M.B.A. from the Goizueta Business School at Emory University in 2001, took a job in brand management at the Atlanta office of Eastman Kodak and didn't look back.
 Then, in April, Ms. Frank was laid off from her job. Her severance package was thin, the economy was weak, and she knew she had to look anywhere she could for leads. Through her alma mater, she found a pleasant surprise: a job. 
 Like other business schools that have scrambled to help their displaced alumni navigate shaky economic times, with varying degrees of success, Emory's employs a full-time career coach focused exclusively on the needs of graduates. 
Good M.B.A. programs have always made it a priority to help current students land their first jobs after graduation. After all, job placement rates and strong career services are the currency by which graduate business schools build their reputations. But many programs -- including state and private schools -- have decided that providing lifelong career guidance to their graduates pays handsome dividends as well.
Happy, loyal, gainfully employed alumni are more likely to help replenish a school's coffers down the road, and can be priceless conduits back to their companies for other alumni and current students.
Ms. Frank, 29, took advantage of her school's free online resources and one-on-one career counseling. And by networking at a school-sponsored happy hour in Atlanta, she landed a position as a consultant for the Zyman Marketing Group just a month after she was laid off. She describes the position as her dream job and says she is even earning more money.
Working through her business school network gave Ms. Frank an instant sense of community, and she now says she intends to repay the favor many times forward. "It's almost an unspoken obligation," she said. "Now that I've been in the situation, when someone calls on me for help, I'll do anything I can to help someone else out."
Business schools' career placement programs have long had open-door policies for their alumni. But the paltry job market of the last couple of years, and a deluge of requests from out-of-work alumni, have prompted many schools to redouble their efforts. (The unemployment rate rose to a nine-year high of 6.4 percent in June, leading even more people to ride out the job drought in graduate school.)
The schools say the alumni programs have become increasingly popular. It's difficult, though, to gauge these programs' success, because many schools have not kept track of the people using them.
Among the services for alumni are online resources, networking events and job-search seminars offered around the country, and one-on-one career coaching. As word has spread about the offerings, they have also become popular among people who already have jobs but are contemplating their next career move.
Helping alumni "has become a major issue of concern that schools need to respond to," said Sheila Steiner, director of M.B.A. career services at the David Eccles School of Business at the University of Utah. "A lot of schools are saying, 'I just finished putting away their resumes after they graduated, and now they're back.' They have seen a crush of alumni." Ms. Steiner is also on the board of the M.B.A. Career Services Council, an association of career services directors.
At Stanford's Graduate School of Business, a full-time position was created last spring to deal exclusively with the employment needs of alumni. In May, the Stern School of Business at New York University opened its Career Center for Working Professionals, with a staff of five, to work with alumni as well as the school's part-time and executive M.B.A. students.
"The typical recruiting that goes on at an M.B.A. program is by companies looking for entry-level M.B.A. positions," said Gary Fraser, assistant dean of career development at Stern. Now the school hopes to make inroads among recruiters who specialize in more experienced people as well, he said.
The Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern employs five part-time consultants (three near Chicago, one in Los Angeles and one in Atlanta) to work free with its alumni. At the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University in Malibu, Calif., the number of alumni seeking career development support has risen 25 percent in the last year. M.B.A. graduates now make up 40 percent of the people served by the business school's career resources office.
The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania now provides alumni with free access to otherwise costly online resources, like the business news service Factiva and the executive-level job search site ExecuNet. (ExecuNet, for instance, charges members $399 for 360 days of service.)
"We all got a little bit lazy during the boom years; we didn't have to get too aggressive," said Peter Degnan, who became the director of M.B.A. career management at Wharton 10 months ago after 20 years in investment banking. "Now the office has to be far more proactive for our students. And in reforming the department, we very quickly realized that the alumni world is a very important part of that."
WITH 77,000 alumni, Wharton can offer its students a powerful array of connections and networking opportunities. But at the same time, "we realized that a lot of alumni were having their own employment problems," Mr. Degnan said. "You've got to be able to give as well as take," he added.
Wharton has maintained an alumni job board for years but previously did not do much to promote it. Now, Mr. Degnan said, he is reaching out more to corporate recruiters, letting them know that "this is a really cheap, easy way for employers to tap into our talent."
So far, the number of job postings at Wharton is up nearly 70 percent since the beginning of 2002. In one recent listing, a major company was looking for a chief financial officer.
The University of Virginia's Darden Graduate School of Business Administration has maintained a career services office exclusively for alumni for five years, financed entirely through a private foundation established by the alumni. At first, about 80 percent of its patrons were employed. Now, about 80 percent of the people who use its services are out of work. 
"There's been a huge shift in the nature of what people need," said Herbert Crowder, Darden's director of alumni career services. A former banking executive who says his previous career often put him in the position of cutting people's jobs, Mr. Crowder has become a revered networking matchmaker among Darden alumni. His three-person office counsels about 750 alumni a year. "We pick up people who are in transition at a fairly tricky emotional time," Mr. Crowder said. He coaches the newly unemployed on everything from how to negotiate a severance agreement to understanding the job landscape. 
"Defining what comes next is as hard as finding it," he said. "Recent graduates should expect to take a minimum of six months to find the next job. More senior people can easily take 12 to 18 months to find their next job. They need to know that because they have to pace themselves emotionally, physically and financially. They need to get set up for the marathon that they're going to have to go through to reach the market."
With guidance from Mr. Crowder, Walter Shill, 46, of Washington, left his consulting job at McKinsey & Company to become chief executive of a start-up, Returnbuy, which was sold in March. Now Mr. Shill is consulting for another Darden alumnus whom he met through Mr. Crowder's web of alumni connections.
Mr. Shill, who received his M.B.A. from Darden in 1987, says that when he was a business student, he never considered what the school might offer him after graduation. But now he likens the experience to buying a car -- it has to work for you long after you drive it off the dealership lot.
"These days, if you're buying a car, you're buying a 100,000-mile or 5- or 10-year warranty," Mr. Shill said. "You're not going to learn everything you need to know in the first few years out of business school. I think of the career services the way I think of continuing education. It's like going in for a tuneup."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two years after earning an M.B.A. at Emory University, Megan Frank turned to her alma mater for help in finding a new job. (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ALUMNI (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BRANDING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); TRENDS (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: FRANK, MEGAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



616 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Dana Litvack, Alberto Molina

 BODY:
Dana Rolston Litvack, the daughter of Cathleen and James Litvack of Princeton, N.J., was married yesterday evening to Alberto Castano Molina, the son of Lucila Molina of San Jose, Calif., and Dr. Jaime Castano of San Diego. 
The Rev. Cyprian Consiglio, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at the Princeton Academy of the Sacred Heart.
 The couple graduated from Yale, where they met. 
 Mrs. Molina, 30, is the director of operations at Partnerships for Parks, a joint program between New York City and the City Parks Foundation that seeks to increase community involvement in the parks. From 1995 to 1997 she was a Peace Corps volunteer in the Czech Republic, where she taught English. Her father, a former lecturer in economics at Princeton University, is now an economics consultant in Princeton. Her mother, who was the executive director of the New Jersey State Democratic Committee from 1983 to 1985, is a partner in Kea Wines, a distribution company, also in Princeton. 
Mr. Molina, 33, is a technology consultant in New York. He is also a poet whose collection, "First Loves and Other Four Beat Waltzes," was published in 1997 by Topaz Press. His mother teaches Spanish, most recently at Branham High School in San Jose. His father researches and develops optics-based measurement techniques for the oil and biomedical industries in San Diego. The bridegroom's stepfather, Dr. Leslie Foster, is a professor of mathematics at San Jose State University.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by James Litvack) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RELIGION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); WRITERS (67%); VOLUNTEERS (55%); STEPPARENTS (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PEACE CORPS (57%); SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: LITVACK, DANA ROLSTON (DANA ROLSTON MOLINA); MOLINA, ALBERTO CASTANO 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



617 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Kristina Landas, Sean Herman

 BODY:
Kristina Zarris Landas, a daughter of Zenaida Zarris Landas of Woodside, Queens, and Magno Salva Landas of Jackson Heights, Queens, was married yesterday in Tarrytown, N.Y., to Dr. Sean Kirk Herman, a son of Katharine and Gerald Herman of Comstock, N.Y. The Rev. 
Ansi Boudin, an interfaith minister, officiated at the Castle at Tarrytown. 
 The bride graduated from Hunter College and the bridegroom from the State University at Binghamton, N.Y. They met at New York University, from which she received a master's degree in biology and he received his medical degree. 
 Mrs. Herman, 29, works at The New Yorker magazine. She is an associate merchandising director and the sponsorship director for the The New Yorker Festival, an annual event. Her father retired as the payroll director at the Queens Hospital Center in Jamaica. Her mother, also retired, was an administration assistant in the Department of Economic and Social Affairs at the United Nations.
Dr. Herman, 33, is a chief resident in radiology at Yale-New Haven Hospital. His mother retired as the adult development director at the Girl Scouts of the Adirondack Council in Queensbury, N.Y. His father, also retired, was the director of the Warren County Alternative Sentencing Program, a probation services and corrections program in Glens Falls, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Sarah Merians Photography) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); FESTIVALS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); SENTENCING (65%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (65%); RELIGION (57%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); ADIRONDACK COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: LANDAS, KRISTINA ZARRIS (KRISTINA ZARRIS HERMAN); HERMAN, DR. SEAN KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (87%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



618 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Renee Krasner, Nicholas Sheppard

 BODY:
Renee Michelle Krasner, the daughter of Barbara and Jerry Krasner of Massapequa, N.Y., is to be married today to Nicholas Robin Sheppard, a son of Joan and Thomas Sheppard of Hong Kong. Rabbi Renee Feller will officiate at Oheka, the Otto Kahn house in Cold Spring Hills, N.Y. 
 The bride, 30, was until last month a speech-language therapist at the Gillen Brewer School in Manhattan. She is now an independent speech therapist. She graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton and received a master's degree in speech pathology from Columbia. Her father, who retired as a social studies teacher at Samuel Tilden High School in Brooklyn, is now an accountant. Her mother teaches reading at John H. West Elementary School in Massapequa. 
 The bridegroom, 28, is an associate who works on acquisitions and advises companies owned by Bruckmann, Rosser, Sherrill & Company, an investment company in Manhattan. He graduated from the London School of Economics. His father retired as the director of information technology at Hong Kong Telecom, a telephone company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); SPEECH THERAPY (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: BRUCKMANN ROSSER SHERRILL & CO LLC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%)

PERSON: KRASNER, RENEE MICHELLE (RENEE MICHELLE SHEPPARD); SHEPPARD, NICHOLAS ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



619 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Janna Sampson; 
AmSouth Select Equity Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
JANNA SAMPSON, the lead manager of the $57 million AmSouth Select Equity fund, says it benefits from what she calls "market-power companies." 
 These companies enjoy big market shares and formidable barriers to entry, like patents, strong brand names and economies of scale, Ms. Sampson said from her office in Chicago. 
"Research indicates that high market-power companies have high returns on equity, stable earnings growth and good long-term earnings," she said. "And they typically bounce back better after market corrections." 
The Class A shares of the fund returned 7.3 percent a year, on average, for the three years through June, adjusted for a front-end load, or sales charge, of 5.5 percent. They ranked among the top 1 percent of all large blend funds, which own a mix of growth and value stocks. That group lost 11.4 percent, on average, over that time, compared with an annualized decline of 11.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
The Class A shares lost 1.1 percent in the 12 months through June, compared with a loss of 11.2 percent for the peer group and a gain of 0.3 percent for the S.& P. 500.
Ms. Sampson, 46, is director of portfolio management for OakBrook Investments, the fund's adviser, which manages about $800 million, mostly for institutions. Neil R. Wright, 56, a co-manager, is president and chief investment officer for the adviser, and Peter Jankovskis, 39, another co-manager, is director of research.
The fund is highly concentrated, holding just 18 to 22 stocks. Share prices of concentrated funds can be more volatile than those of more diversified funds.
The managers choose those stocks from a group of 140 market-power companies; typically, these are large American companies, although sometimes they are businesses that are dominant players in smaller industries. Generally, companies drop off the market-power list only when they are acquired or merged with other companies.
Ms. Sampson said the market-power group of stocks also tends to be expensive, usually trading at premiums of 20 percent to 50 percent over the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500. The managers aim to buy shares when they trade nearmarket multiples.
Over all, market-power companies tend to be "safer, more stable stocks," Ms. Sampson said. "They're not the highest fliers," she added, "but they tend to perform reliably through all different types of markets."
To identify potential purchases, the managers screen the group, looking for price declines of at least 20 percent during the last three, six and 12 months. Then they try to determine what caused the prices to fall.
When a company's problems are linked to a fundamental weakening of its competitive position, the managers do not consider them further. But "if it's a cyclical move or a stumble, that's the kind of thing that market-power companies bounce back from," Ms. Sampson said.
The managers sell shares when they regard a company's market power as deteriorating or when a single company exceeds more than 12 percent of the assets of the fund.
In March, the managers doubled their stake in the McDonald's Corporation, which now accounts for about 5 percent of the portfolio's assets. Because of the company's strong brand name and dominance in the fast-food industry, the shares are usually expensive, Ms. Sampson said. But earlier this year, the shares traded for just nine times 12-month trailing earnings, she said, because of several factors. Those included mad cow disease in Europe, which hurt beef sales across the food industry; the struggling economy in Japan, which hurt the company's sales there; and Americans' concerns about healthy diets -- which McDonald's is addressing with a new line of salads. "Shares were so inexpensive that they had nowhere to go but up," she added. 
The managers paid $16.99, on average, for the entire position; the stock now trades at $21.44. 
In March, the managers added shares of the Walt Disney Company, the media giant, which now accounts for more than 7 percent of the fund. The Disney shares were selling cheaply, Ms. Sampson said, because of "trouble with their television ratings, their movies and their theme parks, which were whacked by the Sept. 11 attacks." She added that she expects all three businesses to rebound.
They paid $16.80, on average, for the entire position; they now trade at $21.29.
ANOTHER fund holding, the American Power Conversion Corporation of West Kingston, R.I., is a dominant player in power supply products for small to midsize businesses. It provides surge protectors and other power management products for computers and electronic devices.
The fund started buying shares in October 2002, Ms. Sampson said, after the price dropped more than had been warranted by a downturn in the company's sales. Moreover, she said, the company has "one of the cleanest balance sheets that we've ever seen in a technology company, and high cash flow."
The fund paid $12.87, on average, for its shares, which now trade at $16.77.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janna Sampson said the stocks in the fund's portfolio are "not the highest fliers, but they tend to perform reliably through all different types of markets." (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) Chart: "AmSouth Select Equity" Category: Large blendNet assets: $57 millionInception: September 1998Managers: Janna Sampson, Neil R. Wright and Peter Jankovskis, since inceptionMinimum purchase: $1,000Portfolio turnover: 38%3-year load-adjusted annualized return through June (Class A shares): +7.3%Category average: -11.4% Sector breakdownIndustrials: 30%Consumer staples: 30%Consumer discretionary: 27%Health care: 7%Materials: 5%Other: 1% Fees (Class A shares)Front-end load: 5.50%Deferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.71% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); RANKINGS (71%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: AMSOUTH SELECT EQUITY FUND 

PERSON: SAMPSON, JANNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



620 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Let's Make a Deal: My Soap for Your Piano Lesson 

BYLINE:  By WARREN ST. JOHN

 BODY:
LIKE any number of disenchanted, deskbound New Yorkers, Dan Bollinger dreamed of quitting his job and starting his own business. Mr. Bollinger, 33, an accountant at an interior design firm, had an idea -- turning his hobby of making all-natural soaps into a full-time enterprise -- but he lacked money to get the business off the ground and out of his kitchen. He did, however, have lots of soap -- bars and bars of the stuff, curing in the nooks and crannies of his Brooklyn brownstone.
 One afternoon, Mr. Bollinger logged onto an online classifieds site, and offered to trade a few bars of strawberry seed and cinnamon oil soap for a set of metal shelves he thought he could use for storing the soap scattered around his home. Mr. Bollinger's offer of eight bars of his soap was accepted, and he had a deal. 
 Since that first fateful transaction in April, Mr. Bollinger has traded his soap for things like soapmaking equipment and the design of the logo, packaging and Web features for his fledgling company, Dirt Bag Soap. (His motto: Don't Be a Dirt Bag.) The company is now up and running, and Mr. Bollinger says he has plans to leave accounting for full-time soapmaking. More than three-quarters of his start-up costs were covered by bartering, he said, and the transactions were almost always easygoing. 
"I say: 'That's worth six of my bars. What do you think?' And they say, 'I was looking to get eight bars,' " he said. "If they think it's worth an extra bar, I'll always give it to them."
For some cash-poor young professionals, this is what the new economy has come to: trading whatever -- talents, time or simply that dusty and seldom-used George Foreman grill under the sink -- for someone else's whatever. Fee-based barter Web sites have popped up in the last couple of years -- barteradvantage.com, for example, and barteringconnection.com -- but for the young urban swapper, the happening marketplace is under the free bartering category at craigslist .org, the online classifieds community, which started in 1995 by listing Bay Area events and has now spread to 23 cities.
Postings under the Craig's List barter category have increased 200 percent in the last year to 20,000 a month, said Jack Buckmaster, the company's chief executive.
Lawrence J. White, a professor of economics at the New York University Leonard N. Stern School of Business, said the advantages to bartering are simple: tax avoidance and what economists call price discrimination.
"I trade my goods and services for your goods and services, and implicitly we're selling to each other at lower prices than if we had a cash business," he said. "It's a way to offer a special deal in a special way." 
Bartering activity, Mr. White said, usually waxes and wanes with the economy. "You find more of this stuff going on in not-so-good times," he said.
Joan Ferreria of the Bronx, 19 and unemployed, has traded his Web design skills for a computer keyboard, as well as piano, photography and driving lessons. For giving Spanish lessons, he has banked two 30-day unlimited ride MetroCards. 
"You can post virtually anything, and someone will eventually get back to you with whatever you want," he said.
Many obsessive barterers, though, seem driven less out of economic than psychological need. Posting a barter ad on Craig's List can be like stepping into an episode of "Antiques Roadshow," where every odd bit of junk offers a potential for drama and, if not riches, then at least some other interesting bit of junk. 
For the unemployed, idle freelancers or the existentially bored, bartering offers the possibility of a little suspense in the day.
Shari Troy, 46, a Manhattan theater professor who traded a kitchen table, two chairs and a microwave oven cart for two African masks, two wooden African statues and one African "statue slash bowl," said she bartered because it offered more chance for surprise than a straightforward cash transaction.
"You don't know what it is that they're actually offering until it's in front of you," Ms. Troy said. "If it's about the merchandise itself, bartering may not be the best way. It's about meeting the person. It's seeing what kind of items they bring into your world. It's an exchange of merchandise as well as personality."
Ms. Troy said she offered an old tennis racket for trade. She got a response from a man willing to pay cash for it, provided Ms. Troy would stand on a Manhattan street corner and conduct the transaction quickly through his car window, to accommodate his busy schedule. Ms. Troy went along, not so much for the money as for the adventure. 
"The truth was, I didn't need to get rid of the tennis racket," she said. "It was fun."
Recent Craig's List barter ads suggest ample opportunities for adventure. "My Jackie Chan Cable Flex for Your Bun and Thigh Max," reads one. Another user is looking for a "fish-head mask," and still another offers lessons in "Ikebana, the fine art of Japanese flower arranging." During the World Series last year, a San Francisco Giants fan made headlines for claiming to offer a pair of Series tickets in exchange for a vial of human sperm for artificial insemination.
Many of the ads are not for goods, but for professional services like Web design, housecleaning and massage. Other service industries are represented as well. Last week on Craig's List, a dominatrix offered to trade her services (along with "dungeon rental") for plane tickets, carpets, tiling work and an antique couch. 
Reached by telephone, the dominatrix, who asked not to be identified, said she had traded successfully for an accountant, movers and housecleaners. She had this advice for prospective barterers: 
"You need to be incredibly specific in your ad -- spell it out like you're talking to a child. Otherwise, your mailbox will be flooded with stupid questions."
Professor White of N.Y.U. said that for the unemployed and for freelancers between jobs, bartering can make economic sense. "People will find it more worthwhile to do when the opportunity cost of their time is less," he said.
That describes the situation of Suzanna Bowling, 45, a sailor who is planning an around-the-world voyage aboard a 70-foot gaff-rigged schooner docked at Chelsea Piers. With idle time before her trip, Ms. Bowling has been trading day sails in New York Harbor for electrical-engineering work on her boat and a high-resolution scanner for her computer. (She also bartered her 1984 BMW for an Apple laptop.) 
Ms. Bowling says she barters as a lifestyle choice as much as out of economic need.
"I think we live in a society that places too much emphasis on the value of money," she said. "We are a throwaway society, and we don't realize that something that is a throwaway to someone might be of value to another."
Transactions do not always go smoothly. For one thing, there are dishonest traders. Mr. Buckmaster of Craig's List acknowledged, "There is a tiny and growing number of scammers." He added: "Most scammers aren't going to take the time and effort to do a trade. They're generally looking for cash."
Then there are the unreliable people. Vincent Amorando, a Californian in Hollywood, has been offering to trade guitar lessons on Craig's List. He said he gets e-mails from people who seem excited about a deal but who do not follow through. 
"It might be kind of an impulse thing," he said. "Either that or I'm sending creepy e-mails back, but I don't think so. It's a little disheartening."
Mr. Bollinger, the soapmaker, said that in his experience, other barterers fail to show up at their scheduled appointments about half the time. "There are a lot of fake-os out there," he said.
Those who do follow through can run into other problems. Barterers trading for services have no guarantee that the people they are hiring are actually qualified to do the work. Then, there is the problem of agreeing on a price and squaring needs. 
Nancy Taylor, a graphic designer in Manhattan who was bartering with Mr. Bollinger, said she was happy to do designs for his new company but she simply didn't need so much soap.
"I'm not that filthy," she said.
Mr. Bollinger and Ms. Taylor compromised. She took a few bars of soap and gave Mr. Bollinger a list of things she wanted in the hope that he could trade soap for them.
Professor White said that bartering could be inherently inefficient. "Cash is a lot more flexible," he said. "I could accept five cases of soap for my services, but do I have to turn around and sell the soap?"
For the obsessive Craig's List barterer, such inefficiencies may simply be part of the allure -- they offer something to talk about and more opportunities for a surprising and satisfying deal.
"Sometimes it feels like more work than it's worth," Ms. Taylor said. "But the adventure makes up for it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: TRADE-OFF -- Suzanna Bowling on her schooner, bartering with Alex Bitar, left, a photographer. He will make computer scans of her slides in exchange for model shoots onboard. Reid Stowe, Ms. Bowling's captain, right. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); SWAPPING KEYBOARDS -- Joan Ferreria taking a piano lesson from Kenny Contursi in Brooklyn Heights in exchange for his Web design services. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); TRADING UP -- Dan Bollinger in the kitchen making soap, almost a vocation now, thanks to barter. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 6) Drawing (Drawing by Ross Macdonald)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); TOILET SOAPS (72%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Barter; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: Warren St John

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



621 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Turning Foreign Aid Into an Investment

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
FOREIGN aid, done right, can be the gift that keeps on giving -- giving back, that is. And what do we call such gifts? Why, we call them investments, of course!
 Too often, Americans think of foreign aid as charity. Throughout President Bush's tour through Africa, he emphasized a moral obligation to help those in need -- the less-fortunate masses. His administration's notion that foreign aid is best delivered by private charities and religious organizations only deepens the altruistic symbolism. 
 Yet charity, for the most part, is the wrong way to think about foreign aid. If Americans want to help people overseas, they can write the checks themselves, in whatever amounts they want. There is no special need to act collectively or for the government to coordinate everyone. But left to individuals, international charity would fall short of the efficient amount of foreign aid.
Done right, foreign aid can create legions of new consumers for American goods and services. When new roads are built in sub-Saharan Africa, for example, demand is stimulated for cars, trucks and everything they carry -- all of which could be supplied by American businesses. But no single business has enough incentive to bear the huge cost, all by itself, of building those roads. Instead, it's a job for government.
From an economic viewpoint, the federal government should confine its activities to problems that private citizens, businesses and local governments cannot take on themselves. Organizing national defense, paying for basic research, taxing and redistributing income -- the federal government can do these things better than anyone. Indeed, individuals do not have enough incentive, let alone the means (except, maybe, for Bill Gates), to do these things themselves. Would you buy an M1A1 Abrams tank for $4.3 million just to protect your house?
Foreign aid requires the coordination of billions of dollars, collected as taxes,to attack problems that no person or company would tackle alone. It is therefore a proper activity for the federal government, or even a coalition of governments whose citizens might all be helped by its fruits. And given current economic conditions in the United States, foreign aid could be especially important -- not just to make us feel good about ourselves, but also as an investment.
The nation's exports have been falling in the last few years, and not solely because of the recent drop in the value of the dollar. At the same time, the goods and services that the nation imports are steadily becoming more valuable and technologically advanced. We still have even snazzier goods and services to export to the rest of the world, but that's not much good if foreigners can neither use nor afford them.
The United States sends economic aid abroad through the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, its own Agency for International Development and a few other official groups. It amounts to a tiny portion of the federal budget. In some cases, the aid has worked wonders. In others, it has appeared to evaporate.
THE debate about making aid more effective -- a favorite goal of Paul H. O'Neill, the former Treasury secretary -- has achieved consensus on only a limited number of points. But an important one is that foreign aid rarely turns into progress in countries riven with internal disputes or ruled by corrupt governments. In such situations, a different kind of aid can help a country take the first step on the ladder to better health, education and incomes: peacekeeping.
Peacekeeping is a hot topic these days. Democrats have lately been complaining about the high cost of keeping troops in Iraq. They have a right to groan that the Bush administration low-balled its estimates by nearly $2 billion a month, especially at a time when money is tight. But if the troops' presence leads to a stable government and vibrant economy, it could be money well spent on a market of about 25 million consumers, many of whom enjoyed a relatively high standard of living in the past.
Of course, that sort of market also benefits the world's other exporters, rich and poor. For that reason, at least from an economic perspective, they ought to share some of the costs.
At the moment, contributions to peacekeeping efforts around the world are based on idiosyncratic, political factors. There is often little connection between investment in peace and economic return. To align those incentives would require more than the voluntary contributions of troops and money upon which the United Nations and other multilateral organizations rely. Perhaps a grander, more comprehensive form of coordination is in order.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Not as Helpful"International affairs budget as a percentage of budgeted expenditures. Graph tracks budget as a percentage from 1984 through estimated 2003. (Source: Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); BONDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US DOLLAR (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TRENDS (68%); CURRENCIES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); RELIGION (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



622 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
There's No Way To Justify These Fees

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
MUTUAL fund investors may get more information about the cost of owning shares if legislation that passed a House of Representatives committee last week gets through Congress this year. But a provision in the bill that would have required fund companies to disclose how a fund's costs compare with those of its peers, and with a market index, was withdrawn after lawmakers on both sides of the aisle objected.
 As a result, investors will not get the clearest picture of how much they are overpaying to own funds -- even though the bill is called the Mutual Funds Integrity and Fee Transparency Act. 
 "I'm disgusted that this provision, which would have had a profound impact on fund fees, didn't even see the light of day," said Mercer Bullard, a securities law professor at the University of Mississippi and president of Fund Democracy, a watchdog group. "I hope the Senate will find its way to take on an industry where some shareholders are paying 9 or 10 times as much for an index fund as they should." 
Why do investors pay dearly for commodities like money market funds or funds that mirror the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index? Ignorance, inertia or perhaps a combination.
To illustrate how much money investors in some funds are handing over to rich fund operators, Fund Democracy and the Consumer Federation of America commissioned a study of fees in index funds and money market funds last year. It focused on those that levied higher costs than the fees charged by the Vanguard Group, considered the standard for low-cost, efficient index funds. Morningstar Inc. conducted the study and compared expense ratios, or the fees of running the funds.
Morningstar found 57 index funds that charged more than the 0.18 percent -- or 18 basis points -- charged by Vanguard. The average fee at these funds last year was an astonishing 0.77 percent. The study reckoned that shareholders overpaid by $140 million to own these funds, which an orangutan could run.
THE study found 65 money market funds that charged more than the 0.33 percent fee for Vanguard's Prime Money Market fund. The average expense ratio among the funds was 0.97 percent; their shareholders overpaid by $160 million to own them. (Morningstar's data includes only a fraction of money market funds, so the overpayment is vastly understated.)
Among index funds, shareholders in four offered by Morgan Stanley, with expense ratios of 0.50 percent to 1.5 percent, paid the most. The funds had almost $2 billion under management last year, so shareholders overpaid by $22.6 million, the study said.
Among money market funds, an American Skandia fund, ASAF Money Market B, had fees of 1.89 percent last year. Its investors paid $2.3 million more than they would have in the Vanguard fund.
"Our fees reflect the value of providing advice through highly trained financial advisers," said Andrea Slattery, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman. At T. Rowe Price, whose index fund has an expense ratio of 0.35 percent, a spokesman said most of the fee covers the fund's operating expenses; a Dreyfus Funds spokeswoman noted that the expense ratio of its index fund, 0.50 percent, was below the average in the study. Michael Arcaro, spokesman at Prudential Financial, which acquired American Skandia last May, said that Prudential was reviewing each fund.
With index funds coming off three bad years and returns on money market funds in the cellar, exorbitant fees like these should awaken shareholders.
Charging outsized fees should also worry fund directors who have a fiduciary duty to shareholders. "How could a fund director in good conscience or consistent with federal law sign off on a 200-basis-point expense ratio on an S.& P. fund?" Mr. Bullard asked. 
What an excellent question.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Paying Too Much?"Owners of these S.& P. 500 index funds paid more in 2002 than they would have in Vanguard's fund. Morgan Stanley, A,B,C,DEXCESS PAID, IN MILLIONS: $22.6 One Group, A,B,CEXCESS PAID, IN MILLIONS: 9.9 DreyfusEXCESS PAID, IN MILLIONS: 8.1 T. Rowe PriceEXCESS PAID, IN MILLIONS: 5.2 ASAF Sanford Bernstein Managed Index A,B,C,XEXCESS PAID, IN MILLIONS: 2.3 (Source: Source by Morningstar, Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TRENDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%); AMERICAN SKANDIA LIFE ASSURANCE CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (56%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



623 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
The Plain OldC.D. Meets Its Worldly New Cousin

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
YIELDS on bank deposits are stuck at their lowest levels in decades, but one bank is going out of its way to seek higher returns for account holders -- to the other side of the world, in fact. 
 Since 2000, Everbank, a small bank in St. Louis, has offered a wide range of savings accounts and certificates of deposit denominated in foreign currencies, including the euro, British pound, Swiss franc andmore exotic fare like the New Zealand dollar and Chinese renminbi. 
 Everbank, a division of First Alliance Bank of Florida in Jacksonville, calls itself a branchless bank, serving clients only by mail, phone and the Internet. It offers accounts in 17 individual foreign currencies and six accounts that pool currencies from countries linked by geographic or economic themes, like Eastern European states that are about to join the European Union or countries whose economies rely heavily on industries like energy or mining. For most C.D.'s, there is a $10,000 or $20,000 minimum investment and a fixed term of three or six months, stretching to nine or 12 months in some instances. 
Minimums are lower for instant-access savings accounts, but the interest on these accounts is mostly negligible.
The bank wants to capitalize on the decline in the dollar over the last year and a half and the fact that many foreign deposits pay higher interest rates than the average of about 1 percent on one-year C.D.'s in the United States. One-year C.D.'s denominated in New Zealand dollars, for instance, were recently yielding 4.63 percent, and the currency has appreciated 20 percent against the American dollar over the last 12 months. Anyone who opened an account in New Zealand dollars a year ago would be about 22 percent richer after factoring in total currency conversion costs of about 1.5 percentage points.
But anyone who opened an account in mid-June in virtually any foreign currency would have had losses. The dollar has made a comeback, rising nearly 4 percent against a basket of global currencies, with some of the biggest gains recorded against European currencies.
"Had you been in euros outright over the last 18 months, it would have been the best investment out there, except for some hedge funds, but there's certainly volatility to that market," said Shawn Samperi, a national director of the investment advisory group at PricewaterhouseCoopers, which looks after the financial affairs of wealthy individuals.
SINCE the beginning of the year, demand for the accounts has been strong. Everbank reported a 124 percent increase in deposits held in foreign currencies in the first six months of 2003. Despite such growth, major banks have not rushed to add similar accounts. Citibank, Chase, HSBC, Washington Mutual and Bank of America say they do not offer them at their retail banks, although they may be available to clients of their private banks or overseas divisions.
To savers looking for a boost in yield or investors and speculators seeking capital gains, changes in currency values can have much impact. In opening foreign-currency accounts, buyers should realize that they may end up with less money than they started with.
"People need to understand what they're getting into, the way the products work, the risks involved and the growth potential," said Susan Hirshman, a planning strategist at J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management in New York. "The question is, what are you looking for your cash to do? Most people are looking to maintain their principal, for their cash to be available for emergencies or for very short-term goals."
Frank Trotter, Everbank's president, said he was trying to attract investors who have sorted out their basic banking needs and are looking for alternative ways to use risk capital. The foreign-currency accounts are intended as replacements for some holdings in a sophisticated investor's portfolio, not as substitutes for conventional savings vehicles.
"Our customers are self-directed investors, the type who will buy individual stocks and bonds," Mr. Trotter said. "And they do not just buy U.S. opportunities; progressively over the years they are likely to invest abroad."
He said that while it was possible to invest in foreign currencies in other ways -- through international bond mutual funds, for example -- his clients tended to want to buy specific currencies themselves, rather than relying on fund managers to choose them. He also said short-term deposits stood to perform better than longer-term bonds if interest rates continued to rise from their historically low levels.
The risks of foreign-currency investment are stated on Everbank's Web site, but they may not be immediately obvious. Ms. Hirshman expressed reservations about the site's prominent mention that the accounts, like those denominated in dollars, are backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Although relevant Web pages explain that the guarantee relates only to bank solvency and not to any losses from adverse foreign-exchange movements, Ms. Hirshman worried that the distinction might be lost on less-sophisticated investors.
Mr. Trotter said that before foreign-currency accounts are opened, the bank discusses the risks with the clients and checks to see that the accounts are appropriate. 
"We are in this for the long run and want to provide people with an economic background to make decisions," he said. "This is not a product we promote, and we don't believe these are for everybody. We do a suitability review and turn down some applicants. We are like a broker looking at a total portfolio."
Ms. Hirshman advises people who are considering such accounts to decide if the accounts are suitable for their asset levels and investment styles. She recommends that investors create a core portfolio with 80 to 90 percent of their assets and to treat the rest as "fun money," with which they are "willing to take more risk, looking to make a quick buck" -- a category that would include the overseas accounts. Ultimately, Ms. Hirshman said, the most prudent course may be to leave foreign-currency accounts to those who have already made a few bucks.
"They may be a good thing to own for high-net-worth individuals who have more cash to risk and are looking for a bigger return," she said. "But are these really appropriate for the ordinary affluent investor who needs six months of cash?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Trotter of Everbank, which offers foreign-currency savings. (Bill Stover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (86%); BONDS (79%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BRITISH POUND (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: BANK OF FLORIDA CORP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (51%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%) FIRST ALLIANCE BANK OF FLORIDA 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

PERSON: TROTTER, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



624 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Europe and America, Partners (Sort of)

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
EUROPEANS and Americans have clashed over issues as old as how to end the bloodshed in the Middle East and as new as whether to pursue nanotechnology, the manipulation of matter at the molecular level.
 So it is little surprise that they would disagree over the future of hydrogen, that most basic and ubiquitous of elements, which advocates believe will someday replace oil as the world's main energy source. 
 The surprise is that the United States and the European Union recently joined forces to develop hydrogen as an energy alternative that could fuel cars, buses, trucks and, down the road, virtually everything else.
"There's a genuine good-faith effort, and desire, to find common ground on how to power the future," said Spencer Abraham, the secretary of energy, who helped broker the trans-Atlantic agreement. 
But have the United States and Europe -- stubbornly divided on the Kyoto Protocol, genetically-modified food and other issues having to do with the environment -- really found a common cause?
Don't bet on it, say critics of the agreement, both here and in the United States. A statement issued by President Bush and Romano Prodi, the president of the European Commission, in Washington last month was vague. The two pledged to "collaborate on accelerating the development of the hydrogen economy as part of our broadening cooperation on energy."
Such bland promises of teamwork, these critics say, paper over profound differences about what a hydrogen future will look like. Despite the Bush administration's commitment of $1.7 billion over five years for hydrogen research, many energy specialists say its goals are less ambitious and more commercially minded than Europe's. And American environmentalists say Mr. Bush has seized on hydrogen, a technology whose gains are far off, to avoid taking measures that would rein in fossil fuels now. As a result, the critics say, Europe risks having its own vision compromised.
"It's a potential hijacking," said Jeremy Rifkin, an adviser to Mr. Prodi and the author of "The Hydrogen Economy," (Tarcher, 2003) which extols the potential of hydrogen. "Europe is leading in the development of a hydrogen road map for the world. This is Bush's attempt to take the lead back from Europe. It's his answer to Kyoto."
Actually, the debate over hydrogen is more complicated than that, with sometimes contradictory political and economic interests on each side. Still, Europe and the United States approach hydrogen from fundamentally different perspectives.
Europe, a signatory to the Kyoto treaty, must sharply reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. To do that, it has set a goal of obtaining 22 percent of its electricity, and 12 percent of all its energy, from renewable sources by 2010. Hydrogen is critical to this goal, since it offers an efficient way of storing energy captured from renewable sources, like windmills or solar panels.
The United States has rejected setting benchmarks for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. But it is interested in hydrogen as a way to to wean itself off imported oil. That is why it is less focused than Europe is on renewable energy, and more interested in extracting hydrogen from coal or through the use of nuclear power. 
To skeptics in Europe, the American policy looks like a backdoor way to bolster two old energy industries. "We don't trust the U.S. government," said Stephan Singer, the head of climate policy at the World Wildlife Fund in Brussels.
In the Bush administration's energy bill, which is scheduled to be debated in the Senate this week, the coal and nuclear-power industries stand to gain far more money in subsidies than would be earmarked for research on renewable energy. Europe's spending on renewable energy dwarfs that of the United States.
But this picture of a fuel-addicted Uncle Sam, so popular in Europe, misses some nuances. The American auto industry certainly seems serious about developing hydrogen-powered cars. And America is leading Europe in the development of fuel cells, which convert hydrogen into electricity.
Nor is Europe immune from those with an essentially commercial (as opposed to environmental) interest in developing the use of hydrogen. France and Spain have deeply rooted nuclear industries, influential at the European Commission. Europe has also lagged in giving incentives for the development of fuel cells.
European officials reject the accusation that they are ceding the initiative in hydrogen development to the United States. The Americans and Europeans differ only on approach, not substance, they say. Indeed, they note that Brussels has already persuaded Washington to include the commitment to renewable energy in the statement issued by Mr. Bush and Mr. Prodi.
"We can fight about Kyoto another time," said Alessandro Ovi, a senior advisor to Mr. Prodi. "There shouldn't be competition on how to get to the hydrogen age."
Mr. Abraham also denies that Americans will dictate the agenda. "We're going to work together where it makes sense to work together," he said. "Nothing in what we've agreed to requires collaboration in every area of the hydrogen economy."
The good news, perhaps, is that arcane discussions about how best to extract hydrogen or what standards to impose on it tend to cause less rancor than, say, the Middle East. "We're the problem solvers," Mr. Abrahamsaid. "We're not fighting. That's for the foreign ministries." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); HIJACKING (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (54%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROMANO PRODI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



625 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2005 words

HEADLINE: A Roseanne Wrapped in an Enigma 

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: PALOS VERDES, Calif. 

 BODY:
IN her home here the other day, Roseanne Barr was drinking warm hazelnut coffee and talking with her son Jake Pentland about the reality of a man named Ted. This man, Ted, whose last name is Jessup, is a producer Ms. Barr hired to help her create a cooking show. This might seem to qualify Ted as real, if less than cautious in his choice of employers.
 But Mr. Jessup is also a character in a television series, which is where things get a little meta. And this is where Ms. Barr has come to question whether he is exactly what you and I might call real. 
 Mr. Jessup, who has spent most of his career behind the scenes, will appear as a producer named Ted Jessup on "The Real Roseanne," a reality show about Ms. Barr's attempt to create and sell a cooking show. The reality show, which Ms. Barr created with a company called Actual Reality Pictures, goes on the air Aug. 6 on ABC. The cooking show, "Domestic Goddess," which she is also creating with Actual Reality Pictures, begins Sept. 20 in the witness protection program called ABC Family, where an actor can disappear. 
In other television eras, the inverted relationship between the two shows, in which the show is secondary to the show-about-the-show, might have been described as the tail wagging the dog. But in these late days of reality television, it is simply grounds for metaphysical intrigue. Specifically, Ms. Barr wondered whether Mr. Jessup might be a plant placed by a producer of the reality show to sabotage the cooking show -- and thus make good reality television.
"They hired people that they thought I would scream at," Ms. Barr said. "And we didn't see that we were played till we ended up with the unairable pilot show. We're like: 'Oh my God, I see now why the people they hired were all pretty much incapable.' " Ms. Barr also used other epithets to describe the pilot, but you will not read them in this newspaper.
"The Real Roseanne," on which viewers will see Ms. Barr freely hiring Mr. Jessup, even after he says that her cooking show should be about "war and, you know, poisoning the earth and child abuse and class consciousness and racism," is Ms. Barr's first adventure in network television since the hugely successful run of "Roseanne." That sitcom, broadcast from 1988 to 1997, broke ground for its depiction of imperfect blue collar characters and earned Ms. Barr a reputation as a human death star.
Without giving too much away, what you see on "The Real Roseanne" is Ms. Barr (who in real life is a smart, driven, possibly vainglorious woman with a prime-time reality show) as an insecure, tentative woman trying to return to television through a low-budget cable cooking show.
And what you might see if you went to her home, in a gated community outside Los Angeles, is a woman in a red dress with a puff of doughnut sugar on one shoulder, describing a cast: 
* The Roseanne on the reality show as someone playing "characters," including a Beverly Hills matron, a punk rocker and an imperious celebrity.
* The Roseanne on the cooking show as leading a below-the-radar search for God.
* The woman in the red dress as a new Roseanne, tamed through decades of therapy and meditation inspired by the cabala.
* Her co-producer on the reality show, R. J. Cutler, as just the sort of guy who would throw chaos and an incompetent staff at her to watch her react.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Cutler, who is producing both shows with Ms. Barr, said that of course he did not deliberately try to yank Ms. Barr's chakras. "No, absolutely not," he said. "Sometimes I wondered how happy I was that there was somewhat of a train wreck going on on the cooking show, even though I knew it was giving material for great television."
Mr. Pentland, 25, who is a producer of the cooking show, said one of his challenges was to persuade crew members that the cooking show really existed. During development, he said, people would say to him: "Look, tell us. Tell us right now. Is there really a show? Or is this like a 'Joe Millionaire' thing?"
Such ontological questions are not new to Mr. Pentland. For much of his youth he was asked whether John Goodman, who played Ms. Barr's husband on "Roseanne," was a good father.
Of course, if you were party to the conversation at Ms. Barr's home and were a member of the press, it might occur to you that it, too, was a performance -- because that is the nature of celebrity interviews, even when they are presented as real conversations -- and that Ms. Barr has the same motivation for manufacturing conflict that she attributes to her co-producers. That is, six years after her exhibitionistic, often tyrannical behavior wore out both the television industry and the audience, the potential for more of the same is precisely what she has to sell. In the netherworld of reality television, which thrives on showing people at their worst, some people are betting that the promise of Ms. Barr's worst is still something special.
Sitting at a table off the living room, Ms. Barr discussed the question of tyranny with her son.
When he was growing up, Mr. Pentland said, he never saw his mother as a tyrant. "It was just hard that her reputation was tyrannical," he said. Whenever he met people, he said, they felt compelled to remark that he seemed . . . well, normal.
"I'd love to make a big story out of it," he said, "but it wasn't that bad. Now it's bad."
"Why?" Ms. Barr asked.
"Well, working with you is bad because now you're tyrannical. Somehow everything's my fault."
At 50, divorced, the mother of a 5-year-old-son, Ms. Barr negotiated this exchange with a combination of therapeutic implacability and professional wit. Her face, once the most popular on television, looks chiseled on the site of its former self, reflecting extensive cosmetic surgery undertaken, she has said, to obliterate the image of her father. Her conversation smushes salty profanity with the language of recovery. "I just don't want to go to hell -- that's my goal," she said.
It has been more than a decade since being Roseanne meant grabbing her crotch after singing the national anthem at a baseball game and publicly accusing her parents of molesting her as a child, which they denied. Now she described those years in terms germane to reality television.
"I couldn't tell what was inside or out," she said. "I couldn't tell if it was outside me or inside me or private or public. I just didn't have any boundaries at all. And I do now."
About five years ago, she said, after progress in therapy, she dropped in on her parents, breaking a long silence. "Talked about it, tried to get to a peaceful place with it," she said. "Some things you can't fix, though."
The characters she "does" on the reality show, she said, are the same ones that she once described as multiple personalities and that she said used to torment her against her will. Because she gives no indication that she is "doing a character," it is impossible to tell where one ends and another begins.
The decision to use the characters on the show involved counsel with a higher power. "My shrink said, put them all on there," she said.
Since "Roseanne" went off the air, chased at the end by poor reviews and plummeting ratings, Ms. Barr has tried unsuccessfully to create an American version of "Absolutely Fabulous" and was the host of a syndicated talk show that lasted through two years of middling ratings.
For ABC, which previously declined Ms. Barr's offer to create a "Roseanne" spinoff, this history makes Ms. Barr a gamble. Andrea Wong, who gave a green light to "The Real Roseanne" last September, said it was an easy decision, notwithstanding Ms. Barr's reputation. "Look, she has a legacy on ABC," said Ms. Wong, who is the network's senior vice president for alternative series and specials. "She's a great brand. Everyone thought it made sense."
Ms. Wong said no one at the network had warned her away from Ms. Barr. "I personally have never seen her as a raging tyrant," she said. Though she would not discuss Ms. Barr's compensation, Ms. Wong said the show was consistent with the no-star economics of reality television, and cost the network about as much as its other reality shows, including "The Bachelor."
Since the success of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" on ABC in the summer of 1999 and "Survivor" on CBS in the summer of 2000 -- both became No. 1 shows -- the networks have made unscripted television a regular part of their summer schedules. But so far this season there have been no reality hits on such a scale. Among the new shows introduced this summer, NBC had a modest success with "The Restaurant" last week, which ranked No. 31 in the Nielsen Media Research ratings, as did CBS with "Cupid," which ranked No. 34. Both shows were outperformed by reruns of "Friends" and "Will & Grace."
Ms. Barr's late arrival to the reality game is an odd fit for the genre. Since she has already exceeded the public appetite for revelation, what is the value of a show that promises to reveal more?
"The goal here is not revealing," Mr. Cutler said. "It's about telling a story. Here's a woman who was at the height of the entertainment industry. Now she has a strong need to be in the public eye. What does she do now, and why does she do it?" (Though of course what viewers will see is a woman already back on television, courtesy of a reality show that she runs and that bears her name.)
If the essence of reality television is shame, the subgenre of celeb-reality programming relies on playing familiar figures against type. The bat-eating Ozzy Osbourne appears as suburban dad on "The Osbournes"; the self-deluded M. C. Hammer proves the voice of reason on "Surreal House"; Private Coolio takes orders on "Celebrity Boot Camp." For Ms. Barr this means making nice. With "The Real Roseanne," she said, "I wanted to come back to work and see if I could do it and if it would push my buttons and I would fall into all the old satanic behavior that I used to display."
"But now," she said, "I'm like, O.K., I've got meditation and relaxation, and I just want to live through it and not have my buttons pushed and see if I could do it."
She allowed that this was not necessarily playing to her strengths, either as a character or as the, shall we say, force behind the two shows. "You pay a price for being nice -- that's what I learned," she said. "You get your choice of being a tyrant and having success or being nice and not." In three hours of conversation, she described niceness exclusively as a personal quest, not as a solace to the people around her.
But reports of her good behavior may be somewhat exaggerated. Mr. Cutler, who described his working relationship with Ms. Barr as smooth, referred only obliquely to the artist formerly known as Satan. "There were some things I heard about Roseanne through her legend, but also we found true during the making of the show," he said. "Some days she wins her battle, and some days she loses it. On days she loses, it's less pleasant."
On one of those days, Mr. Jessup joined the long and very real list of producers she has dumped. Such is real life.
But "The Real Roseanne" faces a bigger conceptual hurdle than the niceness gap. Because Ms. Barr is both boss and subject, the storyteller and the story, there is little space for the crossed purposes that distinguish reality television from professional wrestling. The action feels performed rather than observed, stage-managed even if not scripted. And in Ms. Barr's case, performed by a professional.
In the matter of the reality of Ted, then, it is worth considering some more possibilities:
* That when Mr. Jessup, who is very funny, says, "I'd do a show just making fun of Mormon women," he is auditioning not just for a job on a Podunk cooking show but for a role on a network reality show.
* That Ms. Barr, in hiring him, is not unaware which show pays the bills.
* And that the lady-in-red Roseanne, complaining at her Palos Verdes table, did not get to be a former big star by missing tricks.
Oh, the reality. At least you know the doughnut sugar is real.

GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW FACE ON THE TRUTH -- Roseanne Barr, at left in her home in Palos Verdes, Calif., is attempting a comeback with two new reality-bending television shows. Inset, Ms. Barr on the set of "The Real Roseanne Show." (Photos by Monica Almeida/The New York times; inset, Craig Sjodin/ABC)(pg. 1); TRUTH AND DARE -- From top, Roseanne Barr at the Lane Bryant intimate apparel show in February, after performing the national anthem in San Diego in 1990 and with John Goodman, who played her husband, on "Roseanne." (From top, Photos by Evan Agostini/Getty Images, Associated Press, and ABC-TV)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (71%); WITNESSES (52%) Television

ORGANIZATION: WITNESS PROTECTION (55%)

PERSON: Roseanne Barr; John Leland

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



626 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2407 words

HEADLINE: The Wal-Mart Way Becomes Topic A in Business Schools 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
WAL-MART isn't just a place for bargain hunters. It's also one-stop shopping for professors. At universities across the country, interest in Wal-Mart Stores has soared in the last five years, and all sorts of courses address specific questions raised by the company's dominance. It is, increasingly, an example of what to do -- and as some professors see it, what not to do. 
 Just as Wal-Mart, the $244-billion-a-year retailer, has put countless rivals out of business, Wal-Mart, the case study, has shoved aside General Motors, Sears and other companies as the paragon of business prowess. 
 "It's the awe that General Motors used to have, when people would say, 'Not everybody is General Motors,' " said Eugene Fram, a professor of marketing at the Rochester Institute of Techonology. "Now you have to say, 'Not everybody is Wal-Mart.' " 
Some professors hold up Wal-Mart as an example of how to do things right or to explain important concepts. Professor Fram, for one, uses Wal-Mart to illustrate ideas like "channel commander," a term for the distributor with the most power. And to Uday M. Apte, an associate professor of operations management at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, "no company better illustrates the principle of 'cross docking,' " a technique to minimize trucking expenses.
Others turn to Wal-Mart to highlight social problems that may be overlooked in the shopping scramble -- issues like the impact of goods that are made abroad and sold cheaply in the United States. "Most of the issues we discuss with Wal-Mart as an example really have broader applications," said David A. Anderson, associate professor of economics at Centre College in Danville, Ky. He leads students on trips to the local Wal-Mart as part of the course.
Some of the scholarly interest is to be expected: no large company escapes scrutiny, and Wal-Mart has often been in the news over everything from its labor practices to its recent decision to extend its antidiscrimination policy to gay employees. 
Wal-Mart's rapid growth the last decade has also placed more of its stores closer to academic centers like Boston, so professors who once might have had only a theoretical knowledge of its operations can now see them in action. 
This interest in Wal-Mart has even created growth in a subindustry in materials that are useful to students. The retailer has become a best-selling topic for the Harvard Business School, which sells Wal-Mart case studies to business schools around the world. The newest such study, published in March, discusses the company's strategy for so-called neighborhood markets: building smaller stores in some areas to help Wal-Mart capture more grocery business from local chains.
IN crucial aspects of retailing, judging by the words from the lectern, Wal-Mart becomes the company to watch, to study, to emulate. Edward Fox, director of the J. C. Penney Center for Retail Excellence at S.M.U., describes it as the "800-pound gorilla" to the seniors who sign up for the marketing elective he teaches. When it comes to strategy, pricing, the behavior of competitors, the decision making of suppliers, cost structure and promotion, the Wal-Mart name always comes up.
"They make the market," he said. 
Perhaps the most specific lesson to emerge from Wal-Mart is obvious, but its impact has been enormous: costs of all kinds must be kept low so products can be sold for less. "If I've learned anything about Wal-Mart, it's that cost is king," said Professor Fox, who began studying it a few years ago. "They have an almost single-minded focus on reducing costs. It's imbued throughout the organization. They are very stingy when they buy for America and distribute products for America."
For Robert Letovsky, associate professor of business at St. Michael's College in Colchester, Vt., Wal-Mart's inventory management, through a network of scanners, computers and at-the-ready suppliers, makes it a textbook example of successful turnover -- the retail world's term for goods moving off shelves and into consumers' hands. The faster that process, the more profitable a store.
"When it comes to turnover, you want to hold up somebody who is a paragon of efficiency," he said. "And Wal-Mart is the paragon."
Many students now in college have grown up with Wal-Mart. To them, it is not a distant rural phenomenon, the way it might have been only 10 years ago. It is a place where they shop -- for school supplies, household products, groceries, gasoline and incidentals.
TO some, it is more personal than that. Some students have been forced to return to school to gain new skills because their previous businesses were destroyed by Wal-Mart's strength. "We've had several students who had small hardware or apparel stores, and as soon as Wal-Mart would come into a nearby town, it would hurt their business," said Jeffrey E. McGee, chairman of the management department at the University of Texas at Arlington. "That is one of the reasons they are going to the university, to change their career."
Other students have experienced the impact of Wal-Mart in slightly less direct ways. The 40- and 50-year-olds who are returning to school for master's degrees have worked in environments that have been deeply affected by Wal-Mart's practices. 
"Their experience at work is higher value, lower cost, every single day," said Gordon Walker, chairman of the department of strategy and entrepreneurship at S.M.U.'s Cox School of Business, who does not include Wal-Mart in his own courses. By his account, he doesn't have to. "They all manage to a spreadsheet," he said. "The amount of control they are forced to respond to is huge. Wal-Mart has contributed to that."
Wal-Mart has tried to become a force within education in its own way. Using some of the money from its vast sales, it has financed retail centers at several large universities, where the company's executives lecture and its recruiters descend to hire new talent. Among the recipients, a spokeswoman said, are Western Michigan University, Texas A&M, the University of Washington and the University of Florida.
Wal-Mart has sponsored retail centers for about nine years, according to Betsy Reithemeyer, director of the Wal-Mart Foundation, which is backed by sales from the stores. Her budget, which covers a variety of grants besides those to retail centers, is $150 million -- double the amount three years ago.
The company's profit also flows to education through other avenues. The Walton Family Foundation, controlled by the relatives of Sam Walton, who opened the first Wal-Mart in Rogers, Ark., in 1962, pledged $300 million to the University of Arkansas last year to build up its undergraduate and graduate programs. In 1998, the foundation gave $50 million to rename the business school on the university's main campus in Fayetteville after Mr. Walton, who was commonly known as Mr. Sam. 
Retail centers first appeared at colleges in the 1930's and were financed by department-store chains like Gimbel Brothers and Horne's, Professor Fram said. "They all declined in the 1960's, as the department stores started to have less impact," he said. Those retail centers still exist, but Wal-Mart has been more active in financing its centers than many department stores have been with theirs.
Sam Walton might not be happy with all the lessons that professors are taking from his business. Joseph M. Pastore Jr., a professor at the Lubin School of Business of Pace University in White Plains, will use a Wal-Mart case study in a strategy course this fall -- and he both praises and questions the Wal-Mart way. He notes that its huge success has come about in part because Mr. Walton ignored traditional thinking and built his stores in rural areas first. 
He suggests, though, that the company's spectacular growth may not be sustainable. "Wal-Mart is getting closer to the sun," he said. "They scrapped 20-plus stores for Germany because the courts there forced them to raise prices to avoid preying on small businesses." He also doubts that some of Wal-Mart's cultural hallmarks -- like the Saturday-morning chant in which workers shout "Give me a W!" -- will translate well everywhere the company wants to go. 
"Can you hear people in the Bronx: 'I'll give you a W!' " he said.
Other issues for Wal-Mart include unions, which the company has mostly avoided but which are more dominant in urban areas, as well as higher real estate costs, taxes and increased congestion that could cut into its famed efficiency.
Academics are also looking at the negative consequences of Wal-Mart when it comes to considering ethical, environmental and social issues. Professor Anderson of Centre College, a small liberal-arts college founded in 1819, began teaching his environmental economics course three years ago, with Wal-Mart front and center as a symbol of what he calls "the repercussions of buying cheap things." 
Shoppers may be drawn to Wal-Mart because of inexpensive products that have been imported from countries like China, Professor Anderson says, where labor and environmental standards are lower than in the United States. But there are larger costs, he tells his students, that are not factored into the price on the tag. 
"If we paid the full cost of the gasoline and the plastic and the health costs of pollution, all of these things would be far more expensive," he said.
Professor Anderson also teaches a freshman seminar called "Economics in an Ethical World," in which he discusses the benefits Wal-Mart brings as well as the downside. "It allows poor people to buy food and other necessities," he said. "That's the good thing. The bad thing is that it erodes downtowns and eliminates nicer stores that have better service and pay their workers better." Among the reading assignments is "Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America," part of which details the author Barbara Ehrenreich's stint at Wal-Mart.
About a year ago, James E. Hoopes, a professor of history and business ethics at Babson College in Massachusetts, began looking at what he called the symbolic aspects of Wal-Mart.
The company's approach to commerce contravenes the American dream for some people, he said. "It's a new kind of twist because it does affect the lifestyles of so many of us," he said. "It is an enormous employer, and it is identified with what's happened with America in the last 25 years." Gone are many of the high-paying skilled jobs that the automotive plants once provided; instead, people are punching a cash register at Wal-Mart for half the money, he added.
That perception of reduced opportunity carries over into spending, he says. "People have a sense of being trapped in this marketplace," he said. "You work for these low-wage jobs, and you can have your American dream as long as you buy it at Wal-Mart. So the dream is getting standardized, and downscaled, in a way that hasn't happened before."
FOR MarshallBlonsky, a professor of semiotics at the New School and Parsons School of Design, both in Manhattan, a recent trip to the nation's largest Wal-Mart, in Kansas City, Mo., shed new light on principles that he believes have long existed in retailing and the rest of society. Mr. Blonsky prowled the store's displays of Pop-Tarts, leather armchairs, DVD's and bright blue polyester fabric by the yard, which he said struck him as "America's least common denominators gathered together."
He said he did not think that all of the prices were especially low, given what the consumer received in return; the leather armchairs, made of downmarket pigskin, got his particular notice. He found the store's overall design, from its fluorescent lighting to its warning signs about shoplifting to its plain linoleum floors, conscientiously nonthreatening in its lack of style.
With closed-circuit television streaming product-moving information at shoppers and little help in making purchasing decisions except at the checkout aisles, "it is a heartless experience," he said.
He added: "It proves something I have been trying to teach for years: the indifferent equivalence of everything with everything else, for an audience that has no concern for that difference, and no discernment of quality."

From Fieldwork in the Aisles To Under the Harvard Lens
COLLEGE students who are studying business are quite likely to dissect Wal-Mart somewhere along the way. Among the courses offered at various colleges and universities are these: 
* Logistics management. Arizona State University, Tempe. An undergraduate course that discusses the use of technology in distribution centers and the collaborative planning and other coordination among Wal-Mart and its suppliers. A tour of the Wal-Mart distribution center in Goodyear, Ariz., is required as part of the class, and students write their impressions for credit.
* Economics in an ethical world. Centre College, Danville, Ky. A freshman seminar that looks at the influence of Wal-Mart stores on individuals and on downtown business areas. A theme is that if people want to preserve mom-and-pop stores, they must be prepared to pay more. Required reading includes "Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America," by Barbara Ehrenreich. 
* Retailing management. St. Michael's College, Colchester, Vt. Wal-Mart is discussed as a model of retailing, from the logistics of the supply chain to motivational programs for employees. One of the required texts, "Retailing Management" by Michael Levy and Barton A. Weitz, presents Wal-Mart as highly efficient and well run. 
* Operations and technology management. Cox School of Business, Southern Methodist University, Dallas. This M.B.A. course discusses Wal-Mart's supply-chain management as well as the more recent development of what Prof. Uday M. Apte calls "hierarchical networks," in which Wal-Mart stores called neighborhood markets act as alternatives to the far larger Wal-Mart supercenters for shoppers who prize convenience. 
All the interest in Wal-Mart has spawned something of a spinoff industry in course materials that include these case studies from the Harvard Business School: 
* Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Stephen P. Bradley, Pankaj Ghemawat and Sharon Foley discuss Wal-Mart's growth after the 1988 management handoff from its founder, Sam Walton, to David Glass and Don Soderquist. 
* Wal-Mart Neighborhood Markets. David E. Bell, Iris T. Li and Jeffrey M. Feiner discuss the development of smaller stores alongside the 200,000-square-foot discount prototypes. CONSTANCE L. HAYS

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marshall Blonsky, a professor at the New School, said that at Wal-Mart he found "America's least common denominators gathered together." (Susan McSpadden for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); CASE STUDIES (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); MATERIALS HANDLING (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (54%) WAL-MART STORES INC (WMT) 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: BLONSKY, MARSHALL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



627 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Prime Numbers: What Science and Crime Have in Common

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
WHEN Julius Caesar was touring the Spanish city of Cadiz in his early 30's, the ancient Roman biographer Suetonius reports, he came across a statue of Alexander the Great and wept beside it. Alexander at the same age had conquered the known world, while Caesar was just a minor Roman official, a source of severe chagrin to the ambitious future autocrat.
 It must be almost equally discouraging for scientists to see the graph that plots the age at which eminent male scientists make their big discoveries. It peaks at age 30 and then plummets, giving precious little time after one's hard-earned Ph.D. to get that invitation from the Nobel prize committee. The productivity of jazz musicians and painters is also highest in their mid-30's. And it's not just creativity that attains its zenith early in the male career. Crime, too, follows just the same parabolic curve. 
 Dr. Satoshi Kanazawa, an evolutionary psychologist at the London School of Economics who has studied these patterns of male achievement, believes he has the explanation. Young men in any profession are driven to seek wealth and prestige because these attributes are attractive to women. Once men's urges to start a family have been satisfied, the wellsprings of productivity, whether in science, art or crime, run dry, Dr. Kanazawa suggests.
In support of his thesis, published in the current Journal of Research in Personality, he notes that marriage seems to have a quenching effect on both creativity and crime. Scientists who remain unmarried, he says, reached their peak of productivity at age 40, much later than the wedded sort. Criminals, too, retain their productivity much longer if unwed but tend to hang up their crowbars after marriage. "Both crime and genius are manifestations of young men's competitive desires to gain access to women's reproductive resources," he concludes.
Dr. David M. Buss, an evolutionary psychologist at the University of Texas at Austin, said he agreed with the general idea that scientific productivity, writing and crime are all activities driven by men's pursuit of wealth and status. But Dr. Kanazawa's thesis, in attributing everything to a switching on and off of some male competitive drive, was a "wild oversimplification." For one thing, men need to command resources after marriage as well as before, or they will find themselves divorced. Indeed, income in the United States peaks around age 55 for men, Dr. Buss said. 
Evolutionary psychology is the attempt to relate human behaviors to the purposes for which they evolved. Since evolution's criterion for success is getting as many genes as possible into the next generation, it is reasonable to seek to understand human behavior in terms of reproductive advantage.
Dr. Buss has shown that women in many different cultures are attracted to men with money and prestige. "Scientific and artistic endeavors are male attempts to compete for status and resources, although I don't think men conceptualize it that way," he said. Evolution has built in a drive for male competitiveness and status-seeking because it is attractive to women; there's no need for the drive to be conscious.
In his recent book, "The Mating Mind," Dr. Geoffrey Miller argues that intelligence and creativity are the product not of natural selection, the struggle for survival, but of sexual selection, the struggle for reproductive advantage. The peacock's tail, a flamboyant example of sexual selection, is a costly encumbrance of no help at all to physical survival, but of great value in seducing peahens. 
Sexual selection tends to work much faster than natural selection and has a tendency toward weird excess because of a runaway reinforcing process -- the peahens, who favor long tails, and the peacocks, who have them, both have more progeny, so in the next generation even longer tails are de rigeur. 
Dr. Miller, an evolutionary psychologist, , sees human intelligence as the weirdest excess of all. We're far smarter than was necessary for just surviving in the savannah, he says, and our close cousins the great apes never needed to develop our kind of intelligence. Therefore intelligence and creativity must be the product of sexual selection: women preferred smarter men, the better singers and dancers and spell-binders, and vice versa. 
If Caesar had only known that his desire to emulate Alexander -- his spectacular conquest of Gaul, his renowned oratory, his elegant military histories, his provident reform of the calendar -- stemmed from an unconscious drive to bed more women, would he not have wept all the more?

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lars Leetaru) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); TRENDS (86%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MEN (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (67%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



628 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2676 words

HEADLINE: Has Billburg Lost Its Cool? 

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
HE listens to Electroclash music, has 40-plus pals on Friendster and creates art with discarded household paint under the moniker Scooter. So when James Edward LaForge made the big move to New York from San Francisco two years ago, there seemed to be only one choice. 
 "Williamsburg," said Mr. LaForge, a goateed 35-year-old whose arms are plastered with tattoos. "I wanted to check out the art scene and live in a large loft." Through a lamppost flier, he found just that, a 2,000-square-foot apartment onNorth 11th and Berry Streets, in a grimy warehouse that had been carved into bohemian nests. 
 Outside his door, Mr. LaForge explored the cafe society of Bedford Avenue he had heard so much about. By day, he shared war stories with other hardscrabble artists over chai and iBooks. By night, he frequented the local bars, and groaned about Manhattanites who were crossing the East River and crowding his watering holes. "We called them bridge-and-tunnel," he said, appropriating the term Manhattan residents have long used to dismiss outsiders. 
 Then the edginess started to dull. "It's a cool spot," Mr. LaForge said. "But you know what? It started getting a little old. It started to get too cool and too hip. All the hipsters were dressing the same way. Sideways trucker caps, tight T-shirts, vintage jeans and Converse high-tops for guys. And for girls: very 80's studded belts, off-the-shoulder shirts, leg warmers and asymmetrical haircuts." 
 A few weeks ago, Mr. LaForge turned his back on Williamsburg, swam against the current and landed on Avenue C, in the heart of the East Village. "As an artist, I feel more inspired here," he said. Another thought dawned on him as he unpacked that first night. "I felt like I had finally arrived in the city."
 A smattering of recent statistics, combined with an increasing amount of anecdotal evidence, suggest that Mr. LaForge is among a growing number of hipsters who are making the reverse migration from Williamsburg, back to the granddaddy of counterculture and underground chic: downtown Manhattan. 
 Although statistics pointing to migratory patterns are notoriously difficult to ascertain, a recent report by Citi Habitats, a Manhattan brokerage firm, shows that 80 percent of the new leases in Manhattan last year were signed by people who already lived in or near the city, compared with only 50 percent three years ago. The shift suggests that more New Yorkers are shuffling from neighborhood to neighborhood to take advantage of lower rents. 
 And anecdotal evidence suggests that some of this movement is back across the East River.
 "At first, we were losing them to Brooklyn," said Adam Diamond, the owner of Hart Diamond Real Estate, a Manhattan firm that bills itself as "Manhattan's leading downtown broker." "But now they are starting to come back."

The Hipster Shuffle
 Plenty of hipsters are still ardent Williamsburgers and would never live anywhere else. And many of them are skeptical about any hipster exodus from Brooklyn to Manhattan. From where they lounge, their neighborhood is as up-to-the-nanosecond as ever, if not more.
 "I don't know who made up this story," said Fabio Roberti, a partner of Earwax Records, an alternative music shop that has been on Bedford Avenue for 12 years. "Obviously, it's to the benefit of Manhattan real estate brokers, isn't it? They stand to make more money if they can turn the tide around."
 And Williamsburg is hardly over. Since the mid-90's, a growing number of fledgling galleries and fashionable boutiques have taken root where working-class ethnic communities once intersected. They offered something fresh and charmingly proletariat at the time when Manhattan seemed to fall under the spell of dot-com millionaires. The indie music scene pulsated with new sounds. Experimental galleries served up fresh names that defied easy categories. New party spaces were carved out of musty warehouses.
 But after the nth visit, at least for some, the ebony reflecting pool at Galapagos lost its novel sheen. Eateries such as the Diner, which paired upscale food withgreasy-spoon nostalgia, no longer seemed original, especially after its format was copied, not once but twice.
 To some extent, the self-proclaimed hipster capital of New York, if not the world, was a victim of its own P.R. As the neighborhood's cachet started to rise, so did rents. In 1996, the median rent for a one-bedroom apartment in Williamsburg was $800, compared with $1,600 in the East Village. For half the rent, an East Village defector could have twice as much space.
 But the gap soon started to close. During the recent economic boom, Williamsburg was outstripping most of the city in rent increases. Ads for $3,000 lofts were not uncommon. After the bubble burst, rents in Williamsburg largely held steady, while they slipped in the rest of the city.
A one-bedroom apartment now hovers around $1,600 a month, according to Kenn Firpo Realty in Williamsburg. Meanwhile, the average rent for a one-bedroom apartment in the East Village has continued declining and is now about $2,000 a month, according to Citi Habitats survey. Throw in a roommate or two to share the rent and utilities, and the difference begins to zero out. If the Williamsburg scene grew out of real estate pressures, as so often happens in this city, the reverse may be happening now.
 "It's a no-brainer," said Lionel Beehner, a 27-year-old freelance writer and musician who last month traded a three-bedroom apartment near South Second Street in Williamsburg for two bedrooms and a loft on East Seventh Street in the East Village. His share of the rent, divided among two other roommates, is now $850, compared with $725 previously, and he feels that the slightly higher price tag is more than worth it.
 "You lose a few square feet in space, but you gain a better neighborhood, a great night-life scene and a real neighborhood feel," Mr. Beehner said. "My own room is bigger. We have a dishwasher and a back yard. It's a great place to be in your 20's."
 By comparison, Williamsburg struck him as more like a third-world country.
 "My room was a closet that faced a deserted lot, the floors creaked and nothing worked," he said. "There were only a few grocery stores, and the area looked like a bombed-out war zone. It was easier to find a 70's checkered-plaid T-shirt than it was to buy a TV dinner."
 Phone calls have started pouring into some brokerage firms. "One out of every three calls I get these days is from Brooklyn," said John Chubet, a sales agent for Croman Real Estate, which specializes in downtown rentals. "A lot of artists who are starting to make money are looking to move back into town."
 Although apartments in the East Village are typically smaller than those across the river, brokers are quick to point out amenities that Williamsburg lacks, like the four Korean delis down the block or an actual bank, as opposed to a mini-A.T.M. inside a bodega.
 "People consider it a lifestyle upgrade to relocate to Manhattan," said Andrew Heiberger, president of Citi Habitats. "I think 95 percent of people who can afford it prefer to live in Manhattan. A lot of young people, and they are pretty much the ones who make up the rental market, are now realizing the inconvenience of being a pioneer. I call them the displaced Manhattanites from the dot-com era."

Is It Hot or Not?
 To gung-ho Williamsburgers, those faithful readers of Time Out New York who concur that their borough is, as the magazine put it last year, "the epicenter of all things hip," the reverse migration is almost treasonous. After all, they had renounced their Manhattan citizenship, pledged allegiance to the artists' colony across the river and were issued new passports in the form of unlimited-ride MetroCards.
 "The so-called hipsterati are very proud to be here," said Jason Jeffries, the founder of a community Web site called Billburg.com and a Williamsburg resident since 1996. "I wouldn't say they look down at people who live in Manhattan. But this is the hot neighborhood. It's got a very fresh energy because of all the young, creative types in their 20's. The beauty of the neighborhood comes from the inside out."
 "I don't even own a MetroCard," Mr. Jeffries added with a self-congratulatory air. "I have no need to go into Manhattan." 
 Predictably, when bar crawlers from Manhattan began showing up on Bedford Avenue, armed with Citysearch printouts like clueless tourists in Times Square, Williamsburgers reacted like any self-respecting New Yorker: they turned up their noses.
 "They are coming here, and clogging our restaurants and bars," said Alice Amory, a real estate agent who lives in Williamsburg. "It's annoying. It's a yuppier crowd. The neighborhood right now is at a very discovered point."
 But with the real estate tide now trickling in the opposite direction, some Manhattanites are wondering whether the hipper-than-thou posturing was just posturing. Only yesterday, they say, Williamsburg pioneers were calling their neighborhood "Avenue E."
 "Absolutely, it was envy," said Mr. Heiberger of Citi Habitats. "Nobody wants to admit they are priced out of something. This is not a slant on people who can't afford $1,400 studios. I think the Manhattan market is absurd. But when Williamsburg was hyped up as the hottest new neighborhood, the qualifier should have added: if you can't live in Manhattan." 
 Some stirrings are coming from within. If lower rents in Manhattan were not reason enough to move, some Williamsburgers are finding the tribal mentality in their neighborhood suffocating and any resemblance to bohemia lacking.
 "The Hipster Handbook" (Anchor Books, 2002) written by a Williamsburg author, list 10 species of the urban creature, ranging from the UTF (Unemployed Trust-Funder) to the WASH (Waitstaff and Service Hipster). So why, many residents wonder, does everyone in Williamsburg dress alike?
 "Everyone is trying so hard to be different," said Jess Holl, 23, an editor at Black Book, a glossy culture magazine, "but in the end, they end up looking the same. It's not the same artsy community I first saw back in 1999. When too many people hop on the Williamsburg bandwagon, it's time to get off."
 Williamsburg residents say that they are reexamining their neighborhood, and are finding themselves trapped inside a cliche. "If I see one more small dog tied in front of a coffee house" said Ms. Holl, not bothering to finish the thought.
 "I'm tired of Williamsburg," added Ms. Holl, who lives in a converted warehouse on Kent Avenue with three roommates. The East Village has so much more variety." 
 Fashionistas, in particular, say they are starving for more eye candy. "Everybody looks like they stepped out of Urban Outfitters, times a thousand," said Haesther Libbey, a fashion model. "Everybody is either an artist, a model, a photographer or some rich kid who doesn't do anything."
 Ms. Libbey is moving next month from a converted warehouse on Kent Avenue to a one-bedroom in Midtown. Her first choice was the East Village, but, desperate to get out, she "took the first thing that came." 
 Williamsburg watchers predict that the bashing is likely to get louder. In a city addicted to finding the next hot spot, few things are more damning than overexposure. The beginning of the end may have come in 1997, when Utne Reader magazine anointed Williamsburg the third-hippest in America, just behind the Lower Garden District in New Orleans and the Inner Mission in San Francisco.
 "Outside of New York, Williamsburg is still spoken of constantly as the hipsters' place, which will probably make New Yorkers disdain it more," said Ann Powers, author of "Weird Like Us: My Bohemian America" (Simon & Schuster, 2000).
 Some are even declaring the Williamsburg scene officially over.
"Williamsburg is definitely no longer underground," said Larry Tee, who started the Berliniamsburg club in Williamsburg, which is credited with popularizing Electroclash, one of the neighborhood's best-known cultural exports. But last Saturday was the final night for Berliniamsburg. "Six months ago, Williamsburg was terminally hip," Mr. Tee said. "Now it's become designated as a safe space for nice people who have boring 9 to 5 jobs."

In Search of Bohemia
 It wasn't always so. With its gritty industrial architecture and raw cement floors, Williamsburg once offered the sort of dump that only an artist could love. Save for a couple of bodegas, the streetscape was an ugly wall of roll-down gates and the stray dandelion poking through the pavement. 
 Using their bare hands, the artists installed their own plumbing, electrical and sewer lines, and transformed vacant factory floors into a maze of ramshackle bedrooms and airy art studios. But the year was circa 1979, and the artists who were the original homesteaders are light years away from the ones making Williamsburg their home today.
 "They are cranking them out of the art schools and dropping them on the L train platform," said Eve Sussman, a video artist who first arrived in Williamsburg in 1992 and counts herself among the second wave of arrivals. "The people who live in Williamsburg now are like the 10th wave."
 The pattern is familiar to anyone who has groused about SoHo's becoming a shopping destination, or about French bistros replacing the far less savory haunts of Avenue C.
 "If you look at the cycles of bohemia in New York, you have pioneers who move into a neighborhood before there is even an A.T.M.," Ms. Powers said. Artists form a beachhead that eventually catches attention, and becomes a magnet for galleries, boutiques, restaurants and bars. Then trendy outsiders start pouring in and, before long, the pioneers are priced out of their own neighborhood.
 By that measure, Williamsburg is well into the final phase, one in which deep-pocketed developers start pouring money into undeveloped property as if they were spaces on a Monopoly board. A dozen projects are currently under way on and near Bedford Avenue, the main drag. Empty lots and warehouses are being transformed into full-service residences, with names like the Williamsburg Mews, Williamsburg Gardens, Bedford Court and the Photo Gallery Building. 
 Any debate about gentrification is couched in the past tense. "Williamsburg is the hip spot to live and develop," declared Helene Lucknick, an executive vice president at Douglas Elliman and the sales agent for Bedford Court at 292 Bedford Avenue, where condominiums range from $300,000 for a one-bedroom unit to $730,000 for a duplex penthouse. "Half of the 31 units sold within seven days of showing. I've never seen this before. They were all first-time homeowners. All young professionals and artistic types. Not artists, but artistic types -- graphic designers and literary agents. It's the hottest area in New York." 
 A minor milestone was reached this month when a brownstone near the Bedford Avenue subway station broke seven figures and sold for $1.3 million, "a record sale in Williamsburg in terms of a single family home," said Ingrid Johnson, a senior associate broker at the Corcoran Group. Construction is likely to accelerate. Last month, the city unveiled a proposal to rezone large swaths of the manufacturing district to allow for residential towers.
 Robert Lanham, the author of "The Hipster Handbook," and the founder of a Webzine called Free Williamsburg, would seem like the last person to knock the neighborhood. But when Mr. Lanham, who has lived in Williamsburg since 1996, looks outside his window, he sees what he called the "paradox of hipster culture" slowly coming to an end.
 "Williamsburg is having an identity crisis," Mr. Lanham said. "It's kind of absurd that these kids who went to fancy schools are dressing like they're construction workers. The struggling artist is a myth. Williamsburg is a pseudo bohemia."
 Rather than stick around, Mr. Lanham has started an apartment hunt himself.
 "I even looked at a couple of places in Manhattan," he said. "If I can find a nicer place with cheaper rent, I'll take it. I'll go wherever the best rents take me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: APARTMENTS FOR RENT -- The new look on Bedford Avenue in Williamsburg, or Billburg, as a popular local Web site calls it. The self-proclaimed hipster capital of America may be a victim of its own P.R. (pg. 1); OLD SCENE, NEW SCENE? -- The L train station, on Bedford Avenue, top, where Brooklyn's hipsters catch the subway to Manhattan. Above, artist at work on North Eighth Street in Williamsburg, and, below, the scene on Avenue A near 10th Street in the East Village, where some one-time Brooklynites have put down new roots. (Top and above, Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times; below, Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); DRINKING PLACES (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



629 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Page Two: July 20-26; 
THE READING FILE

 BODY:
Is Bush Pulling the Wool Over Media Sheep Eyes?
 IN the August issue of Harper's, Lewis H. Lapham describes what he calls the American news media's willingness "to believe the government's reasons for sending the tanks eastward into Eden" in the eight months prior to the invasion of Iraq. 
 "The Bush administration's buncombe artists could tell any story they pleased about Western civilization being held for ransom by Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction," he writes.
Citing "The Politics of War" by Walter Karp, first published in 1979, Mr. Lapham compares the current scene to the era of the Spanish-American War and World War I. 
The sinking of the Maine in 1898 and of the Lusitania in 1915 provided "the promoters of American empire with the same sort of causus belli as was presented to the Bush administration by the destruction of the World Trade towers in September 2001," Mr. Lapham writes.
He notes that "Spain's fifth-rate colonial power in Cuba was depicted by the McKinley administration as 'the most wicked despotism there is today on this earth."' He compares Theodore Roosevelt's attacks on "ultra-pacifists," "poltroons" and "mollycoddles" to Rush Limbaugh's attacks on Susan Sontag and Harvard.
He sees similarities in "the distribution of alarmist propaganda -- Germany in the summer of 1915 said to be capable of landing, in a matter of 16 days, 387,000 troops on the coast of New Jersey."

No Longer a Relic: A Revolver Renaissance
THE revolver is maligned unfairly. It has many virtues.
So says Chuck Taylor in the August-September issue of Guns and Ammo Handguns.
The last rites to the revolver were all but said in the 1980's due to the popularity of the 9-millimeter. But over the years, revolvers have reappeared in stores and sales have inched upward. "It is still as accurate, rugged, reliable, "user friendly' and powerful as ever," he writes.
He says the revolver does not jam and can hunt any kind of game, unlike the 9-millimeter, which has limited range and power to hunt anything but small critters. 
"If, like me, you've ever faced an annoyed mountain lion on a rock ledge eight feet away, with a 9-mm. auto, you'll know what I mean," he says. "It's better -- much better -- to have a .357, .41 or .44 Magnum or a heavy loaded .44 Special, .45 Colt or .45 Auto Rim."
He admits to the revolver's one shortcoming. "It a bit tougher to shoot under stress" but this does not invalidate it as a self-defense weapon, he says.
Guns with large magazines falsely suggest that the more ammunition, the higher the odds of hitting the target. Reality suggests otherwise.
"Year after year, the F.B.I. Uniform Crime Report shows statistics indicating that there are less than five or six shots fired per encounter, which are well within the wheelgun's capacity," says Mr. Taylor. 
Later in the article he states, "Multiple misses don't count -- it's hits that get the job done."

Questions Are Raised About 1991 Civil Rights Act
DID the Civil Rights Act of 1991 improve employment opportunities for women and minorities? 
The legislation -- which significantly expanded the rights of plaintiffs in discrimination complaints on the federal level -- was basically ineffective, according to an article in the summer issue of Regulation, published by the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group.
The act fueled invalid fears about quotas and did not improve hiring "in fields with traditionally low representation of women and minorities," the authors of the article say.
The study was conducted by Paul Oyer, an Associate professor of economics at Stanford University, and Scott Schaefer, Richard M. Paget associate professor of management policy in the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.
They write that the act mainly increased the cost of dismissing workers protected by the legislation.
As a result, employers reduced their hiring of protected workers, shifted their means of dismissing protected workers toward layoffs and away from individual firings and placed a premium on protected workers who are least likely to sue.
"Firing-based protections lead employers to hire fewer protected workers, not more," the authors say.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The revolver deserves respect, the author says. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR I (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); FIREARMS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); WILD CATS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (72%); CUBA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



630 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: The Country America Cannot See 

BYLINE:  By Mun Yol Yi; Mun Yol Yi is author of "Our Twisted Hero," a novel. This article was translated by Bruce Fulton, Ju-Chan Fulton and Brother Anthony from the Korean.

DATELINE: ICHON, South Korea 

 BODY:
Today is the 50th anniversary of the cease-fire that ended the Korean War. The division of the peninsula by two "liberation" armies -- both of which seemed to hold it in no special favor -- was an unwelcome gift thrust upon the Korean people, still dazed by the emotions of liberation from Japan in 1945. The intense nuclear anxieties on the Korean Peninsula now demonstrate the lingering effects of this gift. 
 The regimes imposed by the Soviet Union and the United States on North and South Korea at the end of the Second World War evolved quite differently -- and not necessarily in the way Americans assume they did. 
 One side, thanks to a shrewd, quick-witted guardian, got what it was promised (the North). But the other side, owing to the obtuseness and confusion of its imperial benefactor, failed to develop into the strong democracy it was expected to become.
The Soviets, who had been thwarted by nationalistic sentiments while trying to export the socialist revolution to Eastern Europe in the 1920's, immediately handed North Korea over to the group led by Kim Il Sung and withdrew, leaving no military administration behind. As a result, Kim seized power without serious damage being done to his nationalistic credentials. What's more, the rapid creation of a system of one-party rule formed a good basis for the idolization of Kim Il Sung. For just as the Japanese had replaced Korea's Yi dynasty with their emperor in 1910, Kim Il Sung took the throne left empty by the Japanese emperor, who had been banished by the Soviet troops. 
In comparison with what happened in the North, South Korea's search for its proper role was chaotic and drawn out. The American forces arrived as liberators -- yet the military government they established in 1945 resembled the heavy-handed one the United States imposed on the Philippines after the Spanish-American War in 1898. 
Without regard for the nationalistic feelings among Koreans, the military administration put people who had collaborated with the Japanese in official positions. Only after three years of questionable military rule did the United States approve the establishment of an independent government in South Korea.
Those three years -- from 1945 to 1948 -- did lasting damage (in the name of democracy), bringing about at least two changes in the consciousness of South Koreans. 
First, the idea of a monarchy was completely demolished. While the other East Asian kingdoms saw a restoration of their monarchies after the Second World War, in South Korea the topic was never properly debated. Had a new monarchy been created -- or had it even been discussed fully -- South Koreans would have had an outlet for their nationalistic sentiments.
Second, there was among South Koreans an unrealistic level of belief in and hope for freedom of expression and thought. (Except, of course, when it came to discussing a monarchy.) As opposed to the North, the government in the South was obliged to permit every kind of political party in the name of democratic pluralism. 
These two factors set the stage for the Korean War. In South Korea, the lack of a strong leader and the excessive openness of society enabled the country's Communists to grow stronger and stronger. The chaos they created, the acts of terrorism they committed, made civil war inevitable. 
And here we are, half a century later. What has changed? What has stayed the same? North Korea still maintains its hereditary system of rule without any dissent. It continues along its appointed path. South Korea, on the other hand, is struggling to find itself. I have the feeling, if I may exaggerate only slightly, that we are returning to the anxieties we felt before the Korean War.
These anxieties are particularly evident in the vicious battles between left and right in South Korea over reunification and political and economic reform. With greater and greater frequency, demagogues on both sides identify their opponents as evil. 
These anxieties are apparent, too, in the widespread and intense anti-American feeling among Koreans. Anti-Americanism has always been around, but until recently it has usually been embraced by a minority only. When we see the lack of outrage among South Korean students at the fatal shooting of five of their number by the North Korean Navy -- a contrast to the repeated calls for justice for the two girls killed by American soldiers driving a tank -- we must assume there are changes in thinking among these students that go beyond simple nationalistic feelings.
We may never understand why America committed troops to the Korean Peninsula in September 1945. And we may never know, truly, why those troops have stayed here since. But I think we can say with some certainty that America never expected to find itself in its present situation in South Korea, and in particular to be treated as an enemy.
The problem of American policy toward Korea has been endlessly debated and analyzed. Still, if there is anything to add it is this: the American perspective on Korea has changed little since the end of the 19th century. As John King Fairbank, the historian, made clear in "East Asia: Tradition and Transformation," in the Pacific War America fought Japan for China; in the Korean War, it fought China for Japan.
When I first read these words roughly 20 years ago I failed to catch their full significance, but over time this sentence revealed to me the American perspective on Korea. Namely, even though America's young people fought and shed blood on Korean soil, Korea was not a part of the American consciousness. For America, Korea has always been understood as a part of China or a part of Japan.
It was the same when it came to the armistice. There were more than 3.5 million victims of the Korean War. One in 10 Koreans was killed or wounded; one in three was forced to experience the agony of living separated from family, in North or South. Yet when the armistice was signed, although China was there with its North Korean ally (having replaced the Russians), there was no place for Korea. The South Korean representative was the American general acting as commander in chief of the United Nations forces; no South Korean representative was present.
It seems that still now, 50 years later, nothing much has changed. At the recent Beijing talks on the North Korean nuclear crisis, Korea, especially South Korea, was absent. China met North Korea, and America, to discuss nuclear disarmament on the Korean peninsula, but I wonder if even there America, while recognizing the existence of North Korea, did not consider it to be part of China.
There is no more effective way for foreigners to provoke Koreans than to view Korea as part of China or part of Japan. Naturally, from this standpoint it's difficult for Americans to expect a positive response from Korea. Although it is late in the game, America must make space for Korea, and especially South Korea, in its consciousness. In East Asia there is in addition to China and Japan, Korea. A Korea distinct and separate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (68%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



631 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: A Push to Make la Difference Verboten in the New Europe 

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: LONDON, July 26 

 BODY:
Picture Italy without its curvy, half-clad television hostesses. Imagine a Western European city where men and women pay the same amount for insurance, regardless of how recklessly they drive or how long they live. Ponder going to school in Britain without Jack the engineer and Jill the nurse.
 That is what Anna Diamantopoulou, the European commissioner for employment and social affairs, envisioned in proposing far-reaching legislation to outlaw sexual discrimination in areas like television programming, advertising, insurance premiums, taxation, newspaper content and education. 
 The proposal is the boldest step by the European Commission to make a coherent social policy on everyday gender equality, an issue that is gaining momentum and causing heartburn for many large industries.
It would, in effect, push the prohibition on sexual discrimination beyond the confines of work, trade and labor, which is already regulated, into untouched realms. Why, for instance, it asks, should a woman pay more for life insurance? Or why do baby-changing stations exist in women's restrooms but not men's?
"Economic progress is no longer sufficient," said Mary McPhail, the secretary general of the European Women's Lobby. "We want much more social policy and a much wider commitment to all of Europe."
To be enacted, the legislation requires approval by the commission, which is the European Union's executive committee, as well as by the European Parliament and the union's member countries. But it may not survive criticism from lobbyists in Brussels, where the European Union has its headquarters.
The proposal is under intense scrutiny and may be watered down or abandoned, say lobbyists and union officials. It will be revisited by Ms. Diamantopoulou in September.
"It is unacceptable in its current form," said Angela Mills Wade, the executive director of the European Publishers Council, which represents 29 media companies. "If you took it to its logical conclusion, you would have to make sure your editorial content didn't describe or portray women or men in a way that could be interpreted as being discriminatory. That would severely curtail editorial freedom."
The lobbying blitz effectively slowed the bill's progress, illustrating that lobbying in the European Union, where the exercise is downright ponderous and academic, can be just as effective as in Washington, even without the American traditions of campaign donations, golf junkets to Hawaii and lavish dinners.
Dr. Catherine Hakim, a sociologist at the London School of Economics who studies women's issues, said the office of the European Commissioner for employment and social affairs had long had a "dogmatic, determined approach" to gender equality.
The commission successfully expanded laws against gender discrimination in the workplace, and it is now turning to its next challenge.
"They are constantly pushing the boat out," she said. "There is no question that they do have a role within the social field. What is more debatable and is more in dispute is, whether having exhausted the obvious avenues in sex discrimination and equal treatment, they are going well beyond the field."
Ms. Diamantopoulou's office emphasizes that she was granted a mandate to combat sexual discrimination -- along with discrimination based on age, race, disability and religion, among other things -- in 1997 under the union's Treaty of Amsterdam. The mandate dealt most obviously with the workplace, labor laws, trade, training and education.
"This is the second level of implementing the treaty combating gender discrimination outside the workplace," said Antonia Mochan, Ms. Diamantopoulou's spokeswoman.
Ms. Diamantopoulou herself declined to be interviewed. But in response to the furor her directive created, she wrote a column in The Financial Times on June 27 urging calm but defending her stance.
"I am determined to pursue it to its conclusion, in consultation with all concerned," she wrote. But lobbyists said they were appalled to find out about the directive only by reading about it in the newspaper. Most said that Ms. Diamantopoulou had overstepped her mandate.
"The problem with the proposal is that it's a blanket rule saying media should not contain any discrimination regarding sex," said Ross Biggam, the director general for the Association of Commercial Television in Europe.
Does it mean that British channels would not be able to broadcast shows about cars aimed at a male audience? If a channel runs a show on the sexiest men in Hollywood must they quickly follow with a show on the sexiest women? Or is sexy barred altogether?
The insurance industry was no less bewildered..
"It concerns so deeply the way we work," said William Vidoja, the deputy manager for the European Federation of the Insurance Industry, which represents 5,118 insurance companies.
He said insurance companies had long differentiated between men and women in calculating risk because they considered gender differences to be an "objective criteria." Women pay less for car insurance because they are safer drivers. Men pay less for life insurance because they die younger.
Changing traditional premium calculations based on gender would wreak havoc with the industry and ultimately drive customers away, he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 31, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about far-reaching legislation proposed in the European Union to outlaw sexual discrimination misspelled the name of a deputy manager for the European Federation of the Insurance Industry, who said that changing the gender component of risk calculation would wreak havoc with the industry. He is William Vidonja, not Vidoja.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anna Diamantopoulou is proposing a new set of restrictions. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); APPROVALS (70%); PUBLISHING (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



632 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Steel Barriers Reinforce a Thinner Line of Blue at Parades, and the Bottom Line 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
Nothing is more New York than a Fifth Avenue parade with screaming, flag-waving crowds held back by the familiar blue wooden sawhorse barriers and a police officer standing every few feet. Look again.
 The crowds are still there, but many of the barriers are now metal and linked and the officers are more spread out. By changing its security routine, the city saved $3.7 million in the parade season that started in mid-March and ended in mid-June. 
 The New York City Police Department, under pressure to cut costs and maintain levels of public safety, instituted the new method of crowd control at the traditional annual parades this year. By switching to the interlocking steel barriers, the department was able to reduce the number of officers assigned to the parade route, replacing them in part with more officers on blue and white scooters who can zip over in an emergency, city officials said.
The new approach was in effect for the 17 parades and 3 other big events during that three-month period, the most popular time of the year for the big street parties. The savings was achieved largely by cutting overtime more than 40 percent from what was spent on these events in 2002, city officials said.
The reduction in police officers is a function of the new barriers' design. Anyone can push a wooden sawhorse out of the way, or squeeze in between to get onto the parade route. With thousands of people crowding the curb, pressing up against the sawhorses, many did. 
But the new barriers are 43 inches tall, made of galvanized steel and latched together like a fence, so it is much harder to go over, through or around them.
In the last year, the city has bought more than 6,000 of the barriers, more than doubling its inventory. The design originated in France, said Chris Friedrichs, vice president of Friedrichs Custom Manufacturing of New Orleans, which sold some of the barriers to New York. He said the barriers first showed up in large numbers in the United States about 40 years ago at Mardi Gras in New Orleans.
There are still hundreds of officers stationed along the parade routes, and some wooden barriers are still in use. But by using more steel barriers and bringing in a larger contingent of officers on scooters, the department can have fewer officers on each block, unless there is a need to assemble more, according to the plan.
"We are using resources in a smarter way," Deputy Police Commissioner Paul J. Browne said. "We are not going to spare resources if we see any threat for any given event. But still, when you balance all the information at hand, you can use fewer officers and still have a safe event."
The city's budget crisis has driven down the size of the police force to 37,210, 3,500 fewer officers than the peak in October 2000. On top of that, 1,000 officers have been assigned to antiterrorism duties since the attack on Sept. 11, 2001.
Even with these cutbacks, citywide crime measured in seven major categories is down about 7 percent so far this year.
Parades, while a boon to the city's image, spirit and economy, have long been considered a costly strain on police resources. Deciding how much security to post at these events is an especially delicate task for the Salute to Israel Parade, because of concern about possible terrorism, and the National Puerto Rican Day Parade, because in 2000 mobs of men attacked and groped women in Central Park in the hours after the parade ended.
This year, police officials assigned a total of 11,411 officers to cover the 20 spring events, or an average of about 600 per event, although the number can vary widely depending on the size of the parade. Police officials said that even with fewer officers there was no appreciable increase in mischief or arrests. 
The directors of two of the biggest parades -- the Salute to Israel and the St. Patrick's Day parades -- said last week that they did not even notice the changes this year. Yet using more of the metal barriers saved the city at least $500,000 on each of these two events, city officials said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steel barriers, left, at the wake for Celia Cruz last week. They are harder to slip through than blue sawhorses, still in use at some parts of the St. Patrick's Day Parade last March. (Angel Franco/The New York Times); (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MARDI GRAS (78%); CITIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); OVERTIME (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



633 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: How to Vote? Let Us Count the Ways 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
There is a cynical precept of politics that says that those who cast the votes decide nothing, but those who count the votes decide everything.
 A third group, though, decides quite a bit, too: those who set the election rules. 
 New York City's election rules could be rewritten soon, if the voters approve Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to abolish party primaries in 2009. 
The mayor says his push for nonpartisan elections will lead to fairer elections. But fair can be in the eye of the beholder. While the pros and cons of the mayor's proposal will be debated in the coming months, it is worth noting that recent history is riddled with well-intentioned election reforms that ended up having unintended consequences. 
Think of the decision to hold the old community school board elections in the spring, so they would not be overshadowed in November. Voters forgot they were being held, or did not care, and turnout had to be measured with electron microscopes. 
Then there is New York's system of nominating candidates for State Supreme Court at judicial conventions, which was supposed to insulate the bench from politics. The thought now seems risible.
Or take a look at what happened with redistricting, which was supposed to preserve the one-person-one-vote standard by periodically redrawing district lines to take population shifts into account. In practice it regularly becomes an exercise in partisan gerrymandering, with the political parties redrawing electoral maps to guarantee themselves safe, uncontested seats. Redistricting, it has often been observed, turns the age-old principle of having the electorate choose its leaders on its head. 
Some scholars would go so far as to question whether any system of choosing a winner by way of a vote can truly be fair, at least when more than two candidates are concerned. 
Kenneth J. Arrow, a Stanford University economist, won the Nobel Prize in economics in 1972, in part for his work in the late 1940's and early 1950's for developing what came to be known as Arrow's Impossibility Theorem. It provided proof that there is no way to arrange an electoral system to perfectly reflect the will of the people when it comes to choosing a winner from more than two candidates.
"It was a little disquieting," Professor Arrow recalled last week, explaining that he had originally set out to find a good system.
What's the problem? Depending on how an election is structured, it is almost bound to have some imperfections from a mathematical point of view. 
In the American system, the candidate who wins the most votes wins the election, even if he (and it still usually is a he) falls short of a majority. That sounds fair. But does it accurately reflect the will of the people, to the extent it can be known?
Consider the last presidential election results from Florida. If you accept the final, much-disputed tally, it showed that George W. Bush got slightly more votes than Al Gore, and both men trounced Ralph Nader. So Mr. Bush won the state, and the presidency. But most people in Florida voted for someone other than Mr. Bush. And since most Nader voters would presumably have preferred Mr. Gore to Mr. Bush, it follows that Mr. Gore would have been a more acceptable choice to most Floridians than Mr. Bush. But second choices do not count in the American system.
A number of alternative election systems exist. A runoff election between the top vote-getters can be held if no candidate gets a majority of the vote. Such a system, though, can keep members of minority groups -- racial, ethnic or ideological -- from winning, even when they finish first in the initial count. 
In the Democratic mayoral primary in 2001, Fernando Ferrer, who forged a black-Latino coalition, beat Mark Green. But since neither man got more than 40 percent of the vote, a runoff election was held. Mr. Green won the runoff (only to lose the general election), and some of Mr. Ferrer's supporters complained that the runoff system was unfair.
Other countries use other voting systems. Many parliamentary systems use proportional representation -- an alternative to the American winner-take-all system -- in which parties are allocated seats based on their share of the popular vote. Such an arrangement gives a voice to smaller parties, giving their representatives a small number of seats. But critics argue that they create unstable governments held together by fragile coalitions.
Then there are systems in which voters rank their choices in some way. One such system of ranking candidates, and choosing the one at the end with the largest number of points, was championed by Jean-Charles de Borda, an 18th-century French scientist. And why was he interested in voting systems?
"He thought the wrong people were being elected to the French Academy of Sciences," said Donald G. Saari, a professor of economics and mathematics at the University of California at Irvine who has written several books about election theory. He said that the Borda system appears to be the fairest way of voting.
Many groups in the United States now advocate a ranking system called Instant Runoff Voting. Known by its avuncular-sounding acronym, IRV, this is a system in which voters rank their choices. If a candidate wins a majority of the vote on the first count, that candidate wins. Otherwise, the losing candidate is eliminated and those votes are accorded to those voters' second-choice candidate, and so on, until a winner gets a majority.
But changing voting systems can be even tougher than figuring out a butterfly ballot. For one thing, governing parties like to stick with the systems that brought them to power. For another, many new systems sound as if they came out of that New York State Math Regents exam, the one whose results were discounted because it was too difficult.
But it is not an academic question. Dan King, a professor of mathematics at Sarah Lawrence College, offered a hypothetical example to demonstrate how the choice of election system can actually determine the outcome of the election. 
Imagine nine people trying to figure out which actor was the best James Bond: Sean Connery, Roger Moore or Pierce Brosnan. (O.K., actually Professor King's example said that the nine people were trying to choose between candidates A, B and C, but this is not math class.) Four of them like Connery best, followed by Moore, followed by Brosnan. Three voters like Brosnan, followed by Moore, followed by Connery. And two voters like Moore the best, followed by Brosnan, followed by Connery. So who is the best Bond?
In a plurality system, Sean Connery would be the winner: he got four votes, while Pierce Brosnan got three and Roger Moore got two. But that's no majority.
But what if a runoff election were held? Roger Moore would be eliminated, because he got the least number of votes. But the Moore fans liked Brosnan second best. That would leave four voters preferring Connery to Brosnan, and five voters preferring Brosnan to Connery. Pierce Brosnan would be the winner of the 007 runoff.
And in a Borda count -- giving 1 point to the least favorite, 2 points to the second and 3 points to the favorite -- Roger Moore would be the Bond of choice.
"Three procedures, three different winners," Professor King noted.
In the coming weeks Mayor Bloomberg's Charter Revision Commission will come out with proposals for how a nonpartisan election system might work: how people will qualify to get on the ballot, whether runoffs will be held, what the thresholds will be. Some of those details could be as significant as their primary goal of abolishing primaries.
"You can skew the outcome of any election," said Burt Neuborne, the legal director of the Brennan Center for Social Justice at New York University School of Law, "depending on how you structure the democratic system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Voters at the polls in Westchester County last November. Rules affecting how elections are run can have unintended consequences. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); POPULATION DECLINE (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



634 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: To Save the City Money, Rikers Supersizes It 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration's vision of a leaner, more efficient New York City government can be found in an oven that bakes twice as many pieces of chicken in slightly more than half the time. The 6-foot-by-8-foot rotary-rack oven spins hour after hour in a kitchen that prepares meals for 6,900 inmates a day on Rikers Island, almost double the 3,500 it was built to serve just three years ago.
 Churning out that many meals means cooks like Cicely Williams have to work harder; she goes home with aching arms and swollen feet at the end of her 3 a.m.-to-noon shift. And to deliver the mass of food, pans must be stacked in an endless queue of insulated carts that are loaded into trucks that then rumble across the village of jails on the Rikers grounds. 
 But by creating super food factories, the city has been able to close five of the nine Department of Correction kitchens and save $1.5 million this year, eliminating 75 jobs. It is a drop in the bucket given the sprawling $43.7 billion enterprise that is New York City government and the $8 billion budget gap the city had faced this year. But it is one way in which that gap was closed. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg could not persuade city labor unions to agree to broad-based concessions to produce even bigger productivity savings. Having then raised property, income and sales taxes, the mayor and the City Council were under pressure to balance the budget without slashing services. 
That is where the city agencies and their commissioners came in. "Government can do things when motivated and pressed," said William T. Cunningham, the mayor's communications director, clearly implying that the agency directors were being squeezed. The Probation Department cut 41 jobs, saving $2 million, by allowing 25,000 lesser-risk convicts to check in at automated kiosks set up in the five boroughs, instead of with probation officers. 
The city expects to save another $10 million by buying in bulk food for feeding the homeless, people who eat meals at centers for the elderly, and schoolchildren. And the Bloomberg administration has vowed to serve just as many children in after-school day care services -- it currently accommodates about 170,000 -- but at a $14 million savings after it merges the management of a hodgepodge of programs into one agency later this year.
Even the city morgue has come through. Instead of two different agencies picking up and processing the dead, only one will, saving as much as $1.4 million this year.
Besides outright savings, the Bloomberg administration has pursued a second strategy to help dig out of the fiscal hole. You might call it passing the tab.
For example, the 105 centers for the aged in City Housing Authority projects, which offer everything from exercise classes to bingo, had cost the city $29 million a year. But since July 1, their operating costs have been transferred to a federally subsidized program.
Many agencies, though, did make significant cost-cutting changes. Among the most extensive were the operational rejiggering at the Department of Correction.
It was a logical place to start. Even before the enormousness of the fiscal crisis set in, the city jail system was flabby with resources because of the sharp drop in crime and a resulting decline in the inmate population, to 13,870 inmates one day last week from a daily average of 19,205 in 1997.
The first round of cuts were easy. The department simply eliminated extra capacity: five of the smaller or older jails, including the Houses of Detention in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens, have been closed since February 2000. But that was only the start.
The savings drive took Department of Correction officials into the kitchens. The department was already renovating them, but this spring officials decided to close three kitchens at the separate jails on Rikers Island and two elsewhere and to turn the remaining kitchens into virtually around-the-clock food factories. 
In years past, cooks would go into supply rooms and refrigerators, grab what they thought they needed for the day and start to prepare the day's meals from scratch. No more. Now every ingredient -- from cut green beans to ketchup -- is counted and stacked under signs that read "Monday's Dinner" or "Thursday's Lunch." 
Tight inventory control has allowed the city to cut the cost of the ingredients used in an average meal to $2.36 from $2.58 five years ago.
Early last Tuesday, in a kitchen that looks more like an airplane hangar, the staff and inmates were busy making four different meals at once: stirring 1,200 pounds of spaghetti and 210 gallons of sauce for Tuesday's lunch; arranging 21,800 hot dogs in pans for Thursday's lunch; cutting cucumbers for a salad for Friday's lunch; and seasoning 15,000 pieces of fish for Friday's dinner.
Although food prepared three days in advance does not sound particularly appetizing, inmates like Nelson Negron, 34, who is serving time for burglary and was cleaning in the kitchen, gave it a passing grade. "It's not so bad," Mr. Negron said. He paused, then added, "You got no choice."
The pre-preparation of most meals greatly reduced the time it takes to handle the food from start to finish.
"Food wagons walking out," yelled Andrew Jackson, a barrel-chested correction officer, referring to the 25 or so giant rolling, igloo-like food storage carts into which the hot foot had been placed so it could be driven by truck to a nearby jail. Until earlier this year, that jail had its own kitchen.
The gate locking everyone into the kitchen -- it is in a jail, after all -- was slid open and carts rolled. "Choo, choo," an inmate yelled, as the lunch train of sorts pulled out.
For kitchen employees, the intense focus on efficiency can be exhausting. "It is just more harassing now," Ms. Williams, the cook, said. A minute later, her boss asked, "We almost ready to start panning?" referring to the spaghetti she was mixing in a vat so big she needed a spoon the size of an oar. "A few minutes," she said. "That's my girl," her boss shot back, smiling.
The new supersized ovens are critical to the operation. Rikers Island's old kitchens used the equivalent of pizza ovens. The new contraptions -- so big they would thrill Hansel and Gretel -- can accommodate 500 pieces of chicken at once, 300 more than the old ovens, and, using forced hot air and rotating racks, cook them in 45 minutes instead of 90.
The kitchen is attached to the 2,461-inmate Anna M. Kross Center jail, Rikers' largest. Four officers and a captain used to be assigned to Kross's main control room, where they cast an eye on video monitors, manage guard assignments, keep track of a wall of keys and control the giant steel doors at the jail entrance. Today there are three officers and a captain doing the same work.
At the other end of the jail, where 150 or so inmates are lined up each morning on their way to court, two additional officers have been cut. That means Capt. Steven Cipriano, the supervisor, must focus on the machine that X-rays inmates' bags, instead of just standing in the corridor as he used to, keeping a more general watch on the inmates under his control.
"Would I rather have more staff here?" Captain Cipriano said. "Of course. If something should happen, we would have more coverage. But we are making it work."
Those small cuts have been repeated at dozens of posts across the city's jails. As a result, the Department of Correction's budget for this year calls for 8,771 city-financed full-time uniformed officers, a reduction of 1,122 in two years.
The next-most-ambitious restructuring effort under way this year involves several social service agencies. The city plans to save $75 million by changing the way it helps the unemployed get jobs, provides after-school care to young children and determines eligibility for benefit programs, like help for the elderly to pay their heating bills. 
Because the savings have been budgeted but not yet realized, some advocates for schoolchildren say they worry that the city will instead cut services -- for instance, put children from poor families that now get child care year-round into a program that operates only during school days. Bloomberg administration officials said that would not happen.
Others say the efficiencies may threaten the safety of workers left doing the job -- raising risks for firefighters, for example, by eliminating the fifth firefighter on 23 Fire Department engine companies, saving $11 million.
Some officials, though, argue that restructuring has actually improved service. At the Probation Department, those guilty of low-level offenses are required to check in according to a mandated schedule. But instead of seeing an officer, they can visit a kiosk that confirms their presence by electronically reading the shape of a probationer's hand.
That means the city's probation officers, relieved of having to meet regularly with the 25,000 or so people convicted of crimes like assault or fraud, can spend more time on the 9,600 serious criminals on probation.
At the same time, regular reporting by lesser-risk probationers is up, since many of them know that the computerized system allows the city to keep better track of them and to more quickly penalize those who do not report.
Will all these changes result in a municipal government that is truly lean and productive, or just slightly less wasteful? The Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group, argues that the city could save an additional $500 million a year by asking most civilian employees to work a 40-hour week, instead of the current 35 hours or 37.5 hours.
Another $200 million could be saved, the commission contends, by improving the way the city buys goods and services.
Still, the Bloomberg administration has clearly generated more than $100 million in savings by improving productivity. But unlike most other mayors, Mr. Bloomberg has been oddly reticent about publicizing the gains. 
Though the savings are far less than city residents are paying in new taxes, they have helped Mr. Bloomberg balance this year's budget without closing centers for the aged, cutting library hours, reducing trash collection, or taking other draconian measures that once had been threatened.
"Sometimes a fiscal crisis creates an urgency that allows you to do things that inertia has prevented," said Martin F. Horn, the Department of Correction commissioner. "The fiscal situation demanded these changes. But even if it had not, they were the right thing to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Melvin Calloway, a kitchen worker on Rikers Island, added flour to stew as Verona Griffiths stirred the pot. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 1); At left, Melvin Calloway moving food cooked on Rikers Island. To save time and money, some jail food is prepared days in advance. Above, Officer Keith Hines, right, and Officer James Masley work on Rikers Island. The city plans to cut more than 1,100 correction officer positions. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 28) Chart: "Adding Up Efficiency and Other Savings"Mayor Bloomberg has promised to save the city money by making the government more efficient and transferring some costs to the state and federal governments. Here are some of his promised actions. ACTION: Eliminate various assignments for correction officers, cutting more than 1,100 jobs.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: $47 millionCOMPLETE?: YES ACTION: Improve billing of federal and state governments for Medicaid.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 36COMPLETE?: YES ACTION: Transfer cost of operating 105 senior centers at housing projects to federal government.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 29COMPLETE?: YES ACTION: Consolidate administration and restructure after-school programs for city youths.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 15COMPLETE?: NO ACTION: Reorganize employment and drug abuse programs to increase federal and state aid.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 14COMPLETE?: NO ACTION: Eliminate fifth firefighter on 23 engine companies.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 11COMPLETE?: YES ACTION: Eliminate duplication in youth programs, such as dropout prevention and career training.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 11COMPLETE?: NO ACTION: Purchase food in bulk for meals served to the elderly, in schools and to the homeless.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 10COMPLETE?: NO ACTION: Consolidate eligibility screening for home care, day care and winter heat aid programs.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 9COMPLETE?: NO ACTION: Rely more on private ambulances, allowing city to cut about 40 city ambulance tours.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 6COMPLETE?: YES ACTION: Reduce police overtime at parades by using interlocking metal barriers and scooters.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 5COMPLETE?: YES ACTION: Allow lower-risk convicts on probation to check in at kiosks, eliminating 41 jobs.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 2COMPLETE?: YES ACTION: Consolidate kitchen operations at Rikers Island.ESTIMATED SAVINGS*: 2COMPLETE?: YES *In 2004 fiscal year, which began July1 (Sources: New York City Office of Management and Budget; city agencies)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PRISONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LAYOFFS (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); SALES TAX (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); AGING (60%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



635 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH CARE; 
Failed Hospital Finds a Rebirth

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

 BODY:
IT has been three months since St. Agnes Hospital, a small institution in White Plains founded almost a century ago to serve Westchester's poor, failed and went under management by the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla. And while the present seems clear, and the bright, airy hospital has managed to start breaking even as a division of the larger medical center, it is by no means clear what the future holds for St. Agnes.
 The recent past, though, is painfully clear. The 184-bed hospital, founded by a Roman Catholic order, the Sisters of St. Francis, was squeezed by low payments from health maintenance organizations and government programs like Medicaid and Medicare, plagued by its inability to carve out a niche in the health care market in Westchester, and burdened by a $90 million debt. St. Agnes relinquished its operating license in early April. 
 Soon afterward, the state Dormitory Authority, one of its main creditors, moved to foreclose on the hospital. Hospital operations were then taken over by the Westchester Medical Center in an arrangement that is to last until mid-October. While many hospitals -- public and private, large and small -- across the nation are suffering from essentially the same problems of low reimbursement rates and high costs of medical care, few have gone out of business. Some use investment income to shore up operations; some dip into pools of reserves set aside for rainy days; some have turned to wealthy donors for bailouts; some aggressively court rich patients from abroad. 
But St. Agnes didn't have reserves, financial investments, wealthy donors or enough of a reputation to lure patients from overseas. To survive, it needed patients, and lots of them, who could bring in payments -- even if they are modest ones -- from H.M.O.'s and the government.
"Basically, they weren't getting the patients," said Claudia Hutton, the spokeswoman for the Dormitory Authority, which issued $38.5 million of bonds on behalf of the hospital for renovation in 1998. At the time of its demise, 125 of St. Agnes's 184 inpatient beds were occupied. 
No other hospital in the county is in danger of closing, said Craig Kornett, a health care analyst with Fitch Ratings, a Manhattan-based bond rating agency. "St. Agnes was in a unique situation," he said. "There is no other hospital in financial trouble at that level." 
He said that the New York metropolitan area is one of the most difficult places in the country to operate a hospital, because of its oversupply of health care services. The last time a Westchester hospital closed was in 1980, and that was the Yonkers Professional Hospital, according to the State Health Department. 
To Martin Arrick, a director at Standard & Poor's who specializes in the health care industry, the lack of a niche was St. Agnes's Achilles' heel. "There are a lot of hospitals in Westchester," Mr. Arrick said. "Everybody also has the option of going into New York City for medical needs. What you need is to find the niche that will make you needed." 
St. Agnes was a member of the Catholic Health Care System under the Archdiocese of New York. Brian Mulligan, a spokesman for the Health Care System, said in a telephone interview that the large number of medical centers in Westchester was a big factor in St. Agnes's financial woes. More than a dozen hospitals are in the county, and White Plains Hospital is about a mile away from the old St. Agnes. 
For now, Westchester Medical Center has turned the St. Agnes campus into the White Plains Pavilion of the center, making it its division that handles the overflow of patients from the Valhalla center, which has 1,060 inpatient beds. The center's chief executive, Edward Stolzenberg, said he is considering turning the St. Agnes campus into a permanent division of the center.
"But it's not a good idea to use it just as an auxiliary facility," Mr. Stolzenberg said. "Can we turn it into a heart hospital? Can we turn it into a cancer hospital? These are just some thoughts." 
While Mr. Stolzenberg said the medical center wouldn't decide about whether to acquire St. Agnes permanently until September, he was optimistic that an acquisition would take place. According to the Dormitory Authority, the medical center could either buy or lease the property from the agency.
If the medical center declines to either lease or buy the property, the Dormitory Authority would look for other hospitals to take it over, Ms. Hutton said. 
For now, with the business directed to the former St. Agnes's campus from the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, the division has started to break even, according to Mr. Stolzenberg, who was the president of St. Agnes for two years in the early 1990's. He has his own postmortem about St. Agnes. The hospital was overstaffed, he said, and failed to campaign aggressively to bring in patients.
If St. Agnes was filled to capacity, it might need its 600-member staff, he said, but when it was operating at about two-thirds full it needed far fewer staff members. In 1992, when Mr. Stolzenberg was at its helm, he established centers for cancer and multiple sclerosis at St. Agnes, which attracted some top-notch doctors in the field, he said. 
Mr. Stolzenberg took the job of running the Westchester Medical Center in 1993, and he said he felt that St. Agnes never widely publicized its new specialties.
Mr. Stolzenberg has his own work cut out for him. In March, he cut more than 100 staff members, and said the layoffs would reduce costs totaling $8 million a year. The hospital, managed under Westchester County government until 1997, lost $6 million in 2001 and more than $10 million in 2002. Mr. Stolzenberg has brought in some well-known surgeons who can perform expensive procedures, like heart and liver transplants, to compete with prestigious hospitals in New York City, like Mount Sinai and New York Presbyterian. 
For now, the mood among staff members at the former St. Agnes is "cautiously settled," said Dr. Robert Antonelle, gastrointestinal doctor there.

GRAPHIC: Photos: St. Agnes, now the White Plains Pavilion, a division of Westchester Medical Center, where, inset, Rosemarie Quinn, a nurse, helps Cirina Calderon with her newborn. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); BONDS (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); MEDICARE (74%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); BAILOUTS (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (55%); RELIGION (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



636 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Warren Strugatch; E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Acclaim Entertainment Names New President
Acclaim Entertainment (Nasdaq: AKLM) of Glen Cove named Paul Eibeler, a former executive with Take-Two Interactive Software (Nasdaq: TTWO) of New York, as president and chief operating officer for its North American operations.
 Mr. Eibeler was president of Take-Two from January 2000 until April. Mr. Eibeler took a medical leave of absence and decided not to renew his contract, which expired this month, the company said. 
 Both Acclaim and Take-Two are among the video game publishers whose accounting practices are the subject of an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

TSR Reports Profits Drop
TSR (Nasdaq: TSRI) of Hauppauge, which provides computer programming consulting services, produced a profit of $537,000 for the fiscal year ended May 31, a decline of 13 percent over last year. Revenues fell 12 percent from the year before, to $52.4 million.
Last year, the company posted a profit of $690,000 on revenues of $59.5 million.
Joe Hughes, the company's chief executive, said continuing lack of demand in the current weak economic environment accounted for TSR's performance last year.

Arrow Electronics Board
Arrow Electronics Inc. (NYSE: ARW) of Melville named Stephen Patrick, the chief financial officer of the Colgate-Palmolive company, to its board of directors, the company announced on Tuesday. Mr. Patrick joined Colgate-Palmolive in 1982 from Price Waterhouse, and became chief financial officer in 1996.

NBTY Profits Decline
NBTY (Nasdaq: NBTY) of Bohemia, a manufacturer of nutrition supplements, reported on Tuesday that its third-quarter profit fell slightly to $29 million, from $30 million for the same quarter last year, while sales rose 22 percent.
NBTY said sales for the quarter increased to $308 million, from $252 million for the same quarter last year.
The company is currently completing a $250 million cash acquisition of Rexall Sundown, a vitamin manufacturer, from Royal Numico.
The company paid earnings of 43 cents a share, ahead of 36 cents a share anticipated by Thomson First Call. Compiled by Warren Strugatch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS & MEDICINES MFG (64%); NUTRITION (64%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (64%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (64%); SICK LEAVE (56%); COMPUTER GAMES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (93%); NBTY INC (92%); ARROW ELECTRONICS INC (83%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (82%); TSR INC (56%); DANONE BABY & MEDICAL NUTRITION BV (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (93%); ARW (NYSE) (83%); CL (NYSE) (82%); TSRI (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS446191 FOOD (HEALTH) SUPPLEMENT STORES (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (52%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (52%); SIC2023 DRY CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCTS (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



637 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Harmonic Convergence for Local Food and Wine

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
AS head of the Hampton Bays-based New York State Seafood Council for some 11 years, Roger Tollefsen already knows most of the people involved in commercial fishing on the East End. But at a planning session this month for Savor Long Island, a new campaign promoting local wines, seafood and agricultural products, he met a number of people -- mainly farmers, he said, but also winemakers and restaurateurs -- who had just become his partners in Savor Long Island, a campaign spearheaded by the Long Island Farm Bureau to raise awareness of the region's foods and wines.
 The idea is to spread the idea that local seafood, produce, poultry and wines taste better when consumed together, especially close to the source. A secondary goal is to encourage restaurants in Nassau and Suffolk to build menus around what Long Islanders catch, raise, harvest and bottle. 
 The campaign also seeks to position the experience of enjoying the East End's foods and wines as a motivation to travel east for the day.
Collectively, the sectors represented account for a significant portion of the regional economy. Suffolk County farmers produce about $185 million a year in sales, and the local wine industry represents about $65 million a year. Commercial fishing on Long Island produces some $50 million in sales, and duck farms, although much reduced from their heyday, still account for about $20 million.
Additionally, much of the money spent by tourists on Long Island goes to farm stands, restaurants and winery gift shops.
The campaign is clearly aimed at people in Nassau and western Suffolk counties. The farm bureau's Web site encourages visitors to become "tourists in your own back yard."
Mr. Tollefsen said that although fishermen were not included early in the campaign's planning, he quickly grasped the idea that they could accomplish more together than they could individually.
"We have a growing ecotourism that's tied to the farm stands," Mr. Tollefsen said. "It's been an economic rejuvenation for many farmers." Commercial fishermen, he said, could similarly benefit by creating greater market appreciation of their product.
"There's a tremendous opportunity to do more," he said, by linking the region's foods and wines in the minds of consumers and restaurateurs.
Savor Long Island was funded by a $100,000 state grant obtained by the Long Island Farm Bureau through State Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, whose district includes the East End. The print ads, which began running this month in several East End weekly newspapers and in Newsday, feature a fish shaped like Long Island on a plate, accompanied by a glass of red wine.
Additionally, a television campaign created by Black Sheep Productions, a studio in Bridgehampton, has been broadcast to local viewers of programs on the Metro, Food and Weather channels on Cablevision. The ads feature "images of farmland and people eating," said Krista Zilnicki, the public relations director of the farm bureau.
Joseph M. Gergela, executive director of the farmers' group, said that when the funding was received, he contacted the 700 members of the Long Island chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association and offered to help them showcase Long Island foods and wines. Part of the state grant went to printing new menus, he said.
At first, the ads named the participating restaurants. But that quickly became unwieldy, Ms. Zilnicki said. "We took the restaurants' names off the ad, and just directed people to our Web site," where they are all listed, she said. The site is www.lifb.com.
One evening at A Touch of Venice in Mattituck, one of the restaurants participating in the promotion, the Long Island menu featured a choice of goat cheese and strawberry salad, or local steamers, as an appetizer; and a choice of angel hair pasta with lobster meat or striped bass with sauteed chicory; and potato salad.
The meal is accompanied by a glass of Long Island wine, said Brian Pennacchia, whose family owns the restaurant.
"It's easy for us to be involved" in the promotion, he said. "We do it anyway. On my way to work I stop at the farmstand and get local lettuce, and I stop at the fish store for local lobsters. We already carry local wines."
Many of the vineyards on the North Fork, he said, refer their customers to his family's restaurant, in part out of appreciation for stocking their products.
"We carry their wines, they send us their customers," he said. "It all works hand in hand."
In a related promotion, local foods and wines will be paired next month in a new event called the Long Island Wine Classic. The event will be sponsored by Wine Spectator magazine and the Hamptons Classic Horse Show, one of the largest events of the East End and a highlight of the Hamptons social calendar; the show will open a day earlier to accommodate the event, which will offer samples of many Long Island wines and prepared foods.
Herodotus Damianos, who owns the Pindar and Duck Walk vineyards, envisioned the new campaign sparking tactics like those wine enthusiasts in California used years ago to help fledgling local winemakers gain a foothold.
"Wine buffs would walk into restaurants in California and order a local wine with their meal," Dr. Damianos said. "If the waiter said that the restaurant didn't carry local wines, they simply stood up and walked out."
Louisa Hargrave, a wine consultant in Mattituck who is helping the farm bureau administer the program, said the idea behind the campaign was logical.
"If you went to Bordeaux, France, you wouldn't order a Napa Valley wine," said Ms. Hargrave, who, 30 years ago, helped found the East End's first commercial vineyard. "Why in the world would you come to the East End and order a French wine, or a California wine?"
Ms. Hargrave said that despite its limited run, the campaign has already helped expand distribution of Long Island wines to restaurants west of Riverhead, long a goal of many of the winemakers.
"Some restaurants carry a local wine or two, don't promote them, and then drop them, saying there was no demand," she said. "Duh. Of course there was no demand. No one knew they were available."
Mr. Pennacchia, the Mattituck restaurateur, said that while the campaign prompted him to create a separate Long Island menu, doing so was simply good business.
"A lot of tourists come looking for that," he said, meaning the experience of buying local foods and wines. "We get a lot of people coming over from Connecticut by boat, and they always have a lot of questions" about what's on the menu and in the wine cellar, he said.
And Long Island customers?
"I don't know," he said, "that it means as much to local people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Campbell looking over a menu that emphasized Savor Long Island, an effort to raise awareness of the region's food and wine, at Touch of Venice in Mattituck. (Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEAFOOD (90%); WINE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); WINERIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); POULTRY (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (71%); ECOTOURISM (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); PRINT ADVERTISING (63%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



638 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: From the Frozen North to the Eye of the Storm 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
IN his years as superintendent of 11.7 million acres of vast but lightly visited national parklands in northwestern Alaska, David W. Spirtes said he was often met with stony silence from Inupiaq Eskimos, the parks' biggest users. 
 "I have not experienced that problem in New York," Mr. Spirtes said with a twinkle in his eye. He has gotten an earful from property owners, environmentalists and elected officials since taking over as superintendent of the Fire Island National Seashore in May, trading the frozen north for the hot seat in a contentious summer playland on the edge of the country's largest metropolis. 
 Mr. Spirtes, 54, a former Army paratrooper who was born in the Bronx and grew up in Philadelphia, arrives after eight years in Alaska during which, he said, one of his hardest tasks was winning agreement on a cooperative management plan for the Western Arctic caribou herd. "It took six years to work through it," he said. 
Fire Island has a problem with an overabundance of whitetail deer. But Mr. Spirtes arrives at a time when crucial shoreline protection decisions for the 32-mile-long island are drawing near, and his every move is being closely watched by thousands of people who have homes on Fire Island and the "mainland" South Shore.
Foremost among coming decisions will be the scope of the Fire Island portion of a federal shoreline protection project for 83 miles of the South Shore from Fire Island Inlet to Montauk Point. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is to complete a project study by 2005 with the aim of determining the best way to preserve the barrier island's natural function as a buffer against hurricanes and other storms. Fire Island and South Shore homeowners generally favor extensive dredging of offshore sand to rebuild the Fire Island dunes, while environmental groups generally prefer to let nature take its course. But any substantial intervention will require strong local support, and, ultimately, the financial support of federal, state, and local governments.
In the short term, Mr. Spirtes (rhymes with birdies) will have to oversee, or perhaps overrule, temporary beach protection projects that several Fire Island communities want to undertake in advance of the larger federal project. And as the manager of the seashore, Mr. Spirtes will play a key role in shaping the final plan. His views will also carry influence with the National Park Service and its parent agency, the Department of the Interior. 
Stripped to its essentials, the most contentious issue he faces is whether scores of expensive oceanfront homes on the 1,000 or so acres of private property surrounded by the park's beaches and waters should be protected or viewed as impediments to the natural processes that are supposed to hold sway in national parks and left undefended, eventually to be washed away.
Mr. Spirtes, a 30-year veteran of the park service who said he listens first and then looks for middle ground between competing interests, has been carefully noncommittal. "It has actually been wonderful to come back and talk with people who are very open and direct," he said in a recent interview at the park headquarters in Patchogue, where an ice axe hangs incongruously on the wall behind his desk.
In a hint on where he may stand, Mr. Spirtes referred to Cape Krusenstern National Monument on the Bering Strait, one of the four Alaskan parks he managed, where he said archaeological evidence showed that shoreline inhabitants retreated from the water 114 times over 5,000 years. 
"Unfortunately, the way we build houses now they have a lot more investment in them and we can't move them like people traditionally did," he said. "And, you know, I think it's a tragedy when somebody's house falls into the water, but it's inevitable." 
But Mr. Spirtes said he was struck by the number of longtime summer inhabitants on Fire Island, and by their passionate attachment to individual communities. "That's something I haven't seen before in my whole career," he said. 
Mr. Spirtes began his career as a seasonal ranger at five different national parks including the Grand Canyon in Arizona, Glacier in Montana, the Everglades in Florida, White Sands in New Mexico and Katmai in Alaska, and then, as a permanent employee, at Gulf Islands National Seashore in Mississippi and Florida. He went on to become a district ranger at Yellowstone in Wyoming and a chief ranger at Glacier Bay in Alaska and North Cascades in Washington. In 1994 he returned to Alaska, becoming superintendent of the Bering Land Bridge National Preserve, and then superintendent of three other parks, Cape Krusenstern National Monument, Kobuk Valley National Park and Noatak National Preserve, when they were joined with Bering Land Bridge as part of the Western Arctic National Parklands. 
So far Mr. Spirtes has been well received by Fire Island homeowners, many of whom regarded his predecessor, Constantine J. Dillon, as an adversary who sided with environmental groups. Mr. Dillon has been reassigned to the Grand Canyon.
Natalie Katz Rogers is mayor of Ocean Beach, one of two incorporated villages on Fire Island. "I am exceedingly pleased with this gentleman," she said of Mr. Spirtes. "He is sensitive to the needs of the communities, and that's a very welcome and wonderful change from his predecessor."
Gerard Stoddard, president of the Fire Island Association, said he hoped the arrival of Mr. Spirtes marked a change in approach by the park service and the Interior Department, and that the new superintendent would use his discretion to ease permit requirements for the short-term beach- and dune-bolstering projects. "So far he has proved to be just the right guy," Mr. Stoddard said."Now we have a manager, and we used to have an environmental puppet." 
But Scott Cullen, the coastal program director for the Nature Conservancy on Long Island, said Mr. Spirtes was in the last days of what would be a brief honeymoon. 
"For now the Fire Island Association and the other groups are not going to blatantly attack him like they did Dillon," Mr. Cullen said. "The grace period won't last long because the homeowners are single-minded and their interest is getting beach nourishment up and running. So the first time he makes the slightest misstep they are going to let him have it."
Mr. Cullen said he had met with Mr. Spirtes, found him to be "a very reasoned person who doesn't just speak off the cuff," and sensed that the new superintendent would take positions that would please environmental groups. 
Any day now, communities within the national seashore are expecting the park service to issue permits allowing them, at their own expense, to pump fresh sand on some beaches and to scrape, or recontour, others along six miles of federal shoreline.
An environmental assessment the park service released in June cleared the way for the short-term storm protection projects to proceed. The communities want to start work before the most menacing part of the current hurricane season. In Dunewood, Fair Harbor and Saltaire on western Fire Island, project supporters say they face an emergency and the imminent loss of homes to storms unless work starts soon. 
But the permits can only be issued after the Philadelphia-based director of the park service's Northeast region, Marie Rust, finds that the projects would have no significant environmental impact. A finding of significant impact would trigger preparation of an environmental impact statement that would delay the projects for months.
Mr. Spirtes expressed general support for the projects provided they were temporary, limited measures that would not impair natural processes or interfere with the larger federal reformulation project. But he said he was also looking for a way to insure that no new development occurred in oceanfront areas as a result of the work. He suggested setting permit conditions might do this.
Property owners seem to recognize that new construction in newly protected oceanfront areas would be harmful to their cause. Asked if new construction might occur in Fire Island Pines if a short-term project went forward there, Alan Brockman, the president of the Fire Island Pines Property, replied, "No, and I want to make that very clear. No new construction will take place in that area."
James T.B. Tripp, the general counsel of Environmental Defense, a Manhattan-based lobbying group, said the long-term reformulation plan would compel a federal decision on the fate of oceanfront houses.
"Should the federal government be spending tens of millions of dollars on rebuilding the beachfront and moving the dune line toward the ocean to protect homes that are in or in front of the existing dune line?" asked Mr. Tripp. "I think that's bad policy, economically and environmentally."
Mr. Stoddard and property owners say that human intervention on Fire Island and elsewhere on the South Shore has made it impossible to precisely locate a natural dune line. "Whenever you have stabilized inlets, you no longer have a natural system," said Mr. Stoddard, referring to maintained inlets on both ends of Fire Island. "There is just no reason why you shouldn't replace sand on the beaches."
Joseph Vietri, the deputy chief of planning for the Army Corps' New York regional office in Manhattan, said the corps would do nothing that might spur new oceanfront development on Fire Island. "Our goal is to reduce the development pressure along the coastline," he said. "We are not in the business of taking people's personal property, but we are in the business of educating them on the risks associated with developing." 
Mr. Vietri said that the state, which doomed an Army Corps proposal for a large-scale interim project on Fire Island by refusing to sign on as the local sponsor, was supporting the reformulation project. He said that Mr. Spirtes would be a key to parks department and Department of Interior support. But he said Mr. Spirtes had much to learn.
"He is trying to get up to speed, but put yourself in this gentleman's shoes," said Mr. Vietri. "He comes into this cauldron and he has to absorb 30 or 40 years of history."
Mr. Spirtes is not a stranger to erosion problems that threaten homes. In the same area of the Alaskan coastline where two of the parks he previously managed are located, residents in the barrier island communities of Kivalina and Shishmaref have been battered by erosion from Arctic storms. The Inupiaq residents are reluctantly making plans to relocate the villages on the mainland. 
Mr. Spirtes said he worked to convince residents of Shishmaref that a move was unavoidable, perhaps to a location within what is now parkland.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FAR FROM the remote national parklands he supervised in Alaska, David W. Spirtes, above on horseback, has taken over as superintendent of the Fire Island National Seashore, where human pressures are many. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); David Spirtes, left, the new superintendent of the Fire Island National Seashore, on the beach with Wayne Valentino, the park's chief ranger. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 11) Chart "In From the Cold" compares the environments between Fire Island National Seashore and Western Arctic National Parklands. (Sources: National Park Service, National Weather Service)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ARMIES (89%); BEACHES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); EROSION (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ENGINEERING (69%); WEATHER (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



639 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2471 words

HEADLINE: Postcards From the Far Shore 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER

DATELINE: FORTESCUE 

 BODY:
THE back roads are paved with crushed clamshells. The air is thick with greenhead flies. Eagles and heron pluck fish from water coursing through the bright green grass that covers thousands of acres of open marshland that slopes into the briny Delaware Bay.
 This is New Jersey's other shore, a kind of East Texas of the North, covering vast expanses of inland nothingness and more than 50 miles of nearly deserted coastline stretching along Salem, Cumberland and Cape May Counties from the Salem nuclear plant on Lower Alloways Creek to the Victorian houses of Cape May. 
 While developers continue to cram multimillion-dollar condominium complexes onto specks of land on the Atlantic side of the state, New Jersey's Delaware Bay coastline is a largely forgotten, watery wilderness in the middle of the Washington-to-Boston megalopolis. 
 In keeping with the pace of life here, topics of conversation are few. An enduring subject is the environment; another revolves around what local fishermen are catching. A newer one, however, is an undercurrent of talk about developers coming in, one step ahead of baby-boomer retirees.
 "This is the last frontier in New Jersey; there's nowhere left after this," said Steve Byrne, who rents boats to crabbers on Dividing Creek in Downe Township, Cumberland County. "This is the last place in New Jersey where you can be free and wild."
 Mr. Byrne is a guitar player and a birdwatcher. His wife, Chris, is a painter. Two years ago, after their two children were grown, Mr. Byrne, 57, got out of the antiques and auction business and they moved from Pitman in Gloucester County to a house overlooking the bay, perched atop pilings on a sandy crescent of beach near the mouth of the Maurice River.
 "We only moved 40 miles," Mr. Byrne said, "but it seems like 400 miles."
 Despite the crushing pressure to develop most of the rest of the state, this area remains relatively untouched. Much of the land is not really land, just muddy marsh fed by creeks winding toward the bay.
 State and federal restrictions on the development of tidal wetlands govern much of the coast, including 41,884 acres set aside by the state as wildlife management areas. This stretch of coast is considered such a critical natural resource that the Nature Conservancy, the world's largest land preservation organization, has bought up 10,000 acres in 18 sites in this area of New Jersey.
 "It's an incredibly important stopover site for migratory birds from a global perspective," said Jay Laubengeyer, director of the organization's Delaware Bayshores program.
 The Nature Conservancy manages an additional 14,500 acres owned by PSE&G. As part of an environmental mitigation project linked to approvals for its Salem nuclear power plant, the utility company has been restoring wetlands that were once diked and drained for farming.
 Although much of the land is either set aside or not really developable, there is still potential for new development, Mr. Laubengeyer said.
 "There is great development pressure, especially in Cape May County and even in Cumberland County," he said. "We are seeing more and more development." The completion of Route 55, a highway leading from the Philadelphia area to the Maurice River, has created new pressure, he added.
 Though the wetlands are protected from development, he said building would be possible in upland areas bordering the marshes. "There's still a fair bit of land that could go either way," he said.
 Along the coast and inland along the rivers and creeks that drain into the bay, a few old towns remain, most of them long past their prime, including Bivalve, Shell Pile, Port Norris and Mauricetown. Their fortunes rose and fell with the oyster industry, which was a big business in the bay from the 1880's to the 1920's, when more than a million bushels of oysters were harvested from the waters off New Jersey. Today, oystermen harvest only about 10,000 bushels a year in the Delaware Bay.
"When boats were the main form of transportation, this was the hot place to be," said Meghan Wren, sitting in a former shipping shed that once served hundreds of oyster schooners in Bivalve. "But now, when cars are the main transportation, it is hard to get here. It has become a has-been."
 Ms. Wren grew up in nearby Millville but spent summers on the Atlantic Coast and developed a love for water and boating. She never been on the Delaware Bay until after she left home, traveled the world and worked on a tall ship in Texas.
 "When I came back here I was amazed," she said. "I had never recognized this was such a pristine and vibrant environment." 
 In 1988 she founded the Bayshore Discovery Project, a nonprofit education organization that teaches schoolchildren and other groups about the bay. The project also sponsors sailing trips aboard the A.J. Meerwald, a restored oyster schooner.
 The beauty of the bay lies largely in its massive, open expanses, Ms. Wren said. Low grasses and waterways stretch for miles in all directions until they meet the sky and cloudsat the horizon.
 "There are not many places, especially in New Jersey, where you can get that long view," she said. "It is part of the nature of being human to be inspired by water, and here it is everywhere you look."
 The bay, she said, is simply overlooked by vacationers following the well-worn path to the Atlantic beaches: "They're looking for a sure thing. Everybody else is going there, so they go too."
 Still, she acknowledged, the upper bay, with its chemical plants and refineries near the Delaware River, does not give the best first impression.

'People Who Don't Mind Greenheads and Mosquitoes'
 Though the shoreline may be peaceful and empty of humans, in various seasons it is jammed with crabs, shorebirds and bugs. The cycle begins in May, with horseshoe crabs pouring up onto the beaches to spawn. Then come hordes of shorebirds that gorge on the crabs' eggs. Next come strawberry flies, then the deer flies and the gnats. In July, greenheads rule for about four weeks before giving way to dragonflies.
 Ms. Wren says a tolerance for nature's aggravations fits in with the independent nature of those who choose to make the bay area their home.
 "People here tend to be self-employed," she said. "There is a can-do attitude. They are the kind of people who don't mind greenheads and mosquitoes."
 Though a few vacationers have found thin slivers of sandy beach in spots, the Delaware Bay remains largely populated by fishermen and boaters.
 "This is the way it is, and it's never going to change," said Gail Mauro, owner of the Money Island Marina on the Nantuxent Creek, as fishermen returned from the bay on a sunny Saturday evening to filet the day's catch and sip back beers.
 But for all the peace and quiet here, serious environmental battles are almost always being played out over the bay's delicate habitats, which are home to more than 2,700 species of plants and animals.
 This year, environmentalists won some added protection for the bay's horseshoe crabs, the world's largest population of the prehistoric hard-shelled creatures.
 The crabs are being over-harvested for use as bait for eel and conch fishermen, environmentalists say. And that affects the thousands of shorebirds, including sanderlings, sandpipers, red knots and ruddy turnstones, that stop over on their flights between Northern and Southern hemispheres. 
 Up to 600,000 birds descend on the bay from South America in late May to feast on horseshoe crab eggs. Over a two-week period, many of the birds gain up to half their body weight to fuel their journey to nests in the Canadian Arctic.
 Researchers with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection found that horseshoe egg density on the bay's beaches declined by more than one third in just two years: to 2,629 per square meter in 2002 from 4,186 per square meter in 2000. At the same time, the population of the red knot, a shorebird that travels from Tierra del Fuego at the tip of South America to Canada with a two-week layover in the Delaware Bay, has dropped by 55 percent since 1986. At this rate, the researchers concluded, the species will be extinct by 2010.
 "There's a real concern that if the trends continue the shore birds could be on their way to extinction," said Fred Stine, a coordinator for the Delaware Riverkeeper Network, a coalition of nonprofit groups throughout the Delaware River basin in New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Delaware. "That would be a horrible statement and legacy to leave -- that we allowed one of nature's most important world travelers to go extinct on our watch and on our turf." 
 Mr. Stine said birdwatchers generate up to $34 million in tourism dollars in the region, while the bait industry generates only $2.8 million. Biomedical companies also harvest crabs and siphon off their blood for use in testing but do not kill the crabs, he said.
 "The amount of the tourist industry generated by birding at hotels and restaurants so far outweighs the amount of money generated by a couple of hundred fishermen that rely on this for part of their income that it's a no-brainer on economic terms alone," Mr. Stine said.
 This spring Delaware and New Jersey officials agreed to cut the horseshoe crab harvest in half -- to 150,000 crabs per state. They also banned all harvesting during the crabs' spawning period, from early May to early June.
 About 500 bay men work the Delaware, harvesting crabs, shellfish and fish, depending on the season and market demand, said Nils Stolpe, a spokesman for the Garden State Seafood Association. For them, he said, the horseshoe crab dispute is not over any one species, but regulation in general.
 "Some of them have been doing this for several generations," Mr. Stolpe said. "All the increasing restrictions on harvests, in essence, is another nail in their professional coffin. It makes it increasingly hard for them to put together a year's worth of work. and there aren't any other real options."
 He said the new horseshoe crab regulations alone would not do in the bay men.
 "But the cumulative impact on their way of life is, unfortunately, going to be more than some of them can bear, which is something that I don't think the environmentalists give enough consideration to," he said.
 Over all, the bay is cleaner than it was in the 1970's before strict pollution controls were enacted. But Mr. Stine says the bay remains vulnerable to pollutants that do not come from heavy industry but from development sprawl upstream.
 "Some of the water-quality issues have improved," Mr. Stine said, "but P.C.B.'s and metals and other contaminants are even more of a problem than in the past. A lot of that is coming from storm water from parking lots and rooftops."
 For commercial fishermen, the bay and the creeks that feed into it are a nursery for many species. Recreational boating in the area is their complaint. 
 Daniel Cohen, president of Atlantic Cape Fisheries in Cape May, said: "For me the issue in the Delaware Bay and estuary has to do with the effect of human activities such as personal watercraft, jet skis and outboard motors, which is significantly eroding the estuaries and the banks. Most people don't realize that as this environment is degraded, fish lose the ability to reproduce."
 Mr. Cohen is making at least a small bet that some of the bay's past glory as an oyster producer can be reclaimed. For two years his company has been running tests of disease-resistant oysters developed at the Rutgers University Haskin Shellfish Research Laboratory in Bivalve.
 The oysters are being cultivated on a system of ladders similar to the way they are raised in France. They are being sold in Cape May and in New York City under the name Cape May Salts. "It does have potential," Mr. Cohen said of the project.
 Walt Canzonier, president of the New Jersey Aquaculture Society, said the bay would never produce as many oysters as it did at its peak because in those days oystermen took seeds from Delaware and Maryland, a practice that has been abolished. But the industry could easily generate 250,000 to 300,000 bushels a year, he said.
 Overharvesting and bouts of parasitic disease in the late 1950's and early 1990's killed off much of the oyster industry in the bay. Mr. Canzonier said, however, that a business failure had kept the stocks so low. Local bay men, he said, have not been willing to engage in the time-consuming process of cultivating oysters, which involves moving them from seedbeds along the estuary out to the open waters to mature.
 "That's how it was done in the glory days," Mr. Canzonier said. "It's not that we don't know how to do it. We just forgot."

Demand for Housing? Yes, It Could Happen
 Perhaps the biggest change looming for the bay is a possible invasion by baby boomers looking to retire.
 There is little demand for new housing now because of development restrictions and because the coast remains too far from major commuter pathways to jobs in New York or Philadelphia, said James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.
 There is also little money to support new building. Salem and Cumberland Counties ranked 20th and 21st among New Jersey's 21 counties in personal income in 2000.
 "The bay has not had the cachet of Atlantic Ocean side where waterfront land is worth its weight in gold," Mr. Hughes said. "There's not a lot of beaches. It's a lot more marshes. It's a different kind of waterfront experience, and as of now it has not been as fashionable."
 But the area may hold promise, he said, for retirees, who don't need to commute to work and are looking for quiet, low-priced housing to enjoy their sunset years. Vacationers tired of the usual crowds elsewhere might come looking, too.
 "Conceivably, the bay could become fashionable at some point for second homes, particularly as the baby boom hits the big 65," Mr. Hughes said.
 In the last year, interest in bayfront properties has soared, said Karen Love Millul, an agent in Turnersville who has been selling real estate in the area for 13 years. This summer she has been selling homes in less than a week with multiple bids. Prices are on the upswing but they are still cheap compared with the Atlantic shore, said Ms. Millul, who recently sold a five-bedroom, newly renovated home on the bay for $250,000.
 "Before people wanted to have a boardwalk and shopping," she said. "Now they don't care about that so much. They don't want the crowds; they want peace and quiet."
 Ms. Wren said the controversies over sprawl that have consumed so much of the rest of the state could arise even here.
 "It's creeping in already," she said. "I am concerned about creating viable alternatives for the people who live here, but I would hope it wouldn't be necessary to have a whole spate of condos developed to make it work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Green marsh grass and open waters, above, surround Bivalve, a small shellfish community in Cumberland County. Steve Byrne, right, hauls a crab trap along a dock on Dividing Creek. (Photographs by Mary Godleski for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Oyster boats sit idle, above, at the close of another day of fishing in Delaware Bay. Walt Canzonier, above left, president of the New Jersey Aquaculture Society, counting clams with Yongping Wang, a research aide. Historic homes in Mauricetown, below. And below left, a contemporary fishing vessel passing an antique schooner docked in Bivalve. (Photographs by Mary Godleski for The New York Times)(pg. 5) Map of New Jersey highlighting Cumberland county and surrounding areas. (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); WETLANDS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); BIRDS (89%); WILDERNESS (88%); BIRDING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); AUCTIONS (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (72%); POWER PLANTS (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (70%); BABY BOOMERS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



640 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
Eating Humble/Superior Pie

BYLINE:  By LINDA CARROLL MARTIN; Linda Carroll Martin lives in Red Bank.

 BODY:
IT turns out there is something even more humbling than accepting a lesser job: struggling to perform a lesser job. 
 I might blame the poor job market for the sorry career offerings, and the decision to make a compromise, but what about the subordinate job challenges? Is it possible to be simultaneously stooping and over one's head? 
 "Just try it," my husband counseled when I was offered a part-time clerical title. "It's a foot in the door." 
 If only egos were so logical.
 Once upon a time, in an economy far, far away, I managed the treasury department of a Fortune 500 company. But that was long ago (the 90's) and far away (Cincinnati). Now, pride had me wondering, "Can I do this job?"
 Privately -- well, O.K., smugly -- I grappled with a clerical title. Consoling myself with self-righteousness daydreams, I reminded myself that all work is worthy. And, oh yeah, there's that bit about jobs worth doing are worth doing well. Mostly, I imagined that my true talents would be quickly revealed to great acclaim and instant promotion (as well as health insurance benefits). 
 Instead, I spent my first days on the job watching my predecessor define the term "multitask" (now understood to mean "continuous data entry into multiple, incompatible computer systems, while answering phones and greeting the public") thus demonstrating a woeful paradox. I am struggling to learn a job that I am extremely overqualified to do, judging by the job description. 
 The key, I have decided, is to take a lesson from Lucy in the chocolate-factory assembly line and find humor in the situation. After all, how else might one react to an employment-qualifying Filing Test? I have no idea whether company names are filed before or after the proper names of individuals. Nor do I wish to know, but that's beside the point. The point is whether I wish to be a job candidate who doesn't even know how to file properly.
 Did I mention the complexities of answering the phone?
 But since this job does require me to answer the phone, it's a good thing I figured out how. Because I work in the Professional Development Department of a community college -- a perfect paradox -- I speak to a steady stream of ex-corporate employees inquiring about new career training. Bumbling through the query screens and registration forms needed to fulfill their requests, I figure what I lack in efficiency I make up for with an unrivaled ability for empathy. 
 (In case you were wondering, all of Monmouth County wants to either teach or sell real estate.)
 Should I mention money? This will be embarrassing, but since the very theme of this essay is public humiliation, I will divulge that my current earnings rival my hourly wage in 1985. Then, it afforded me a cozy illegal sublet on the Upper East Side. Today, it affords me material for musings like this one.
 Admittedly, my timing is poor.
 "You are two years too late to the dance," my husband says about my return to the work force after several years at home with children. Compound this with the onset of a midlife crisis, which is either the cause or the result of this job search, and you have the makings of a dysfunction that has not been named. I would feel even worse if I weren't so convinced that I am in good, if covert, company. 
 As the saying goes, and now more than ever, it's impossible to know whom one is dealing with. I mean if dot.com geniuses are selling khakis at the Gap, doesn't it make you wonder who is delivering your pizza? Personally, and self-servingly, I am amused to find overqualified people screwing up jobs everywhere. In recent weeks I have been "helped" by one customer service associate who left a career -- and, one might argue, her brains -- at AT&T and one former information technology manager now employed at Home Depot. Again, my unrivaled ability for empathy is called into play, for many of us are dealing with the humbling realities of the new workplace.
 Actually, the more I think of any genius-turned-Gap-employee, the less impressed I am with his dot.com days. The question is not the size of his old pay stubs. The question is whether he knows how to ring a sale.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



641 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
Rising Interest Rates Don't Worry the Affluent

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer

 BODY:
As of last month, most affluent investors had done nothing to prepare for rising interest rates, according to a new Bank of America survey.
 Eighty-six percent of those polled -- people with investable assets of more than $100,000 -- said that they had been paying attention to the Federal Reserve's announcements on interest rates. 
Short-term rates remain at historically low levels, but longer-term rates have increased recently, and many economists say they are likely to rise further. 
 But 51 percent of the investors said they had not taken any steps to deal with rising rates. Twenty-six percent said they had contacted a financial adviser about interest rates, while 25 percent said they had changed the type, but not the portfolio allocation, of the fixed-income securities they held. Sixteen percent said they had reduced their fixed-income allocation, while 1 percent said they had dealt with the possibility of rising rates by refinancing their home mortgages. Multiple responses to questions were permitted.
The survey, conducted by telephone in June, involved 700 Bank of America customers who are among a group that the bank called "the mass affluent."
Thirty-seven percent of the respondents said they had more than 25 percent of their portfolio in long-term fixed-income investments. Eighty-four percent said they planned to keep the same percentage of their portfolio in long-term bonds over the next six months.
"Our survey indicates that for many mass affluent families, it's a good time to rethink their asset allocation, especially when it comes to long-term fixed-income products," said Alan Schroder, chief executive of Banc of America Investment Services, a division of Bank of America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); AFFLUENT MARKET (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BONDS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); BANC OF AMERICA INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (65%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%) SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



642 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Out Of Their Cages 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; Thomas L. Friedman is on vacation.; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The hot new toy here among agents and producers is the $5,000 clicker. The AMX ViewPoint remote commands the plasma TV, TiVo, stereo, radio, pool heater, security cameras, flattering lighting, videoconferencing and air-conditioning. It makes coffee and soon it will make popcorn.
 New Age Buddhists here talk about the inner life with a talisman of outer life: the clicker. If you are sad, simply change channels and look at the same events with a new perspective. 
 Variety reports that Sony has spent $1.75 million for "Click," a script, perhaps for Adam Sandler, about an ad exec who rewinds his life through his TV remote control.
Californians are trying to go Gatsby one better. He thought he could redo the past. They think they can redo the present; simply point the clicker and change governors.
It was probably inevitable that California money guys would try to recast the state's unimpressive top executive while hisshow was running.
On the surface, the recall is so complicated that even those who are in charge seem bumfuzzled. John Burton, the State Senate president pro tem, said he had never even heard of the Commission on the Governorship until he learned he might have to convene it this week. But like all California epics, this one revolves around two things: cars and money.
Years ago, Darrell Issa, the right-wing millionaire congressman from San Diego who bankrolled the recall drive, was arrested twice on car theft charges. He ended up making his $100 million fortune developing the Viper alarm system, in which his own voice warns thieves to "please step away from the car." Now he is trying to hot-wire the political system and speed away with the governorship.
"The recall provision was created to get rid of governors guilty of malfeasance -- not so malfeasers could put themselves into office," sniffs Chris Lehane, a Gray Davis recall adviser.
But the effort could not have succeeded, even in a state festooned with do-it-yourself democracy, if someone besides Sharon Davis liked Gray. Even before he mismanaged the energy crisis and the budget mudslide, he irritated his fraternity brothers at Stanford by calling the police to report them for car theft when they borrowed his red Chevy to go surfing.
It's a bad sign when even an ascetic like Jerry Brown, who used to sleep on a mattress on his floor, makes you sound like an abstemious drip. Asked about Mr. Davis, Governor Brown's chief of staff for six years, Mr. Brown offered a listless list: "He doesn't drink. He eats broccoli. He gets on an exercise bike. He's very focused."
The former Governor Moonbeam, now mayor of Oakland, said the stars had aligned to create the "kaleidoscope" of the chaotic rerun, described by a Davis aide as akin to unlocking "all the cages in the zoo." Any celebrity or citizen (except the governor himself) who has 65 signatures of voters and $3,500 can run.
"There have been a lot of governors who were unpopular -- Wilson, myself, my father, even Reagan for a time -- but we never got anywhere near a recall," Mr. Brown said. "You had to have a guy willing to plop down a million, a bad economy and a really unpopular governor."
Part of the antipathy toward Mr. Davis was that, with his cycle of fund-raising and favor, he was the personification of money distorting the system. But the recall provision, which was created in 1911 to thwart the corruption of East Coast-style machine politics and domination by plutocrats, has become another way big money can warp the system.
"Instead of spending $50 million to be governor," Mayor Brown says, "a wealthy person can throw in $2 million for a recall and only need 20 percent of the vote to win."
The two parlor games this weekend are: Will Arnold run? (The truncated race works well for pols with racy pasts they'd just as soon race past.) And will any Democrats defy the weak Mr. Davis and get in?
Democrats and Republicans are wary about fixing the awful budget mess and facing a cornered Mr. Davis, who is brutally talented at saving his own skin. (His aides are pointing out that the G.O.P. budget cuts off funding for food for Seeing Eye dogs.)
Mr. Brown and Leon Panetta are leery of jumping into what Mr. Panetta calls "the Looney Tunes." "California is still on the cutting edge," says Mr. Panetta wryly, "but now we're on the cutting edge of showing other states how not to govern."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); VEHICLE THEFT (87%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (78%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (72%); POLITICS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); LARCENY & THEFT (69%); ARRESTS (67%); MISCONDUCT (65%); RELIGION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (88%); ADAM SANDLER (55%); DARRELL E ISSA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



643 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 5750 words

HEADLINE: Were Sanctions Right? 

BYLINE:  By David Rieff; David Rieff is the author, most recently, of "A Bed for the Night: Humanitarianism in Crisis."

 BODY:
As the war in Iraq recedes, the challenges of occupying and rebuilding the country seem to grow more daunting with every passing day. It is becoming clear, though, that Iraq's devastation is not primarily the result of American bombing during the war or of the looting that followed it, but of the economic crisis that befell the country before the first shot was fired. There is still little consensus about what happened in Iraq during the years before the war or who is to blame. But the quest for answers has reawakened a fierce and bitter controversy over Iraq policy in the 1990's.
 For officials in Washington and London and for American administrators now in Iraq, that country's postwar woes are essentially the legacy of Saddam Hussein's tyrannical, cruel and corrupt rule. As L. Paul Bremer III, the civilian administrator of postwar Iraq, recently said of Hussein, "While his people were starving -- literally, in many cases, starving -- while he was killing tens of thousands of people, Saddam and his cronies were taking money, stealing it, really, from the Iraqi people." 
 But others argue that the fundamental reason Iraq is in such terrible shape is not Hussein's brutality but rather the comprehensive regime of economic sanctions that the United Nations Security Council imposed on Iraq for almost 13 years, sharply restricting all foreign trade. It was these sanctions, they claim, that brought this once rich country to its knees.
For many people, the sanctions on Iraq were one of the decade's great crimes, as appalling as Bosnia or Rwanda. Anger at the United States and Britain, the two principal architects of the policy, often ran white hot. Denis J. Halliday, the United Nations humanitarian coordinator in Iraq for part of the sanctions era, expressed a widely held belief when he said in 1998: "We are in the process of destroying an entire society. It is as simple and terrifying as that." Even today, Clinton-era American officials ranging from Madeleine K. Albright, the former secretary of state, and James P. Rubin, State Department spokesman under Albright, to Nancy E. Soderberg, then with the National Security Council, speak with anger and bitterness over the fervor of the anti-sanctions camp. As Soderberg put it to me, "I could not give a speech anywhere in the U.S. without someone getting up and accusing me of being responsible for the deaths of 500,000 Iraqi children."
The end of the war has at last made it possible to find out what the effects of sanctions on Iraq really were. American officials from the administrations of George Bush Sr. and Bill Clinton are now willing to speak candidly about the human costs of sanctions, and Iraqis are also able to speak far more openly than they were before Saddam Hussein's ouster. 
Many of the diplomats who constructed and administered the sanctions policy still defend them steadfastly. Richard Holbrooke, who served as ambassador to the United Nations under President Clinton, says: "The concept of sanctions is not just still valid; it's necessary. What else fills in the gap between pounding your breast and indulging in empty rhetoric and going to war besides economic sanctions?" 
Albright insists that sanctions cannot be ruled out in the future when formulating policy, whether in Washington or at the Security Council, for dealing with such tyrannies as North Korea, Zimbabwe or Myanmar, formerly Burma.
And James Rubin asks: "What should we have done, just lift sanctions and hope for the best? I believed then and believe now that that was just too risky, given Saddam Hussein's past, his repeated attempts to invade his neighbors, his treatment of his own people and the weapons we knew he was developing."
According to Rubin, sanctions were the sole available choice that did not imply allowing Saddam Hussein to do what he pleased in the region. And officials of the first President Bush's administration, hardly known for endorsing many of the policies later formulated by Clinton's foreign-policy team, broadly agree. "What we were trying to do by putting sanctions in was to prevent Hussein from threatening the region," recalled Gen. Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser for the first President Bush. "They worked in the sense that he was never able to rebuild his conventional army. When this war started, the Iraqi Army had no more than one-third of the strength it had possessed at the beginning of the first gulf war. But imagine that there had been no sanctions. Is it reasonable to suppose that the weakened Iraqi Army we just faced would have been so weak? I doubt it."
These observations do not answer the question of whether any policy, no matter how strategically sound, is worth the deaths of 500,000 Iraqi children -- a figure that originated in a Unicef report on infant mortality in sanctions-era Iraq and became the rallying cry of anti-sanctions campaigners. And the argument against sanctions on Iraq went beyond even this single, horrifying statistic. Sanctions, their opponents insist, transformed a country that in the 1980's was the envy of the developing world in terms of investments in health, education and physical infrastructure into a place where everyone (except the half-million or so members of Saddam Hussein's Baath Party and their families and cronies) was dependent on United Nations food aid, where infant mortality rates had skyrocketed, educational outcomes had collapsed and diseases that had disappeared were reappearing, sometimes at epidemic levels. 
American officials may quarrel with the numbers, but there is little doubt that at least several hundred thousand children who could reasonably have been expected to live died before their fifth birthdays. The damage, according to those who fought against sanctions, was terrible, medieval. It was, in the literal sense, unconscionable, since those who died had not themselves developed weapons of mass destruction or invaded Kuwait. Rather, they were the cannon fodder for Hussein's war and the victims of his repression.
Madeleine Albright was widely excoriated in 1996 for telling a television interviewer who asked her about the deaths of Iraqi children caused by sanctions, "This is a very hard choice, but the price, we think the price is worth it."
She says now that she regrets the comment -- "It was a genuinely stupid thing to say" -- and in a recent interview seemed still to be struggling with the moral and strategic questions that underlie the sanctions debate. For Albright, the comprehensive regime of sanctions imposed on Iraq represented at best a tragic choice between unhappy alternatives -- a search for the lesser evil. 
As Albright put it to me, "I wish people understood that these are not black and white choices; the choices are really hard." Sanctions like the ones that were imposed on Iraq, she said, "are a blunt instrument. That's their tragedy. What was so terrible for me was that I did see the faces of the people who were suffering -- even if I thought then and think now that the sufferings of the Iraqi people were Saddam's doing, not ours. There's a terrible price you pay. A terrible price."
The actual history of American sanctions on Iraq is fairly straightforward. On Aug. 2, 1990, in response to Iraq's invasion and annexation of Kuwait, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 661, imposing comprehensive multilateral international sanctions on Iraq and freezing all its foreign assets. Iraq was no longer free to import anything not expressly permitted by the United Nations, and companies were forbidden from doing business with Iraq, with very limited exceptions. Before the conflict started, Iraq had imported roughly 70 percent of its food, medicine and chemicals for agriculture. Although its oil reserves, and hence its wealth, were virtually limitless, it was nonetheless a country that without international trade could not feed itself or sustain the modern developed society it was becoming.
On Feb. 28, 1991, Iraq, defeated on the battlefield, capitulated to American-led forces. The sanctions remained in place. On Aug. 27, 1992, the United Nations declared "no fly" zones over the Shiite areas of southern Iraq and the Kurdish areas of the country's north, adding physical containment of Hussein's military to the program of sanctions. This created a policy that several Clinton administration officials would later describe to me as "keeping Saddam in his box." 
By early 1993, opposition to sanctions was growing, especially in the Arab world, and so was dissension within the United Nations. Albright, then Washington's newly appointed ambassador to the United Nations, recalls that when she arrived in New York to take up her post in February 1993, there was confusion about sanctions policy. As she put it: "No one had thought they would be in place for so long, but then, no one had really thought Saddam Hussein would still be there either. The intelligence was that he'd be gone fairly soon." 
Albright's instructions from the White House were to hold "very firm" on sanctions. But she soon made a trip to the Middle East that, while it had been undertaken largely to persuade Middle Eastern leaders that they should support a continuation of sanctions policy, also caused her to somewhat modify her view about what the effects of sanctions were on the ground in Iraq.
"I went to various Arab capitals with photographs we'd declassified that showed how much money Saddam Hussein was spending on his palaces," she told me recently. "The Arab leaders were amazed. They hadn't known any of this. But in turn they told me about how much the Iraqi people were suffering under sanctions. They also talked about the anger over sanctions that was building in the Arab 'street.' Of course, this protest was affecting them, too. But I was appalled by what they told me, not just worried about the political consequences. And it was when I returned to the U.N. that I began to try to mitigate the humanitarian consequences of the sanctions. That's when the idea of 'food for oil' was born."
The premise of the oil-for-food program, which was administered by the United Nations, was that Saddam Hussein would be allowed to sell a certain amount of oil. With the proceeds, Hussein's government would be permitted to buy essential humanitarian supplies, including food, medicine and materials needed to keep Iraq's crumbling infrastructure running. A humanitarian coordinator would oversee things in the country, making sure that the materials being imported were used for their stated purposes. The program sought to bar the Iraqi government from obtaining any materials that could be used for military purposes, and as Albright points out, that was problematic: items like chlorine or chemical fertilizer can be used to make poison gas or explosives even if their ostensible use is in water purification or agriculture. "Even shoes can be considered 'dual use' items," Albright told me, "since it all depends on whether they are going to the general population or to the military."
In New York, decisions on what Iraq would be permitted to import and what it would be barred from obtaining were made in a special United Nations sanctions body, the so-called 661 Committee, named after the Security Council resolution that had imposed sanctions in the first place. Outside the United Nations, pressure to do something to ease the plight of the Iraqi people was mounting. As David M. Malone, a former Canadian ambassador to the United Nations who now runs the International Peace Academy, recalls it, the modifications to the system of Iraq sanctions were the result of "huge publicity and international pressure." First Halliday and then his successor, Hans von Sponeck, resigned the post of United Nations humanitarian coordinator for Iraq in order to protest the sanctions.
But although the Security Council agreed to the oil-for-food program in April 1995, Saddam Hussein at first refused to participate, holding out for a total lifting of sanctions. It seems to have been during this period, when Hussein was trying to wait out the United Nations and the Americans and the British were trying to bring the Baghdad regime to its knees through sanctions, that the worst human suffering in Iraq took place. It was only in December 1996 that Hussein accepted the oil-for-food program, and only in 1997 that it became effective in alleviating some, though not all, of the torments of the Iraqi people.
At the same time, the French and the Russians were pushing hard within the Security Council either for a ratcheting down or an outright lifting of sanctions. Nancy Soderberg states flatly that the French and the Russians allowed their eagernessto develop business deals with Iraq to affect their work on the 661 Committee. "The French and Russians wanted to make money," she told me. "By the time of the second gulf war, the Russians had $40 billion in prospective deals with Saddam Hussein's regime." (As for the French, as the International Peace Academy's David Malone puts it, "Paris never offered an effective alternative to sanctions, simply grandstanding on humanitarian questions while doing business with Iraq.")
Meanwhile, at the General Assembly, governments of a majority of the countries in the developing world were actively denouncing sanctions as wantonly brutal -- as a policy that in effect punished the Iraqi people in the cruelest possible manner without weakening Saddam Hussein's grip on power in the slightest.
In Washington, there was a growing sense that sanctions were a trap from which the United States was unable to extricate itself. Lee Feinstein, who was a senior State Department official during the Clinton administration and who was involved with Iraq policy, told me somewhat despairingly that the decision to continue with sanctions was as much as anything the result of there having been no other options that were politically feasible.
"We had a hostile Congress that would have leapt down our throats had we drastically loosened the sanctions," he said. "We had the French at the U.N. pushing for an outright lifting of sanctions. And we had Saddam Hussein, who was a real threat."
That is the way sanctions looked from the United States and Europe. But it was difficult, during the debate in the 1990's, to know what the Iraqi people really thought. This is no longer true. The Iraq I traveled to in May was full of dissonant voices and contradictory opinions. People were no longer afraid to speak their minds. And yet what I found was an almost universal opposition to sanctions -- a stern, unshakable conviction that the 1990's were a human and economic catastrophe for the Iraqi people and that sanctions were at the heart of the disaster.
Khaled Afra, a young physics student I met shortly after I arrived in Baghdad, phrased it this way: "Saddam was a criminal, the biggest. But sanctions were also criminal. There was a huge amount of victims due to illness. You see, sanctions really killed our dreams -- not my personal dreams only, but those of my Iraqi people, all of us."
You can still see the effects of sanctions everywhere in Baghdad. It's not only in the degradation of the infrastructure of daily life; it's also in the remnants of the food-rationing program that Hussein's government instituted to deal with sanctions. 
In every neighborhood of every Iraqi city and town, there are a number of small stores, approximately one for every 50 or 60 families, that warehoused the monthly government ration of food staples on which most Iraqis depended for their physical survival. Essential items like flour, sugar, rice, cooking oil, lentils and beans were distributed to these "agencies" -- the term English-speaking Iraqis customarily use to describe them -- by Saddam Hussein's Ministry of Trade. (The stores are still in use today because the American occupation authorities have not been able to devise a better way to get cheap food staples to the general population.) The shops tend to be small and, even by the standards of a place that is as decayed and dilapidated as contemporary Iraq, far shabbier than the shops that surround them. They are the front line of what sanctions actually wrought in Iraq.
"I do not make money from selling these things to my neighbors," a merchant named Salman Moussa told me as we stood in front of his agency in the Baghdad neighborhood of Al Mansour. "Basically, I am doing a public service." After a long pause, he finally added: "Like a fireman. Since the prices are so low -- a few American dollars each month for all the food -- merchants like me only make a little profit."
Most Iraqis and most outside observers agree that food was the area in which Saddam Hussein's government coped best with sanctions. Kenny Gluck, a seasoned American relief worker who is now the operations director for the Dutch section of Doctors Without Borders, remarked to me recently, "You can't say too many bad things about Saddam Hussein, but give the devil his due: on the food issue, he responded very capably."
The food success buttresses the case of those who always claimed that the toll exacted on the Iraqi people through sanctions was all the fault of Saddam Hussein. He could have provided Iraqis what they needed all along, they say. But instead of doing so, he chose to devote his country's resources to building palaces for himself and for his family and functionaries, mosques to please the disaffected believers among his citizens and weapons with which to menace his neighbors and the world. To a limited extent, anyway, many Iraqis seem to agree with this analysis. 
"Saddam could do many things to the people," a former Iraqi Army officer named Raed Mohammed told me, "but while he could kill them, he could not afford to starve them. So yes, he made sure the Ministry of Trade organized things correctly. As a result, the rationing was popular. It helped the regime maintain its legitimacy. Most people thought, 'Saddam is feeding us while the Americans are trying to starve us to death."'
Indeed, Hussein's government was so proud of its accomplishment that in front of the Ministry of Trade headquarters, there was a huge mural of Saddam Hussein showing the tyrant holding up a ration book -- his "gift" to the Iraqi people. (The mural was later defaced by looters.) And there were other, unanticipated, advantages that accrued to the regime from the rationing system. Every Iraqi head of household had to have such a ration book, issued by the Ministry of Trade, which named every immediate family member and listed the precise quantities of foodstuffs to which the bearer was entitled. Every food agent had a computerized list from the Ministry of Trade of the people he was supposed to supply with these staples. 
What this meant in practice was that the regime could maintain a database on every Iraqi citizen and constantly update it, without recourse to the security services or even a network of paid informants. It was a secret policeman's dream -- and it was all provided, however inadvertently, by the sanctions the United States and Britain had conceived as a way of limiting Saddam Hussein's power.
"First we got used to the idea that the government provided food," a young Iraqi journalism student named Aziz told me. (He preferred that I not know his last name.) "Then we started to see the government as the provider of absolutely everything. For Saddam, it was great. The more he controlled distribution, the more effective the Iraqi police state became. After all, practically the worst thing you could do was to lose your ration card." 
In many ways, Saddam Hussein became a master at manipulating the sanctions system to his own ends. Under the rubric of the oil-for-food program, the United Nations allowed the Iraqis themselves to publish their list of humanitarian requirements and then to select the foreign companies with which it wished to do business. This provision meant that the Iraqi government was able to set up a well-orchestrated system of kickback schemes in which a contract would be signed at far more than the cost of fulfilling it, with the difference deposited secretly by the selected contractors in Iraqi government-controlled accounts all over the world. As a result, Saddam Hussein and the Baath elite got rich off the sanctions, and a great many international businessmen, notably in the Arab world, in France and in Russia, made handsome profits as well.
"The Syrians, the Jordanians, the Turks -- they all had their own deals," Nancy Soderberg recalls.
Meanwhile, Saddam Hussein used the pretext of the sanctions to wage a propaganda war -- one that even many American officials would later concede he probably won. Not only did Hussein use the sanctions to rationalize to Iraqis every shortage they were enduring, but he also proved himself a kind of genius at exaggerating and exploiting the effects of sanctions that were already tragic enough when reported truthfully. To rally his population, and probably also in a bid to win support from Western sympathizers and the international media, Saddam Hussein orchestrated a kind of traffic in suffering -- all meant for the television cameras.
One doctor I spoke to who spent several years in a hospital in the provincial city of Baquba, about 25 miles north of Baghdad, told me that the hospital staff had instructions, whenever a child died, to keep the corpse in the morgue rather than burying it immediately as mandated by Islamic custom. "When a sufficient number of bodies accumulated," he explained, "the authorities would stage a mass funeral, railing against the sanctions, even though as often as not there was no connection between a particular child's death and the sanctions."
I asked the doctor how a child's parents could possibly have agreed to such a deception.
"This was not a country in which one disagreed," he replied. "And in any case, they got 50 kilos of rice and 50 kilos of flour. Or else they were paid, you know, like the families of the freedom fighters in Palestine."
I inquired whether there had been other manipulations of the system to make things seem worse than they had really been.
"Of course," he replied, as if it were the most obvious thing in the world. "It happened all the time. For example, we would get a shipment from the Ministry of Health of vaccines provided by the World Health Organization. But then we would be instructed not to use them until they had reached or even exceeded their sell-by date. Then the television cameras would come, and we would be told to lie and tell the public how the U.N. made ordinary Iraqis suffer. You have to understand: this was a system where everyone knew what was expected of them. Most of the time, we didn't even have to be told what to do."
This media campaign was extremely effective. If anything, it was more influential in the West, mobilizing public opinion against sanctions, than it was within Iraq. What began as a campaign of left-wing fringe activists, like Ramsey Clark and the British member of Parliament George Galloway, soon became the dominant opinion. In the late 1990's, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan was privately emphasizing to American and British officials his own moral qualms about the humanitarian effects of Iraq sanctions. As another senior Clinton administration official put it to me: "I still think sanctions were the right policy. But there is no question that in terms of public opinion, as the 90's wore on we were increasingly on the defensive in the sanctions debate."
In Iraq itself, the experience of the doctor in Baquba was anything but unique. Dr. Mohammed al-Alwan, the head of the department of surgery at Baghdad's leading teaching hospital and one of the most prominent physicians in Iraq, told me very much the same thing. "Yes," he said, "the sanctions played a great role in the destruction of our health services and in health care generally. The shortages were extraordinary, particularly with regard to cancer patients, but even descending to such ordinary items as urinary catheters and chest tubes. I don't know what you Americans intended by these sanctions, but I do know that catastrophic effects were intended by Saddam Hussein's regime. The government wanted to say, 'Look, the Iraqi people are suffering so terribly.' But in reality, there were more than enough drugs for 'special' people."
As al-Alwan saw it, Iraq had been subjected to two sets of sanctions, those of the United Nations and those of Saddam Hussein himself. Voices outside Iraq echoed this perspective. Hans von Sponeck, the United Nations coordinator for humanitarian assistance in Iraq who resigned in protest in 2000, remarked bitterly to me in an e-mail message, "Local repression and international sanctions became brothers-in-arms in their quest to punish the Iraqi people for something they had not done."
And the reform of sanctions embodied in the oil-for-food process only partly alleviated the Iraqi people's sufferings. Although Saddam Hussein clearly exaggerated the effects of the sanctions, the 661 Committee was so hampered by American worries over Iraqi imports of dual-use materials, as well as by the patent corruption of the process, that it soon became something of a laughingstock -- to everyone, that is, except the Iraqi people whose fate was so largely in its hands. 
Most Iraqis I met knew all too well that the European, Middle Eastern and Asian private companies that the United Nations used as contractors to provide Iraqis with medical supplies routinely bought from third- and fourth-tier suppliers in India, Pakistan and Indonesia. They know how many contractors got rich off Iraq's predicament. In pharmacies all over the towns and cities of Iraq, it is commonplace to see medicines stamped with the World Health Organization logo along with the phrase "Not for Commercial Sale." These drugs were intended for hospitals. Instead, they were routinely sold to private pharmacists by the Ministry of Health, which was startlingly corrupt even by the standards of Saddam Hussein's Iraq.
Under the highly regulated market that sanctions engendered, only the state was in a position to make traders rich by circumventing sanctions or by using them in ways their architects had never intended.
"Everyone traded here," the scion of an important Arab business family told me, asking that I conceal his identity. "Gulfis, Saudis, Egyptians, Russians, Chinese -- they all made money out of Iraq and out of sanctions. The poor U.N. didn't have a clue about what was going on. They were just idiots. It was a bazaar. Every contract was marked up by 10 percent. But Saddam controlled it all, and until the war started, he, not the Americans, was the big winner."
He hardly needed to add who the big loser had been.
The reality of sanctions is very likely the one adduced by Lee Feinstein of the Clinton-era State Department. For implicit in his description of why the Clinton administration acted as it did is the sense that sanctions were less a policy than a stopgap -- one that was a tragedy for the Iraqi people but that also turned into a trap for the United States. Soderberg says that the controversy over sanctions allowed Saddam Hussein to transform the debate from one about his compliance with United Nations resolutions to one about the lifting of the sanctions. As a means of containing Hussein, she says, sanctions were successful, but they were a "deteriorating" policy. 
And yet as new rogue states emerge and new international crises flare up, the appeal of sanctions remains. They are relatively cheap and virtually cost-free for those who impose them -- though they can be terribly costly for those upon whom they are imposed. Symbolically, they can be highly resonant and emotive. "See, we're doing something about Saddam, or Fidel, or Kim Jong Il," policy makers can say to the public and to themselves. The problem is that there is little or no evidence that sanctions do real damage to regimes that are willing to allow their people to suffer and die. In his mad dotage, despite the fact that he is rapturously out of touch with the thinking of ordinary Cubans, Fidel Castro is as strong as ever. The same was true of Saddam Hussein, who was firmly in control in Iraq when the second gulf war began; sanctions palpably failed to dislodge his government and in fact strengthened him politically.
One may disagree with the policies the present administration has followed with regard to Iraq -- policies that have led to a brilliantly successful war and a staggeringly inept postwar occupation. But to its credit, at least it had a policy, one partly based on the understanding that Iraq sanctions may have contained Hussein, but they had failed at weakening his grip on his country. Brent Scowcroft is right that without the sanctions the American victory in the second gulf war might very well not have been as smooth. The embargo does seem to have achieved the goal subsequently advanced for it as a rationale; that is, to keep Hussein "in his box" and to prevent him from developing weapons of mass destruction. (Of course, the absence of weapons of mass destruction bolsters the case for sanctions but vitiates the stated case for the war itself.)
And yet had sanctions really succeeded, presumably there would have been no need for the war at all. Not that every Iraqi I met preferred sanctions to war. To the contrary, some even insisted that given the choice between being subjected to open-ended sanctions and the bloody resolution of an American invasion, they would opt for the latter. "I detest the Americans and want them to leave Iraq now, immediately," one Shiite notable told me. "But they got rid of Saddam, and now they have lifted the sanctions. That's good. Otherwise, who knows how long this slow death by water torture, which the sanctions were for us, would have gone on?"
James Rubin, the former State Department spokesman who largely rejects the notion that sanctions had such terrible human costs (at least once the oil-for-food program was up and running), argues that before Sept. 11 turned the parameters of American foreign policy inside out, war was not an option in Iraq. Given that fact, he says, the Clinton administration's choice was between giving Saddam a free hand or trying to limit what he could do through a sanctions regime. Rubin believes that American policy makers faced with rogue regimes have just three basic options -- doing nothing, using military force and imposing sanctions -- and so he remains convinced that for all their drawbacks, sanctions will have a future.
"For those who cannot countenance the use of military force, sanctions will always be an option," Rubin says. "Those who believe, as many of America's critics in the world do, that war is no longer a legitimate means in the modern world except in self-defense or with U.N. Security Council authorization will have to turn to sanctions as the ultimate method of coercion in international relations." 
He points to the fact that in the run-up to the second gulf war, many of the same countries and campaign groups that had pushed hardest for the lifting of sanctions began to insist that sanctions and containment should be given time to work. "After spending 1995 to 2000 criticizing Iraq sanctions, the Germans and French fell in love with containment," Rubin observes sardonically. "They wanted better, more extensive containment. They were ready to rethink their opposition to sanctions."
We did not see the end of radical evil with the demise of Saddam Hussein. One has only to think of Robert Mugabe, Kim Jong Il or Charles Taylor to recognize that. Sooner or later, powerful states confronted by such a figure are almost certain to turn to sanctions as part of what Albright calls the diplomatic "tool box." In fact, the United States now has sanctions in place against about a dozen countries, including North Korea, Cuba, Zimbabwe, Syria and Libya. Just this month, Congress imposed a new array of economic sanctions against Myanmar after the military government in that country detained the opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi. 
Some policy makers believe, in my view overly optimistically, that sanctions as now conceived are actually far less destructive and far more sensitively calibrated than they were 8 or 10 years ago. There is talk now in diplomatic circles of "smart sanctions," "targeted sanctions" and carefully balanced combinations of sanctions for noncompliance and rewards for compliance.
And there is always the example of apartheid South Africa -- the one instance where comprehensive, multilateral sanctions do appear to have succeeded in producing "regime change." To anti-sanctions campaigners, however, the South African case is the exception that proves the rule, rather than serving as a model for future confrontations with unsavory regimes. In South Africa, they point out, the humanitarian costs were low (South Africa was nowhere near so dependent on imported staples), and there was an effective and viable opposition in the African National Congress.
Even advocates of sanctions are convinced that the approach that helped bring about the end of apartheid has to be radically rethought for the 21st century -- and that, they say, is exactly what is happening now. The blunt instrument that was applied to Iraq is in the process of being reformed. "We were learning as we went in Iraq," Nancy Soderberg told me. "We're still learning."
In all likelihood, it will be a costly lesson, for there is this terrible conundrum at the heart of every sanctions policy: while sanctions imply rationality -- the knowledge on both sides that the pressure being applied can be lessened by compliance -- tyrants like Hussein and Mugabe are often fundamentally irrational. And so my own sense is that sanctions, even the "smartest" sanctions, will continue to exact an appalling human toll. 
There may indeed be no way around them. But in that case, we should be clear about what we are really saying, which is that there is no way around the ruined lives and the dead bodies strewn across the ruins of broken societies either. Ultimately, as hard as some officials like Albright tried to mitigate the worst effects of Iraq sanctions through oil-for-food and other reforms, opting for them meant choosing American security over Iraqi mass suffering. If tragedy, as the German philosopher Hegel said, is the conflict of two rights, then sanctions are truly a tragedy. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A boy weighing rations at a distribution center near Baghdad earlier this year, before the war. More than a decade of U.N.-imposed sanctions hit most Iraqis hard, but Saddam Hussein eventually set up an efficient food-distribution system. (Yannis Kontos/Polaris); Iraqis submitting ration cards at a Baghdad pharmacy in 1999. The rationing system functioned as a computerized surveillance network for Hussein's secret police. (Murad Sezer/Associated Press); Hussein waged a propaganda war against sanctions by orchestrating events, like this one at an Iraqi school, that blamed medical-supply shortages for the deaths of Iraqi children. (Thomas Dworzak/Magnum Photos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); IRAQ WAR (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); SHOOTINGS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); RWANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



644 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: It Looked Good on Paper 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
IN a flash of intuition, Michael J. Boskin had found a silver bullet. Or so it seemed.
 About six months ago, Professor Boskin, an economist at Stanford who was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under the first President George Bush, released a paper suggesting that the federal government had a bounty of $12 trillion coming that no one had bothered to count. 
 Baby boomers and others, who spent decades making tax-free contributions to their I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans, would soon begin paying taxes on withdrawals from those accounts, Professor Boskin noted. The windfall from all that, he argued, would more than cover the deficits in Social Security and Medicare. He even suggested that the government sell securities abroad, backed by the expected revenue, to cover its more imminent deficits. 
But now it appears that Professor Boskin fired a blank. On July 17, after his ideas were discussed on TV, he quietly notified his colleagues that his equations contained an error. Though he is busily overhauling his paper even now, his latest moment of fame may have already passed.
Professor Boskin worked in the White House throughout the Bush administration and, in the mid-1990's, headed a much-publicized Congressional commission to improve government measures of prices. In those years, he was known as a smart, hard-headed insider who did not hesitate to tell Congress, federal agencies and even the Federal Reserve how to do their jobs.
But in the last seven years, apart from periodically advising the second President Bush and making occasional television appearances, Professor Boskin said little that was heard outside the academic universe. That was, until January, when he released his bombshell paper.
When word of his findings entered the public domain, Professor Boskin instantly became a darling of the business news media. "The doom-and-gloom red-ink budgetary forecasts of recent years have overlooked some astoundingly good news for the government," crowed Barron's in its issue of June 16. BusinessWeek declared Professor Boskin "clearly back on top of his game" in its June 30 issue, calling him "the Alan Greenspan of his generation."
Yet while the news media were bubbling with praise, the academic backlash was coming to a boil. On Feb. 10, just weeks after he drafted his new paper, Professor Boskin presented his results at a seminar held by the economics department of the University of California at Berkeley. Immediately, said Emmanuel Saez, an associate professor at Berkeley who attended, participants took issue with one of his crucial assumptions: that the I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans were earning a much higher effective return than the government was paying on its debt.
TYPICALLY, an unpublished paper like Professor Boskin's would have circulated among academic economists, who would then have offered their comments in private. But in this case, Alan J. Auerbach, the organizer of the seminar, joined William G. Gale and Peter R. Orszag of the Brookings Institution, a research group, to rebut the work of Professor Boskin even as he was revising the paper.
They reiterated the question about rates of return and raised several new, equally profound concerns. To begin with, they wrote, the vision of trillions of uncounted dollars to save Social Security and Medicare was just a mirage. The government's statistics already account for the effects of all the contributions, they wrote, and about 85 percent of withdrawals from tax-deferred saving accounts.
The three also said Professor Boskin was overestimating the tax rates that would apply to the withdrawals, another factor that would artificially inflate the amount of revenue the government might garner. Then they took issue with his assumption that all changes in private saving by Americans would be matched by new corporate investment in the United States.
Indeed, this last assumption by Professor Boskin was a trifle contradictory. Early in his paper, he called the notion that a dollar of debt sold by the government would replace a dollar of corporate investment an "unrealistic assumption in an open economy." But if foreigners could buy Treasury bonds, why could Americans not send their savings overseas, too?
While Professor Auerbach and his co-authors prepared their paper, other commentators took a whack at Professor Boskin's results. Bruce Bartlett, a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a lobbying group, complained that the government would not be able to sell bonds backed by the deferred tax revenue. "It's not like a corporation that suddenly discovered an asset that it didn't know it had," he said in a phone interview last week. "Everybody realized, after they thought about it for a while, that there was less there than met the eye."
Academics, meanwhile, spotted yet another problem. When people take money out of I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans, securities like stocks and bonds are sold. Because these people are often retired, they may spend most of the withdrawals. The more they spend, the more the nation's stock of private saving falls.
When that happens, according to Professor Boskin's own assumptions, businesses would invest less in new projects, and their ability to generate profits would therefore decline. With smaller corporate profits, the government would lose revenue from the corporate income tax -- enough to offset a substantial chunk of the revenue gained from the individuals' withdrawals. But Professor Boskin, it seemed, did not take this into account.
This month, on the same day Professor Auerbach and his colleagues released their report, Professor Boskin sent a short, apologetic e-mail message to a number of notable economists and pundits. He wrote that most of his paper was correct, but he acknowledged that his equations had indeed omitted the complete effect on corporate investment.
"While the qualitative discussion remains valid, this did lead to a considerable overstatement of future deferred taxes," he wrote. "I am in the process of correcting this problem." 
He also called Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, to notify him personally of the flaw. Professor Boskin serves on the budget office's advisory panel and, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said, his ideas had contributed to a similar analysis of deferred tax revenue in the coming decade.
"He made a real effort to let me know that he had made this mistake," Mr. Holtz-Eakin said.
Professor Boskin, reached by telephone last week, defended his main point. "The government has already included the bulk of what's been lost in the contributions, and is yet to collect on the withdrawals," he said. "A balance sheet for the government would show a large deferred tax asset, currently roughly equal to the national debt held outside the government. And that will grow substantially in the future." 
"Mistakes were made in the projection of business taxes and interest, and in circulating the draft electronically," he added. "But the Auerbach, Gale and Orszag criticisms also deal with other issues in dispute between us that have nothing to do with this matter."
For the moment, however, economists' hopes for a "pot of gold," as Barron's first called it, have been dashed. Meanwhile, Professor Boskin will be girding for the next joust with his critics.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The economist Michael J. Boskin with the first President George Bush in 1992. Several economists found flaws in Professor Boskin's recent forecast of a tax windfall from withdrawals from I.R.A.'s and 401(k)'s. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); MEDICARE (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); TRENDS (67%); BUDGET FORECASTS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%) BOSKIN, MICHAEL J. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



645 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2318 words

HEADLINE: Is Universal Worth Fighting Over? 

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
JEAN-RENE FOURTOU strode into the Grill Room of the Four Seasons in Manhattan on July 18 around noontime. Mr. Fourtou, the chairman of Vivendi Universal, had flown in from Paris for a round of closed-door meetings with his advisers, but his lunch that afternoon was very much a public affair.
 Officially, he had come to dine with Edgar Bronfman Jr., the Seagram scion, and Cablevision's Charles Dolan and his son James, all of whom are part of a consortium bidding for Vivendi's collection of entertainment businesses, including Universal Studios and USA Networks. 
 But it was just as important for Mr. Fourtou to be seen at the fabled Four Seasons, to create some buzz and try to send a loud signal to all the deal makers at neighboring tables that he was running a heated auction. 
If Mr. Fourtou seems to be going out of his way to create the appearance of a frenzied bidding war, there is a reason. For the moment, at least, there may not be much of a battle. Indeed, Hollywood executives are now whispering that the zealously tracked auction for Vivendi Universal Entertainment may turn out to be this summer's biggest flop.
Mr. Fourtou has privately conceded to colleagues -- and threatened to suitors -- that he thinks the bids that have come in are so low that he may have to call off the entire process and instead take the more uncertain path of trying to spin off the business and sell a stake in it to the public. The highest offer so far is from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, at $11.5 billion, much less than the $15 billion Mr. Fourtou told associates last year that he would be seeking.
Vivendi's A-list cast of suitors includes Mr. Bronfman, Kirk Kerkorian's MGM, John C. Malone's Liberty Media, Sumner M. Redstone's Viacom and Robert C. Wright's NBC.
While some suitors respect Mr. Fourtou as a corporate leader, they and some of their advisers say privately that the auction has become extraordinarily messy, in large part because of the tangled web of assets he has inherited. 
At least some suitors say they have become increasingly irritated by a sense that they are being manipulated. They assert that Mr. Fourtou changes his mind about what he wants to sell and what he wants from the bidders.
"It's a total circus," grumbled the chief executive of one top bidder, who did not want to be identified for fear of upsetting Vivendi. "The whole thing is dysfunctional. They are not even running an auction anymore. Don't let them fool you: there is no process." 
Even some of Mr. Fourtou's own advisers are exasperated. "Let's just say this is not how I would go about it," one Vivendi banker said.
Since the first round of bids came in last month, no new second-round asking price or deadline has been set. One bidder joked that maybe Mr. Fourtou had gone on strike. The financial numbers that Vivendi has provided bidders "are constantly changing," another bidder complained. 
"Plenty of people feel badly used," yet another bidder said.
But the company's chief operating officer, Jean-Bernard Levy, says that "the auction is on track."
"There is a clear timetable," he added. "We expect a final decision by late August or early September. Never has a process been so well mastered."
Vivendi's strategy may eventually prove inspired, but a tortured, protracted auction is not what Mr. Fourtou had in mind. He came out of retirement last year to take the reins of Vivendi after its former chairman, Jean-Marie Messier, was ousted, and pledged to dismantle the financially disastrous media-buying binge of his predecessor and quickly return to retirement in Morocco.
BUT selling Vivendi Universal Entertainment, which includes the Universal film and television studios, the USA Network and Sci-Fi Channel cable networks and the Universal theme parks, is proving much harder than Mr. Fourtou had predicted.
Mr. Levy may say the auction is going well, but Vivendi Universal Entertainment's complex structure, created during Mr. Messier's shopping spree, makes it much less attractive than it might normally be.
For one thing, there is a vast array of tax liabilities that make breaking up the businesses very expensive. For another, there are the theme parks, which nobody particularly wants, except for one bidder. And then there is Barry Diller, chief executive of InterActiveCorp. Mr. Diller is the ultimate wild card who as a major shareholder could influence the final shape of the deal.
Two years ago, Vivendi acquired cable networks and a production business from Mr. Diller's USA Networks, now InterActiveCorp. As part of that deal, Mr. Diller and his company received stock in Vivendi's entertainment unit. In Mr. Messier's enthusiasm to do the deal, he agreed that if those assets were ever sold separately, Vivendi would cover taxes that might ordinarily be owed by Mr. Diller and his company. Mr. Levy said that "we do not intend to break up Vivendi Universal Entertainment," and added that "the assets will not be sold piecemeal for both industrial and tax reasons." 
Whatever the tax consequences of a deal, Mr. Diller's role in any transaction remains murky. Though he has an agreement that precludes him from joining in any bid for the company, some media executives believe that he might join with another bidder later for the movie studio. 
As for Mr. Fourtou, his strategy seems to have shifted repeatedly. First, Vivendi sought to sell Vivendi Universal Entertainment as well as the company's huge record company, the Universal Music Group, to a single buyer. When the offers came in too low, Mr. Fourtou took Universal Music off the block, apparently convinced that the industry might recover within a few years. 
Then he told buyers he wanted to sell Vivendi Universal Entertainment for all cash to a single buyer. When those bids proved too low, he said he would consider offers that included stock, with Vivendi Universal possibly remaining a minority stakeholder. 
And even now, one executive involved in the talks said bankers were exploring a sale of individual assets under which one bidder, Liberty Media, for example, might acquire all of Vivendi Universal Entertainment and then immediately resell some assets to another company -- perhaps Viacom or General Electric's NBC, for example. Mr. Levy had no comment. 
To be sure, Mr. Fourtou's ever-shifting strategies are partly a result of the company's own success at pulling itself back from the brink of bankruptcy. Though Vivendi is still eager to cut its $16 billion debt load, it needs to raise only about $300 million to satisfy its debt repayments between now and the third quarter of next year because it has cash and credit lines of $4.8 billion and debt repayments of $5.1 billion, according to Drew Borst, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
"That is very manageable, given the myriad of asset sales they are pursuing," Mr. Borst said. "And the debt capital markets have been pretty receptive to them." 
The warmer reception reflects, in part, the $3 billion that Vivendi raised last year by selling its publishing unit, which included Houghton Mifflin in the United States and a package of French magazines. Though some analysts say that auction, too, dragged on far too long, Mr. Levy, Vivendi's chief operating officer, said he was surprised by the criticism. "By anybody's standards, the sale of Vivendi Universal's publishing assets was done in record-breaking time," he said. 
For all of Vivendi's recent success, a company official acknowledged that the company's management had no experience running American entertainment properties and would be far better off exiting the United States operations entirely -- provided, of course, that the price was right. 
But it is hardly a seller's market for Hollywood film studios, and the movie business is the single largest component of Vivendi Universal Entertainment's cash flow. 
Last year, Vivendi Universal Entertainment reported $1.4 billion in cash flow as measured by earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Of that total, about 44 percent, or $616 million, came from Universal Pictures, according to estimates by Sanford C. Bernstein.
Not long ago, when the videocassette business was booming and merger mania was sweeping the media world, film studios were regarded as trophy properties. But in today's more disciplined financial environment, it is harder to rationalize buying a studio.
"Filmmaking is very capital intensive and right now there are no important new revenue sources to offset rising costs," said Harold L. Vogel, author of "Entertainment Industry Economics: A Guide for Financial Analysis"(Cambridge University Press, 2001). "Investors are also worried about piracy."
Nevertheless, Universal Pictures, under its chairwoman, Stacey Snider, has done very well, analysts agree. Although "The Hulk," a $170 million investment, has been considered somewhat of a disappointment, "Bruce Almighty" and "2Fast 2Furious." have been hits. 
BUT Universal's very success may have made it harder for Vivendi to get its price. Because the movie business is so cyclical, Universal could have a hard time lifting profits enough to produce favorable year-over-year comparisons, said Michael Nathanson, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.
Mr. Vogel said, "The fear here is that a buyer is getting Universalat the top of the cycle." 
The movie business may be glamorous, but Vivendi's most coveted properties are its American cable networks, the SciFi Channel and the USA Network, and its television studio, which produces the hit series "Law & Order." Compared with the hit-or-miss film industry, the cable networks are fast-growing and generate steady earnings. 
So is there a buyer in the house?
Viacom, the parent of MTV, Nickelodeon and CBS, would love to buy just the cable networks and the TV production business. But Vivendi is unlikely to sell them unless it can find a way around its tax problem.
If Mr. Fourtou had his druthers, he has told colleagues, he would strike a deal with NBC, a company he respects. Until recently, General Electric had seemed unwilling to put cash in the deal, but late last week, one executive involved in the talks said G.E. might be willing to put up as much as $3 billion in cash as part of its bid. The two companies would then form a joint venture of the NBC and Vivendi Universal assets.
"We don't need as much money as we once did, and a joint venture would create value going forward," said a person close to Vivendi Universal. Indeed, in a deal with NBC, any cash payment would not be made upfront, according to a another person close to the discussions. 
If Mr. Fourtou decides he would prefer to sell all of Vivendi Universal Entertainment for cash, the betting line favors MGM, Liberty Media or possibly Mr. Bronfman, who sold his family's business, the Seagram Corporation, then the parent of Universal, to Vivendi three years ago and is now bidding to buy back the entertainment businesses. 
Who has the advantage in this scenario? MGM and Liberty Media both have had a contentious relationship with Vivendi and Mr. Fourtou. Just this month, MGM announced that it would drop its bid if Vivendi did not produce more detailed information about its finances. The threat, which was widely reported in the press, infuriated Vivendi, which sent a sternly worded letter to MGM refusing to comply with its request.
As for Liberty, it filed a lawsuit against Vivendi Universal in March in United States District Court in Manhattan, contending that Vivendi concealed its financial problems before using its stock in late 2001 to buy most of Liberty's stake in USA Networks. Since that deal, valued at about $10.3 billion in late 2001, Vivendi's shares have plummeted. At the time of the lawsuit, some media executives believed that it was a way for Mr. Malone to gain an edge in negotiating for the Vivendi assets. 
An executive close to Vivendi said that "Mr. Fourtou viewed the lawsuit as a case of bad manners." Several people close to Vivendi Universal said the suit had angered Mr. Fortou. 
ANOTHER possible outcome is a combination of bids, though some suitors have a long history of feuding that could make that difficult. Despite MGM's interest in Universal Pictures, it seems unlikely that Mr. Kerkorian would consider teaming up with Mr. Redstone, the Viacom chairman, who is more interested in Vivendi Universal's cable networks.
In the early 1980's, Mr. Redstone, who was then a major movie theater owner, was a minority shareholder in MGM/UA Home Entertainment, a home video company that Mr. Kerkorian controlled. Mr. Kerkorian offered to buy out minority shareholders, but Mr. Redstone decided that the price was too low and challenged Mr. Kerkorian's offer in court, forcing Mr. Kerkorian to raise his bid.
Mr. Redstone has also warred with Mr. Diller. In 1993, Viacom and USA Networks engaged in a rough battle to acquire Paramount Communications, and Viacom ultimately won. Though there are persistent rumors that Mr. Diller might offer to take over the film studio, letting Mr. Redstone keep the cable networks and TV production business, it might be tough for the pair to strike a deal.
That is not to say there won't be any alliances. Mr. Malone has a long relationship with Mr. Diller, for example. Liberty Media is a major shareholder in Mr. Diller's InterActiveCorp, and those companies might team up for an offer. 
But the longer the process goes on, the more its dynamics change. For example, last month Liberty Media, which owned 50 percent of QVC, the home shopping network, suddenly agreed to buy the half that it didn't already own. That may have sated Liberty's appetite to expand. 
Meanwhile, Brian Roberts, the chief executive of the Comcast Corporation, the nation's largest cable operator, is looking at Vivendi's financial information.
Will that company now play a role? Instead of a clear winner emerging, the backstage machinations just seem to become murkier with each passing week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Hulk" was made by Universal Pictures, which is among the assets that Vivendi Universal has been shopping to bidders. But so far no offers have satisfied Vivendi. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Jean-Rene Fourtou has said the bids received so far are too low. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. 9) Chart/Photos: "The Players"Vivendi Universal's auction for its United States entertainment assets, like Universal Studios and USA Networks, was supposed to be this summer's big blockbuster sale. Will it be? Here are the main bidders and the betting line on Wall Street and Hollywood on their chances of success. EDGAR BRONFMAN JR.Independent investorHe has teamed up with Cablevision and several private equity firms to buy all of Vivendi Universal Entertainment.CHANCES: Slim. If the contest becomes heated, it is unclear if he can go the distance. ROBERT C. WRIGHTNBCHe would love to buy, but it is less clear if NBC's parent, General Electric, is willing to pay.CHANCES: If he is willing to pay at least some cash, he is the guy to beat. JOHN C. MALONELiberty MediaHe seemed like the lead horse until he bought QVC earlier this month. Now, he may not need Vivendi as much.CHANCES: If he still has the desire to win, he probably can. BARRY DILLERInterActiveCorpHe currently has an agreement preventing him from bidding, but he could have Vivendi lift it.CHANCES: As a major shareholder, he'll play a role somehow. KIRK KERKORIANMetro-Goldwyn-MayerHe may want it the most. He is offering all cash and would love to transform MGM into a Hollywood power.CHANCES: If Vivendi wants all cash, he is a major player. SUMNER M. REDSTONEViacomHe is said to want only Vivendi's cable networks and television studio, though at the right price he might take the other assets, too.CHANCES: Unclear. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (64%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (95%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (82%); VIACOM INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: VIVENDI UNIVERSAL 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (95%); VIV (BIT) (95%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%)

PERSON: EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (92%); SUMNER REDSTONE (58%); CHARLES DOLAN (58%); JOHN MALONE (58%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%) FOURTOU, JEAN-RENE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



646 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: FOLLOWING UP 

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:
Ah, the Memories Of a Political Life
 From Liberal Party stalwart to deputy mayor in a Republican City Hall to Democratic mayoral hopeful. Not the typical political route in New York, but Fran Reiter traveled it, and in a single decade. 
 Ms. Reiter was the New York State chairwoman of the Liberal Party when, in 1993, she served as deputy campaign manager for Rudolph W. Giuliani in his first successful race for mayor. Support by the small Liberal Party for Mr. Giuliani, a Republican, was significant in his narrow victory over David N. Dinkins, the Democratic incumbent.
Mr. Giuliani made Ms. Reiter his deputy mayor for planning and community relations, and she later was deputy for economic development and planning. In 1997 she managed his re-election campaign, and later she headed the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau and was executive director of the Joseph Papp Public Theater.
In 1999, Ms. Reiter rejoined the Democratic Party, which she had left for the Liberals about 1980, and announced that she was considering a run for the 2001 Democratic mayoral nomination. She withdrew in 2000 after failing to attract enough financial support and news media attention.
These days, "I'm still a Democrat," Ms. Reiter, 49, said recently, though "I'm not politically active." She is "happy to be a Democrat" now, she said, but had not been in 1980 in part because of a "conservative turn" she perceived on national issues in the Carter administration. (In 1990, though, even while a Liberal leader, she was the Democratic as well as the Liberal candidate in a losing run for Congress.)
Ms. Reiter is currently a principal of Reiter Begun Associates, a Manhattan consulting firm that she said mainly helped companies, schools and nonprofit groups deal with city and state agencies on regulatory and other matters.
Does she envision future days back in government?
"I can see going back sometime into public service," she said. "I enjoyed it, even though it takes a toll on your life."
And any post would have to be appointive, she said, because "I have no interest in running for public office." Recalling her mayoral and congressional bids, she said, "I hated raising the money."

Protected Creatures: Eagles in Bronze
In 1962 New York City parks officials put into storage four statues of eagles from Fort Greene Park in Brooklyn, where they had perched for a half-century at a historically significant spot but had become increasingly vandalized. Two had even been stolen but recovered. 
Since the 1970's, the three-foot bronze works have adorned the Manhattan headquarters of the Parks and Recreation Department, despite efforts by Fort Greene civic leaders to have them returned to their positions at the park's prison ship martyrs monument, a 148-foot Doric column dedicated in 1908. It stands over the remains of many of the 11,000 Colonials who died on British prison ships moored in the East River during the Revolutionary War.
Now, the parks agency and the local community board have agreed on a compromise that satisfies the agency's concerns for the eagles' well-being. Three would be returned to the monument under a plan of close watch, said Amy L. Freitag, deputy commissioner for capital projects, and the fourth would be kept at a location of greater security that is still to be determined, while an imitation would be newly cast for the fourth place at the monument. 
Approval by the city's Art Commission and the Landmarks Preservation Commission is needed for the compromise to fly.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (84%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); VANDALISM (63%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



647 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Page Two: July 20-26; 
IRAQ: SOME RELIEF FOR BUSH

BYLINE:  By Richard W. Stevenson

 BODY:
President Bush has been enduring a long, hot summer, with American troops dying with distressing regularity in Iraq, his credibility being challenged and the unemployment rate going up. But the Pentagon handed him a victory of sorts last week, saying it had found and killed the two sons of Saddam Hussein, a development that Republicans said would mark a turning point in the president's political fortunes. 
 The bad news is by no means over. Three servicemen were killed in Iraq on Thursday. A Congressional report on the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks raised questions about the competence of the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. And Democrats continue to hammer Mr. Bush over the accuracy of his claims that Iraq posed an immediate threat before the war. 
 The deaths of Usay and Quday Hussein, however, bolstered the administration's argument that it is gradually restoring order, and allowed the White House to make the case again that Saddam Hussein's government was so brutal that there could be no doubt about the righteousness of the war. Richard W. Stevenson

GRAPHIC: Photos: The deaths of Saddam Hussein's sons helped President Bush. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003 



648 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Enhancing education, not protecting beleaguered industries, will help the economy, experts say.

BYLINE:  By Daniel Altman 

 BODY:
AS the job market gropes for a recovery from the recession, some of those looking to place blame have settled on the nation's imports and exports. Consumers are importing too many goods and services, the argument goes, while companies are exporting too many jobs. But while these activities may indeed be slowing the recovery in the short term, in the long term they are likely to be essential to raising standards of living.
 Last week, an article in The New York Times described a conference call of executives at I.B.M. who said the company needed to move more white-collar positions to India and elsewhere overseas. A union leader interviewed in the article said he worried that letting the jobs leave the country would pull down wages in the United States. 
 In the meantime, several economic analysts have been bemoaning the fact that the trade deficit has expanded since the start of the recession. Had exports held up and the increased imports been replaced by spending on goods produced at home, they said, the recovery would have been strong rather than weak.
These assertions about wages and output might be true in the near term. If thousands of jobs suddenly disappeared, the demand for labor would be dropping with no change in supply. Then wages -- the price of labor -- would also fall. And if imports had not risen and exports had not fallen, the economy might be in slightly better shape. (Of course, the trade deficit ballooned during the boom of the 1990's, too.)
Should the trends be stopped, assuming they could be? Although the Bush administration has experimented with protection for steel and crops, a more widespread protectionist policy would probably bring outrage from consumers and from the many businesses that depend on cheaper raw materials from abroad. 
On the other hand, politicians might have a hard time opposing policies intended to keep jobs from leaving their constituencies. But to economists, such job-guarding policies are just another type of self-defeating protectionism.
"By outsourcing some of these jobs overseas, you maintain profitability of the activities you're still doing in the U.S., and in fact you enhance their profitability," said Robert C. Feenstra, a professor of economics at the University of California at Davis. "It's the only way that your firms and industries are going to stay competitive. It's just got to be done."
Instead, Professor Feenstra said, the nation should work to improve the quality of the labor force freed up as jobs move overseas. That way, Americans will be able to exploit what economists call their "comparative advantage" in producing high-technology and high-value goods and services.
At the moment, the Labor and Commerce Departments have so-called trade adjustment programs intended to help workers and companies that lose jobs or business because of foreign trade. But these initiatives have remained relatively small -- budgeted this year at only $10.5 million in the Commerce Department and about $933 million in the Labor Department -- because of past controversies.
Professor Feenstra recalled, for example, that in the early 1980's many manufacturing workers received trade adjustment benefits when their jobs disappeared after two brief recessions. When the economy picked up, however, many of them went back to work at their factories, leading Congress to conclude the program amounted to little more than corporate welfare.
"It was never an effective retraining tool," Professor Feenstra said. "It was just a handout. It was shortly after that that the funding was cut."
Time to try another solution? Funny you should ask. A pilot program just created as part of the Trade Act of 2002 offers a sort of insurance for workers who lose their jobs and take new ones at lower wages. For eligible workers, especially older ones and those with skills not easily transferred between industries, the government will pay half the difference in wages for up to two years.
The program does not have an explicit component of retraining, but economists have reviewed it favorably nonetheless.
"It's the natural counterpart to unemployment insurance, and we've never had it before," said J. David Richardson, a professor of economics and international relations at Syracuse University. "Government training and government-subsidized training doesn't pay off much. It's far better to give cash by which the worker can retrain."
Most successful training takes place on the job, Professor Richardson explained, so giving workers an incentive to find new jobs quickly is crucial. But he added that ad hoc programs to help particular groups of workers or companies could not by themselves prepare the nation for open markets. An even more important factor, he said, is education.
"More educated workers find new jobs faster and recover more of their earnings," Professor Richardson said. "It's overwhelming. It's amazing."
The biggest differences in job mobility, he noted, are between high school dropouts and workers with high school diplomas and some college education.
"There's a clear message there, which is we've really got to help our workers in all kinds of adjustment by just strengthening basic high school education," Professor Richardson said. "It helps cope with change."
Still, to fill the jobs that will stay and proliferate in the United States, in fields like global coordination, sophisticated design, customization and consulting, Professor Richardson said, the skill level of the labor force will have to deepen.
"We're constantly racing up a skills ladder, and workers who have to climb the ladder often do have to attain some new and higher skills," he said. "It's true that it's a new class of workers who are threatened. But it's also true that those who manage to climb to the next higher rung are having more satisfying and more stable positions."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (88%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (76%); TRENDS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%) LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL; FEENSTRA, ROBERT C (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



649 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Unfazed by Prospects For Renewed Flowof Iraqi Oil 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 27 

 BODY:
After several false starts, Iraq seems poised to resume a steady flow of oil exports starting in August. For months, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has been puzzling over what such an infusion of oil into world markets might mean for prices and what member nations should do to hold prices in a profitable range.
 As the group prepares to meet on Thursday in Vienna, the answer seems to be nothing, industry analysts said. But within the mandarin politics of the oil world, doing nothing still means something. It indicates OPEC's relative comfort with and confidence in the relatively high price of oil, which has surpassed $25 a barrel for most of the year, settling in New York late Friday at $30.17. Moreover, it signals OPEC's skepticism, shared by many oil traders, about whether Iraq can sustain the 600,000 to 650,000 barrels a day its officials say the country will begin shipping in a matter of days. 
 "The bottom line is that OPEC is in a reactive posture," said Yasser Elguindi, managing director with Medley Global Advisors in New York. "Until they can get clarity on Iraq, OPEC won't do anything."
Even if Iraq manages to export 650,000 barrels a day, the oil would reach the United States market at the earliest by mid-September, just as refiners' demand increases on winter heating oil. As a result, few analysts expect a serious price drop when Iraq returns to the market.
Nearly three months after President Bush declared an end to major combat operations, it is still hard to get a clear sense of how the Iraqi oil industry might progress, largely because of persistent looting and sabotage, industry analysts and Iraqi oil officials say. Shamkhi al-Faraj, head of the oil ministry's economics department, estimated today that production capacity is 1.3 million to 1.5 million barrels a day, about 500,000 barrels more than a month ago.
Iraq recently signed term contracts to sell oil from August to December to BP, Royal Dutch/Shell and ChevronTexaco. All the oil for export will flow from the southern oil fields near Basra -- a major breakthrough in the revival of Iraqi oil. A month ago, the South Oil Company, which manages the Basra area fields, was pumping 350,000 barrels a day. Now, its capacity has jumped to 800,000 barrels, about 150,000 of which would go to domestic use. 
South Oil's capacity was badly eroded by postwar looting, especially at an installation called Qarmat Ali, which injects water into the vast Rumaila fields to draw oil from reservoirs. Working with South Oil and the Army Corps of Engineers, Halliburton is installing the huge pumps needed for Qarmat Ali to resume its water-injection process, according to a recent report on Iraqi oil by Walid Khadduri, editor of The Middle East Economic Survey. 
In contrast to the progress being made in the south, there is little chance that oil from northern Iraq will soon enter world markets, Iraqi oil officials and industry analysts say. The Northern Oil Company, which extracts oil from the Kirkuk fields, is pumping about 500,000 barrels a day, officials say. But it must reinject a significant portion of that back into the reservoirs, after stripping away the natural gas for coking fuel, because the company's export pipelines have become regular targets of sabotage. "They keep making holes in the pipelines," Mr. Faraj said. "We're thinking that we really will just export from the south."
He said that once the ministry was confident that the northern export pipelines were secure, Northern Oil's exports to Ceyhan would resume. But there is no way so far to tell when that might be. Mr. Faraj said the coalition authorities might already be seeking an international corporate security firm to manage pipeline security. 
The oil ministry is also trying to recruit villagers and members of tribes that live near the pipelines to protect them. But coalition authorities remain leery of arming them and have been slow to give them cars, Mr. Khadduri said, based on a recent trip to Iraq. 
Such uncertainty about security has made the full flowering of the Iraqi oil industry an uncertain event. But OPEC members say that in Iraq's case, they have become accustomed to fluctuations. Iraq pumped oil and shut it down repeatedly in its disputes with the United Nations, which managed the country's exports under the sanctions regimen. 
"Iraq has been off and on for the last five or six years," a senior official from an OPEC delegation said. "It's something we're used to." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HEATING OIL (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); ARMIES (67%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (81%); CHEVRON CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (81%); RDSA (AMS) (81%); RDS.B (NYSE) (81%); RDS.A (NYSE) (81%); CVX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003



650 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1740 words

HEADLINE: Totaling Up the Bill for Spam 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

DATELINE: BLOOMINGTON, Ind., July 27 

 BODY:
When Indiana University installed its new e-mail system in 2000, it spent $1.2 million on a network of nine computers to process mail for 115,000 students, faculty members and researchers at its main campus here and at satellite facilities throughout the state. It had expected the system to last at least through 2004, but the volume of mail is growing so fast, the university will need to buy more computers this year instead, at a cost of $300,000.
 Why? Mainly, the rising volume of spam, which accounts for nearly 45 percent of the three million e-mail messages the university receives each day. 
 Unwanted commercial e-mail, or spam, has become the bane of the Internet because it is so cheap and easy to send that all sorts of companies and individuals do so, prodigiously. Spammers these days pay as little as 0.025 cent to send an e-mail message. The computing costs for the recipients, or their Internet providers, to process each message are similarly tiny. But with billions of spam messages sent each day, all these fractions of cents start to add up to real money. Even greater are the costs of trying to block spam, catch spammers and undo the damage they cause to recipients. 
Gauging the cost of tiny bits of computer power and the value of many moments of wasted time, multiplied by millions of e-mail users, leads to big, if inevitably imprecise, numbers. One company, Ferris Research, says the cost is $10 billion in the United States this year. The Radicati Group estimates the worldwide cost at $20.5 billion.
Another firm, Nucleus Research, shoots higher. By its reckoning, the economic cost is $874 a year for every office worker with an e-mail account, which multiplied by 100 million such workers amounts to about $87 billion for the United States.
"Spam is one of those areas where we see a severe impact on productivity," said Rebecca Wettemann, research director of Nucleus. "The average worker receives 13.3 spam messages a day, which takes six and a half minutes to process. Do the math and that comes to 1.4 percent of their productive time."
Not everyone thinks the sky is falling. Peter S. Fader, a marketing professor at the Wharton School who has studied e-mail, says the research firms' estimates vastly overstate the actual cost of spam. 
"I am deeply skeptical that these crude top-down methods are accurate," he said. "Hitting the delete key is far more efficient than carrying your physical mail from the mailbox over to the trash can."
He also argues that the computers and networks that are being installed to deal with spam will be a powerful resource for processing legitimate e-mail, once spam filters and economic Darwinism tame the spam epidemic. 
"Spam, although it is a bad thing per se, is fostering the growth of the e-mail infrastructure," he said.
But few involved in actually building that infrastructure take as broad a view as Dr. Fader. At Indiana University, Brian D. Voss, the associate vice president for telecommunications, can cite many costs of spam beyond the computers and network needed to deliver it. 
First, he says, is the cost of building a system to filter out spam for users who do not wish to receive it. The university is building a filter for a new $50,000 server, and it does not know yet how many of these it will need for its entire network. The task requires not only programmers but also lawyers, as the state university has to be sensitive to the First Amendment rights of the spammers. 
His staff also spends time -- and time is money -- dealing with the spam filters of other companies and universities when they reject mail from Indiana University because one of its users is thought, rightly or wrongly, to be a spammer.
"The most serious cost of spam," Mr. Voss said, "is also the hardest to figure out: the loss of productivity."
Using himself as an example of an active e-mail user, Mr. Voss estimated that 60 of the 100 messages he gets a day are spam. Most come overnight, because the spammers find response rates highest in the morning. So when he checks his e-mail first thing in the morning, he is rapidly tapping his delete key. 
"Recently came a message with the subject line, 'Here is your activation code,' " he said. "In my morning haze, before the coffee sunk in, I assumed it was spam." In fact, it was the password for his new BlackBerry pager. It took three weeks for him to figure out what had happened and to request another. 
Deleting spam has become like exercising: a dreary chore for many, and a passionate activity for a few. 
"Every single day, two or three times a day, I'm erasing multiple messages that I have to spend at least a few seconds glancing at to make sure it's not something I need," said Brian Basham, a commercial and residential real estate broker in downtown Denver. 
"I would say I'm the kind of guy who is worth $100 to $200 an hour," he said with a snort. "By the end of the year, who knows how many hours I spent looking at this stupid stuff to figure out what's junk?"
For big companies, the challenges are much the same, but on a large scale. Companies like Brightmail, MailFrontier and Sendmail offer spam filtering software that often costs $2 to $15 a user annually. 
In total, corporations will spend $120 million this year on antispam systems, Ferris Research said. (Or $635 million, if one would rather listen to Radicati.) 
At Nortel Networks, the cost of the spam filters is negligible, said Chris Lewis, its security architect, but the real economic burden is the 10 to 15 percent of the spam that still gets through. Employees still receive 5,000 to 10,000 spam messages a day, and Mr. Lewis has calculated that each costs the company about $1 in lost productivity.
Most messages take only 5 to 10 seconds for the user to delete, he estimates. But "some messages use subjects that are quite good at making you read them," Mr. Lewis said. "Then there are people who get really upset and are put off work for an hour or half a day."
Even worse, from a time-wasting standpoint, is when a top executive is upset or mad about spam. When top executives become angry, after all, they expect someone to do something. "If someone in senior management gets spammed," Mr. Lewis said, "it could take 20 or 30 hours of everyone's time, up and down the chain."
Despite the huge volume, conveying spam is a tiny fraction of the cost of running the Internet. Since the spammers pay for Internet access based on the total network capacity they use, they have an incentive to keep each message small. Network operators say the amount of traffic devoted to e-mail is far less than that for displaying Web pages or, especially, for the swapping of music.
Yet for one of the largest Internet backbone carriers,MCI, the spam explosion has more indirect costs. MCI receives a half-million complaints a month that its network is being used to transmit spam, in violation of its policy. It has what it calls an abuse desk that investigates complaints and disconnects violators. 
Indeed, the biggest single cost to the company is unpaid bills from the spammers it evicts.
"Spammers know they are going to be kicked off, so they won't pay their first few months' bill," said Craig Silliman, the legal director for MCI's network and facilities operation. "By the time you catch them, they turn into a net loss."
At America Online, which manages more than 90 million e-mail accounts, the cost of delivering the spam to users is far less than that of dealing with the problems it leaves in its wake. AOL has developed methods to winnow the processing and storage demands of spam. If a spammer sends one million AOL members a message offering, say, coral calcium, the company can spot it as spam and store a single copy for viewing by as many of the intended recipients as want to read it. 
America Online now simply discards nearly 80 percent of the 2.5 billion e-mail messages sent a day to addresses at AOL.com because they have been flagged as spam. While that requires processing, AOL does not have to bother storing them or consuming network time to distribute them to users.
AOL's filters have become so stringent that it has actually reduced the volume of e-mail it has delivered so far this year, compared with a 70 percent increase last year, according to Joe Barrett, senior vice president for systems operations. 
But that stringency has its own costs: complaints from people who say their e-mail is being blocked unfairly. AOL now has 18 people in its postmaster department, who set the spam filters and take the calls from aggrieved mailers.
At the same time, AOL may well derive competitive benefits from spam, now that spam filters are among the features most promoted by Internet service providers. 
A cost that is hard to measure is the losses from e-mail users defrauded by spammers. One rapidly growing category of e-mail fraud is what is known as phishing, in which e-mail messages purporting to be from a big company ask for credit card and bank information. When credit card numbers are stolen, account holders face the time and bother of putting things right, though most banks do not hold them responsible for losses. But if the spammer buys computer equipment from a Web site with a stolen number, the seller suffers a loss, perhaps never knowing it was an indirect victim of spam.
Another rapidly growing, if hard to measure, cost of spam results from what are known as false positives: legitimate e-mail messages blocked by spam filters.
In fact, there is a new job description at many companies that are voluminous e-mailers -- I.S.P. relations -- for those whose job it is to remove their employers' addresses from Internet service providers' blacklists.
False positives are a particular concern for the Web auctioneer eBay, on whose site sellers and buyers often exchange several e-mail messages before completing a transaction. "We hear from bidders that they tried to contact sellers, and the sellers say they never heard from them, and it turns out they are both right because of spam filters," said Rob Chestnut, eBay's vice president for trust and safety. 
False positives have become so extensive that the research firms, which have spent so much time assessing the cost of spam and the need for spam filters, now have a new research topic. "We have a report coming out in the next two weeks," said David Ferris, who runs the research company bearing his name. "We think companies lose $3 billion dealing with false positives."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the economic costs of unsolicited commercial e-mail, or spam, referred imprecisely to an estimate by the Radicati Group, a research company. Its $20.5 billion figure referred solely to corporate information technology globally. It did not include losses of worker productivity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Rollins, left, and Al DeOliveira working at America Online, in Reston, Va., which estimates that 80 percent of its e-mail is spam. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "An Imprecise Science"Analysts agree that spam is a costly problem, but research firms have divergent estimates of the cost to American companies. Annual cost of spam, per worker Osterman Research: $1,400Nucleus Research: 874Ferris Research: 168The Radicati Group: 49 (Source by The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "Educated Guesses"Researchers agree that spam is a waste of time, but estimates vary widely on how much time workers spend dealing with spam. Nucleus ResearchSPAM MESSAGES A DAY: 13AVG. TIME TO PROCESS SPAM (In seconds): 29 The Radicati GroupSPAM MESSAGES A DAY: 11AVG. TIME TO PROCESS SPAM (In seconds): 84 Ferris ResearchSPAM MESSAGES A DAY: 10AVG. TIME TO PROCESS SPAM (In seconds): 4 (Source by The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (93%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL 

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (91%) FERRIS RESEARCH; RADICATI GROUP 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



651 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
As OPEC Prepares to Meet, It Considers Iraqi Exports
Iraq seems poised to resume a steady flow of oil exports starting in August. For months, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has been puzzling over what that infusion of oil into world markets might mean for prices and what members should do to hold prices in a profitable range.
 On the cusp of the group's next meeting Thursday in Vienna, the answer seems to be nothing, industry analysts said. This indicates OPEC's comfort in the relative price of oil, which has hovered above $25 a barrel for most of the year. Page C7. 

AT&T Questions MCI Rerouting
AT&T plans to tell a bankruptcy court today that MCI telephone traffic from government agencies, including the State Department, has been rerouted through Canada to avoid tariffs owed to local phone companies. AT&T and other competitors of MCI object to MCI's bankruptcy reorganization plan. Section A.

Same-Sex Ceremonies in Bride
After 70 years of helping brides walk down the aisle, Conde Nast's Bride's magazine has crossed a threshold of its own. Its September-October issue, on newsstands now, contains a full-page article on same-sex ceremonies. This is the first time that any of the five top-selling bridal magazines has published such a feature. C6.

Steady Marketing for 'Seabiscuit'
In its opening weekend, "Seabiscuit" placed in the top 5. The question is whether the film will live up to its carefully calibrated $35 million marketing plan, which was created not for an opening-weekend throng, but for a steady stream of moviegoers in the coming weeks. Advertising. C7.

State Budgets Hurt U.S. Economy
Having already stripped the nation of a source of economic growth, the budget crises in California and in almost every other state are now dragging down the national economy, prolonging the weak, jobless recovery. Section A.

Economists say the nation should work to improve the quality of the labor force freed up as jobs move overseas. New Economy. C3.

More Online Music Stores Expected
The introduction of BuyMusic.com, an online music download store meant for consumers who eschew music piracy, was promoted by its owner as the first of many single-song download services expected from media sites and retailers. Apple's iTunes service was first. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

Online music-selling services have far fewer restrictions than they used to, but they do not necessarily travel well. C3.

Companies Record Calls for Quality
Continental Airlines -- along with a growing number of companies that interact with customers by phone -- records not only voices but also every computer screen that agents view during calls and every mouse click they make along the way. The idea is to mine customer interactions for insights into ways to improve their businesses. C3.

Marriott Settles With Hotel Owner
Marriott International has settled a closely watched lawsuit with the owner of a hotel in Charleston, W.Va., that it manages. The settlement, expected to be announced today, ends a long dispute between the owner, In Town Hotels and Marriott. C4.

MSNBC Hires Longtime Producer
MSNBC has recruited a seasoned television news producer, Tamara Haddad, to run its 6 p.m. political program "Buchanan and Press," the network is expected to announce as early as today. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,284.57 up 96.42Nasdaq composite -- 1,730.70 up 22.2010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.18% up 0.18The euro -- $1.1508 up 0.0230The dollar -- 118.83 yen up 0.42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); MUSIC (87%); BUDGETS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MARKETING PLAN (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (71%); NEWSSTANDS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); NEW ECONOMY (68%); INTERNET RETAILING (65%); SALES & SELLING (65%); MUSIC STORES (65%); RANKINGS (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); APPLE INC (51%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (51%); UAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



652 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 National Edition 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: The Ethiopian Famine 

 BODY:
Famine is again stalking Ethiopia -- this time casting a wider shadow. While a million people died in the famine of 1984 and 1985, today more than 12 million are at risk, half of those children under 15. Perhaps the most chilling aspect of today's crisis is that the famine persists despite generous outside food aid. Donations of wheat, soybeans and oil can stave off much of the starvation in the short term, but they cannot keep hunger from returning year after year. 
 Drought is the primary reason Ethiopians go hungry, but it intertwines with other factors that keep Ethiopians too poor and too sick to recover from drought years. The world, which thankfully has fully met Ethiopia's appeal for emergency food, needs to address these underlying problems. While Ethiopia is an extreme case, it is an ominous leading indicator of what may soon happen in other African nations. 
 Rural Ethiopians have never fully recovered from the famine of 1984, nor the severe droughts that have come after, especially in 1999 and 2000. The impact of drought in Ethiopia is magnified by the country's deforestation and the depletion of soil by farmers who cannot afford to let land lie fallow. The effects of dry periods linger long after the rains return. Drought reduces harvests and deprives livestock of water and pasture, forcing farmers and animal herders into a spiral of debt. Washington's extravagant subsidies for America's cotton farmers have added to the problem by undercutting the export market for Ethiopian cotton, one of the country's major products.
Even if the rains are good, each year Ethiopians get hungrier. Next year they will have poorer health, fewer cows and sheep, a smaller stock of seeds, less money and more debt than this year. The long-term issue is poverty -- famine hits those too destitute to buy food or produce their own.
Fighting famine inside Ethiopia means providing not only emergency food but also programs to help people emerge from the trap of destitution. Rural Ethiopians need more markets for their crops and better roads to be able to move their products to other parts of the country. They could use projects to make water accessible to poor peasants, seed banks and programs to increase livestock supplies. And they need better health care -- the government spends only $1.50 per person for health care each year, although Ethiopia now has more than two million people with the AIDS virus, and the infection is exploding.
Some countries in southern Africa are also beginning to suffer from hunger that does not go away, and their tribulations may turn into persistent famine as droughts intensify and AIDS incapacitates more and more workers. International donors are much readier to ship grain than to attack difficult, long-term development goals. But without such help, food aid will become a permanent necessity. Famine is not a sudden event but an evolving process, one that involves much more than food. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMINE (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (79%); STARVATION (79%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (71%); COTTON FARMING (71%); FARM LABOR (69%); AIDS & HIV (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); DEFORESTATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); VIRUSES (50%) EDITORIALS; FAMINE; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOOD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ETHIOPIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%) ETHIOPIA

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



653 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: California Screamin' 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; Bob Herbert is on vacation.; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The humorist S. J. Perelman used to say his wife was "afflicted with total recall." That affliction has now seized California.
 Not a year after re-electing Gov. Gray Davis, fickle residents of this Democratic suzerainty are suffering from voter remorse. Polls show his popularity down to 21 percent and that more than half are seriously thinking of throwing him out. 
 A petition obtained enough signatures last week to put his recall on the ballot. The lavishly spending state is in political chaos, its bonds approaching junk status. Buzzards are circling, Republican candidates are sprouting like weeds and the avid thumbsucking of pundits is heard in the land.
The October ballot offers voters two choices: first, whether to recall the governor, and second, if that gains a majority, to offer a list of candidates to replace him. If the recall vote fails, the second vote is meaningless; but if it succeeds, whoever gets a plurality becomes governor. 
Put yourself in the shoes of Davis's campaign manager. Your man is deeply disliked. He won re-election by a dirty trick, interfering in a Republican primary to choose the weakest opponent. Before the election, Davis concealed the looming budget crisis from the voters, and now, even with total Democratic control of the state, cannot right the ship. 
A political nightmare? Just the opposite. You adopt the Marshal Foch strategy: with your front crumbling and your flanks collapsing, attack.
Your first move is to make sure no respectable Democrat allows his or her name to be put on the second vote. If Senator Dianne Feinstein, say, became a replacement possibility, Democrats would cast their first vote to dump Davis and second vote for the popular senator. You must make certain the party, the labor unions and the trial lawyers -- the groups whose fingers are around the state government's throat -- combine to make a pariah out of any Democrat who dares to offer a Democratic choice.
Your second move is to take advantage of the money-raising advantage of an officeholder under attack. Davis is permitted to raise money in chunks from fat cats and his spending is unlimited; contributions to his would-be replacements must come in much smaller sums with restrictions, favoring Republican millionaires like Arnold Schwarzenegger, Richard Riordan and Representative Darrell Issa.
Rather than try to build up trust in Davis, a hopeless task, your next move is to appeal to independents and especially Republicans with this high-toned message: California should not upset the American tradition of fixed terms, bringing instability to the political system and making the state a laughingstock. Subsidiary theme: the challenge is costing taxpayers $35 million better spent saving schools. 
Then whip up Democrats with a Clintonian pitch: this recall campaign is a conspiracy by millionaire right-wing kooks tooverturn a legal election in a nefarious coup, which would be followed by spending slashes that would close schools, empty hospitals and starve the old folks. 
Bring in both Clintons as well as all Democratic presidential candidates. Keep Davis off the tube until the end, when you buy statewide time to telecast a movie-star-studded rally, followed by a short, penitent, promissory pitch from the embattled governor to rescind his $150 car tax.
But what if Ah-nold and Riordan agree on which one is to run, ensuring one of them victory on the second ballot? As Oct. 7 approaches, you, as Davis's manager, will look shyly away as millions are steered into "independent" committees to slam the emerging candidate. 
Meanwhile, count on White House gurus to suggest that it would be better for Republicans for Davis to defeat the recall, remaining to twist unpopularly in the wind, giving Democrats a bad name and Bush a boost in a presidential campaign year. 
Result: Davis would be the latest Comeback Kid. The failure of the recall would be seen as a vote of confidence. You, as manager of what seemed a hopeless campaign, would be the hero who turned back the Recall of the Wild. 
That's the plan. If it succeeds, a lesson will be driven home: crimes in office can be dealt with by impeachment, but when knee-jerk voting leads to profound misjudgment, the voters' recourse should await the next regular election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PETITIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BALLOTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BONDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TRENDS (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); CONSPIRACY (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LAWYERS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) RECALL (ELECTIONS); GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); DARRELL E ISSA (57%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



654 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: 50 Years Later, Veterans Revisit Still-Divided Korea 

BYLINE:  By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

DATELINE: PANMUNJOM, South Korea, July 27 

 BODY:
At a commemoration here today of the 50th anniversary of the Korean War armistice, Glen Davis, a 71-year-old veteran from Paden, Okla., had lingering thoughts of the day the conflict started and how he, an Army medic stationed in Japan, found out about it.
 "It was a Sunday, so we were out in town, and the Japanese started saying, 'North Korea's invaded South Korea!' " Mr. Davis said, recalling that day, June 25, 1950. "We were so dumb. We didn't even know what North Korea or South Korea was. I didn't know." 
 American soldiers like Mr. Davis fought for three years in what became the cold war's first conflict and remains its last unresolved one, with the two Koreas still technically at war and with 37,000 American troops stationed here.
Today, under heavy rains, about 1,500 veterans from the United States and allied nations, most of them in their 70's and some in wheelchairs, gathered here in this corner of the demilitarized zone where the armistice was signed.
Gen. Leon J. LaPorte, of the United States Army, called today's event a "celebration," but it was a subdued one, given the nuclear crisis that has hung over the peninsula since October. Also, for many American veterans, visiting South Korea for the first time in decades, the realization that it had matured into a prosperous democracy was somewhat offset by the growing anti-Americanismhere and the continued partitioning of the peninsula.
That division is at its clearest here in Panmunjom. A so-called Military Demarcation Line separating the two Koreas runs through the village and through a cluster of small white-and-blue buildings that are used for meetings. Veterans clutching cameras lined up to enter one building in which a large conference table straddled the line. "Would you like to go to North Korea, sir?" a military guide asked visiting veterans, as they stepped across to take pictures.
Several hundred yards into the North, a lone North Korean soldier stood watch, the only apparent activity on that side. North Korea -- which was not invited to this ceremony and every year celebrates what it calls victory in the Great Fatherland Liberation War -- denounced it earlier in the United Nations. 
At a separate event this afternoon, President Roh Moo Hyun of South Korea urged North Korea to abandon its nuclear program. "The issue must be resolved peacefully without fail through dialogue," said Mr. Roh, who was elected on a wave of anti-Americanism that has strained the alliance between South Korea and the United States.
A rising number of South Koreans regard the United States, more than North Korea, as the source of the current crisis. Instead of viewing the American troops as protectors, they view them as an affront to South Korea's independence. 
"It's just perplexing," Mr. Davis said, shaking his head. "It's just puzzling to me that the young people would think that way. We've been here for 50 years keeping the peace. They've never really had it so good."
Don Duncan, a 70-year-old veteran from Indianapolis, brushed away those sentiments. "Kids will be kids," he said. "Kids here and everywhere in the world will act up."
Still, Mr. Duncan said he favored withdrawing the American troops for another reason. "It's a big burden on the American people," he said. "And the South Korean government is strong enough to do the job."
Since a peace treaty was never signed, the border here remains the world's most heavily militarized, with the American troops and 700,000 South Korean soldiers aligned against North Korea's 1.1 million troops. More than 33,000 American soldiers and 360,000 South Korean soldiers were killed during the war; half a million North Korean and Chinese troops are believed to have been killed.
In 1953, the industrialized North was richer than the largely agricultural South. By 2002, South Korea had a gross domestic product of $505 billion, dwarfing North Korea's $15 billion.
Politically, North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, keeps a grip on the power he inherited from his father, Kim Il Sung. In South Korea, which has democratized after a period of military rule, Mr. Roh is the country's fourth democratically elected leader since 1987.
To American veterans, especially those coming back here for the first time since the conflict, the changes in South Korea amounted to profoundly satisfying justification for their service. Cities of low buildings and graveled roads had given way to the skyscrapers of Seoul, the sophisticated capital of a country with the world's highest percentage of broadband Internet users.
"In South America or other parts of the world, there's nothing to show for the money we've spent over the years," said Robert Baldwin, 70, a veteran from Lake City, Mich. "I guess it's all gone into dictators' pockets. But here you can see it everywhere, it's in the material changes everywhere."
Returning here for the first time in half a century, Leo Beaudin, 71, who after the war worked as a New York Port Authority police officer, marveled at the modernity of a country he had seen destroyed.
"If I die right here," Mr. Beaudin said, standing not too far from the line dividing the two countries, "I wouldn't be happier. To see some of the fruits of your efforts. Say if we came back here and it was the same it had been? This is success, my friend."
Mr. Beaudin was so impressed that he had written postcards singing South Korea's praises. Clutching those he had yet to mail, he picked out the one he was sending a son in Manhattan:
"Chris -- Next vacation this is where you go. The people are wonderful. City is alive. Plenty to do and good food to eat. Girls are classy and beautiful. We'll speak when I get back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Korean War veterans from several countries at a monument yesterday in Seoul commemorating the war. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A9) Map of South Korea highlighting Panmunjom: The division of the Korean Peninsula is most vivid at Panmunjom. (Map by The New York Times)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); VETERANS (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); WEATHER (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); POLITICS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) KOREAN WAR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%)

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU; ROH MOO HYUN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%) PANMUNJOM (KOREA); NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



655 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: New Rules Urged to Avert Looming Pension Crisis 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
Top government officials have begun a calibrated campaign to bring attention to corporate pension plans, which they say may be on a road to collapse. But underneath their measured words are proposals that could fundamentally change the $1.6 trillion industry, altering the way pension money is set aside and invested. 
 On Wednesday, the comptroller general placed the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the agency that guarantees pensions, on a list of "high risk" government operations. Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor, issued a statement on the same day warning that the decades-old system in which workers earn government-guaranteed pensions "is, unfortunately, at risk." 
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, a former railroad chief executive who had responsibility for a $1.3 billion pension fund, warned recently that a financial meltdown similar to the savings-and-loan collapse of 1989 might be brewing. 
Steven Kandarian, the executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, gave a speech earlier this month in which he foresaw a possible "general revenue transfer" -- polite words for a bailout of the agency. Before being named to head the agency, Mr. Kandarian was a founding partner and managing director of the private equities firm of Orion Partners.
While officials want to underscore the dangers to retirement benefits that millions of Americans count on, they do not want to frighten consumers, roil financial markets or anger the companies that already put billions of dollars into the system.
But some pension analysts, reading between the lines, say they think that officials are not only looking at calling upon companies to put more money into their ailing pension plans -- a painful prospect at a time when cash is tight -- but also at the more radical remedy of encouraging funds to reduce their heavy reliance on the stock market. 
At issue are defined-benefit pensions, the type in which employers set aside money years in advance to pay workers a predetermined monthly stipend from retirement until death. Today, about 44 million private-sector workers and retirees are covered by such plans. Three years of negative market forces have wiped away billions of dollars from the funds, triggering the defaults of some pension plans and leaving the rest an estimated $350 billion short of what they need to fulfill their promises.
Until recently, the idea that America's pension edifice was built on a flawed foundation was preached by a tiny number of financial specialists and considered heresy by almost everyone else. But after several years of declines in the stock market, there is a growing argument that pension managers, who have been investing most of their money in stocks for years, should be in predictable bond investments that would mature when the money will be needed, matching the retirement ages of their workers.
Now the view is gaining ground in academia, and getting a fair-minded hearing by well-placed financial officials, who are incorporating some of its reasoning in their pension proposals.
The measures they have put forward bear little resemblance to those considered earlier this month in a rancorous House Ways and Means Committee session. The House pension bill is more generous to business. If enacted, it would lop tens of billions of dollars off the amounts companies would pay into their pension funds in each of the next three years. Businesses favor the bill's approach, but hoped to make its changes permanent.
Treasury officials say they think that this approach would put benefits at risk, particularly at companies with older workers who will be claiming their pensions soon.
"The fact of the matter is that more money is needed in those plans, to ensure that older workers receive the benefits they have earned through decades of hard work," said Peter R. Fisher, under secretary for domestic finance, in testimony to a House subcommittee panel earlier this month.
The high number of pension funds that have defaulted has already severely weakened the pension insurance agency, raising fears of a bailout. The agency finances its operations by charging companies premiums, and it still has enough cash flow to make all of its payments to retirees for now.
But its deficit has grown to record size, and it cannot keep absorbing insolvent pension plans indefinitely. It could raise premiums, an unpopular idea with companies, or in dire straights it could turn to the taxpayers for more money. Permitting companies to pay less into their pension plans would only increase the risk of such a bailout. Thus, the Treasury's calls for what Mr. Fisher called a "comprehensive reform." 
Unknown to most Americans, a small group of finance specialists has been making the case for a number of years that pension funds are in danger because their managers invest heavily in stocks. These analysts were hooted at during the stock boom years of the 1990's, but in the aftermath of a three-year bear market, their arguments are being considered more carefully.
Money managers of all sorts invest in stocks, of course, and no one is questioning stocks for mutual funds, foundations or university endowments. But pension funds are different, the argument goes, and they require a different strategy: stocks when workers are young, perhaps, but later on, as workers age, an ultraconservative portfolio of bonds, with durations shortening as they approach retirement.
This type of pension investment strategy went out of style in the 1960's and is little used today. (Life insurers make a notable exception, using what they call duration-matched bonds when they issue annuities.) Stocks are widely assumed to return more over time than bonds held to maturity, and have therefore seemed a cheaper investment vehicle. 
And the implications of a revival of the old strategies would be profound. Pension funds, with assets worth roughly $1.6 trillion at the end of 2002, make up a significant share of the stock market and help to drive its movements. Suggestions that pensions might be safer if this money were placed elsewhere are not warmly received on Wall Street.
If anything, corporate pension managers appear to be moving toward more risk, not less. The composition of pension portfolios is not generally disclosed, so trends are hard to track. But anecdotal evidence suggests that pension managers are turning to hedge funds, real estate investment trusts, emerging markets and other riskier investments, in an effort to recoup the stock losses of the past three years.
Companies appear to be "making the smallest contributions allowed, while taking investment risk in the hope that their gamble will pay off," said Jeremy Gold, an outspoken advocate of duration-matched bonds for pensions funds.
The notion that low-risk bonds might be the solution to the pension problems, which sounds so radical to companies, is not being uttered by cabinet members. Ms. Chao and Mr. Snow have drawn attention to the pension problems, but have not put forward specific remedies. When he mentioned the savings and loan crisis, in a meeting with reporters and editors of The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Snow cautioned that he did not want to overstate its similarities to today's pension difficulties.
Mr. Snow did go on to say, though, that the same ailment that felled the savings and loan institutions in 1989 is now eating away at pension funds: a mismatching of assets and liabilities. And he noted that, like the savings and loan institutions, pensions are covered by a federal insurance agency. The presence of a federal insurer in such cases is sometimes said to promote riskier behavior.
The job of developing and putting forward a specific response to the pension danger has been left to officials below cabinet rank, close to the pension insurance agency. The Treasury's Mr. Fisher outlined the administration's ideas in some detail in his Congressional testimony. He recommended, foremost, a new way of calculating pension obligations, which would take employee demographics into account. This method would recognize that pension payments owed to workers retiring soonest need to be funded more securely than those for much younger workers.
Mr. Fisher also called for less reliance on "smoothing," the practice of averaging factors over several years when pension values are calculated.
Pension calculations involve the use of interest rates, but since real-world interest rates zig-zag up and down, they are smoothed in an effort to keep the pension numbers stable. Currently, the smoothed rate used by actuaries is an average of historic rates from the past four years. 
Mr. Fisher testified that four years was too long, and that this excessive smoothing was causing the very volatility it was intended to reduce. This happens, he said, because the smoothing blurs the true state of a pension fund, masking deterioration for months at a stretch, until companies find their plans are noncompliant and have to start pouring in money. 
Reducing the excess smoothing would help companies avoid such unpleasant surprises, Mr. Fisher said. He recommended moving gradually from the four-year average to a 90-day average.
Pension specialists who have considered these remarks carefully say they think that what Mr. Fisher is really describing is a way to shift pensions into conservative bond investments. Mr. Fisher said nothing of this in his testimony, but actuaries said the message was implicit: If smoothing is phased out, pension values would start zig-zagging with interest rates, unless managers moved into bonds.
Mr. Fisher declined to elaborate on his testimony.
Separately, Mr. Gold has testified that the administration proposals would help to relieve the pressure on pensions. But he urged the administration to go further "to encourage prudent behavior by plan managers."
Ron Gebhardtsbauer, senior pension fellow for the American Academy of Actuaries, said the problem is that such prudent behavior would cost companies more. 
"Employers kind of like having stocks in there," Mr. Gebhardtsbauer said. "It makes the pension plan cheaper."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Kandarian is the executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. (Photo by Getty Images); Peter R. Fisher, under secretary for domestic finance, testified this month before a House panel. (Photo by Bloomberg News); John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, warned recently of a financial problem with pensions. He has not mentioned a specific remedy. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BONDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); INSURANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; DEFAULTING; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSURANCE 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%) SIC6399 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE CARRIERS; 

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (58%) WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS; KANDARIAN, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



656 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: RED INK IN STATES BEGINNING TO HURT ECONOMIC RECOVERY 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Having already stripped the nation of a source of economic growth, the budget crises in California and in almost every other state are now beginning to drag down the national economy, prolonging the weak, jobless recovery, the latest budget numbers show.
 Over the past two years, the states have gradually cut between $20 billion and $40 billion -- no one knows exactly how much -- from their spending. Billions more in cutbacks are coming in the fiscal year that started July 1. In California alone, a tentative budget deal will presumably require the state to rid itself of at least $8 billion in current spending, with the cuts likely to fall most heavily on education and aid to the poor. 
 The numbers are hard to add up, but even the most optimistic accounting has state spending slowing sharply while tax rates rise along with a variety of fees. Just three years ago, the states were still a plus for the economy. While the private sector had begun to limp, state spending had remained strong and so had revenues, despite cuts in tax rates in several states. 
Today the opposite is happening, and that makes the states a net minus for the national economy. Without that reversal, some economists say, the economy would probably be growing at an annual rate of more than 3 percent, enough to create jobs rather than eliminate them.
"It is reasonable to think that the response by the states to the fiscal crisis is taking at least half a percentage point out of the growth rate of the national economy," said Nicholas Johnson, director of the State Fiscal Project at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington. The annual growth rate has averaged 2.6 percent for the last 15 months.
The cuts in state spending are just starting to be felt, with the impact landing disproportionately on the poor. "We have been shifting a lot of spending for social services from the feds to the states," said Robert M. Solow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Nobel laureate. "And that means the cuts that are taking place are hurting people at the bottom of the income distribution."
That shows up clearly on the ground in California, which has cut spending by $12 billion over the past two years, by far the largest cutback of any state. At James Monroe High School in North Hills in the San Fernando Valley, to take one of thousands of examples, state funding for a technician to service the school's 900 computers disappeared, and state subsidies for teacher aides also dried up, even though enrollment has jumped by nearly 20 percent, to 5,000, since 1998.
Child Support Services in Los Angeles County, which helps single parents collect support payments from former spouses, also got hit, losing $10.6 million in state funds last April, or 7 percent of its budget. In response, 107 temporary employees were laid off, and 100 full-time workers were notified that they could soon lose their jobs, although in the end only 32 will probably go, according to Philip Browning, the agency's director.
Across the state, tens of millions have been cut and continue to be cut from funding for child care and job training, to computerize high schools, pay performance bonuses to public school teachers, purchase library books for elementary schools, subsidize research at state universities, and maintain the value of assets in state employee pension plans. "The fewer deposits in the pension plans mean your budget shortfall is less, but you can't do this for very long," said G. Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute in Washington.
Medicaid outlays are still rising in California, but no longer by enough to cover inflation or the growing number of poor people seeking care, although as part of the Bush-sponsored tax cuts enacted in May, the states are getting a $20 billion one-time infusion of federal money, with half of it earmarked for Medicaid. California's share is $2.4 billion. "It is part of the solution to the $38 billion cumulative budget problem," said Brad Williams, a senior economist at the California Legislative Analyst's Office. "It helps a lot."
That huge deficit is far and away the largest ever accumulated by a state and is a major issue in the recall vote that Gov. Gray Davis faces in November. In the attempt to whittle down the deficit, $560 million came out of state spending in California for kindergarten through 12th grade in the last fiscal year, and more than $530 million disappeared from the $10 billion earmarked by the state for Medicaid, according to Jean Ross, executive director of the California Budget Project, a research organization in Sacramento.
The pain would be worse were it not for some budgetary sleight of hand performed by a legion of state officials across the country. "Their bag of tricks is impressively deep," Mr. Johnson said. "Take Illinois. The state government has sold its big glass office building in downtown Chicago and pocketed the sales revenue, but instead of moving out, it is renting back the building."
Many state governments have been reluctant to lay off workers, preferring instead to freeze hiring and wages and not replace workers who retire or resign. Some states have raised tax rates to help cover salaries and thus minimize layoffs. And a great variety of court fines and fees for service have gone up. Minnesota even came up with a new one: public defenders are no longer furnished free; defendants now pay $50 or more.
The resistance to layoffs has limited the drop in state employment across the nation. Employment hit a peak of 5.023 million state workers in June of last year and has fallen since then by 91,000, or less than 2 percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. At the local government level, employment finally stopped rising this year and flattened out at 13.8 million people, without falling.
The California experience is more extreme by far than what is happening in the other states, but the maneuvering in California to avoid more outright spending cuts is illustrative of maneuvering in state capitals everywhere. In February, for example, the Davis administration sold for $2.5 billion California's right to collect over the next 25 years a total of $5 billion or more in tobacco settlement money. Roughly $30 billion of the $38 billion deficit, in fact, is being dealt with through "borrowing, payment deferrals and other one-time actions," Mr. Williams said.
Then there is the growing practice, evident in California and Minnesota, among other states, of adopting optimistic forecasts of future economic growth and assuming that tax revenues will rise as the forecasts materialize. Minnesota, for example, is counting on the gross domestic product to be growing by early fall at a 3.5 percent annual rate, not the current 2.6 percent.
In still another maneuver, some states have reduced the spending that appears on their books for a given fiscal year by delaying the payment of June subsidies to school districts until July, the start of the next fiscal year in most states. "What it means is that the school districts have to borrow more money so they can get by in June," said William Marx, chief fiscal analyst for the Minnesota House of Representatives.
The states experienced a similar deficit problem in the early 1990's, during the last recession-and-recovery period, but the amounts involved were much less and the impact on the economy almost nil. This time, total spending by the states, which nearly doubled over the decade to more than $1.1 trillion a year, has slowed to a growth rate of barely 1 percent annually from an average of nearly 7 percent in the 1990's.
The slowing has been in response to a sharp drop in state tax revenue, which rose precipitously in the booming late 1990's, in part as a result of the stock market bubble and the capital gains taxes collected on market profits. As tax revenue rose, spending by the states also increased. So did each state's rainy day reserves, even though many states cut taxes during the good years. Now the reserves have been depleted, forcing the states to increasingly cut back spending or find other ways to balance their budgets -- as every state except Vermont is required to do by law.
Because state tax collections are indirectly linked to those at the federal level, the Bush administration's tax cuts have fed through to the states as parallel cuts. But the hardest-hit states, California and Minnesota among them, have been those with progressive income taxes, charging upper income households at considerably higher rates than those at the low end. As incomes have fallen, tax collections have fallen faster in these states than in those without progressive tax rates.
Mr. Marx in Minnesota is counting on a rebound in the economy by early fall to increase employment, incomes and tax collections. His projections of the tax revenues that the state will collect in the current fiscal year rely on the rebound occurring on schedule. 
"We are optimistic in this projection," Mr. Marx said. "But the projection is based on a forecast that was produced for us in February, and the rebound has not happened yet."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the effect of state budget cuts on the national economy referred incorrectly to a Chicago office building owned by the state. While the Illinois budget calls for its sale by June 30, 2004, and the revenue to be used to help balance the budget, the building has not been sold yet.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "No Help Here for a Sagging Economy"Throughout the late 1990's, state and local governments ran budget surpluses that let them increase spending, hire more workers and often cut taxes. Now that the surpluses have turned to deficits, the states have had to cut spending and find other ways to balance their budgets. But they have resisted layoffs. Graphs track state and local budgets and state and local employment since 1996. (Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Economy.com)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (83%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TAX INCREASES (68%); PARAEDUCATORS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TAXATION; FINES (PENALTIES); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COURTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



657 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: After a Century of Luring Tourists, Hawaii Visitors Bureau Is Stripped of Its Worldwide Reach 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, July 27 

 BODY:
The Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau, in one form or another, has been the islands' primary marketing representative to the world for the last century.
 But late last week, the Hawaii Tourism Authority, a cabinet-level board that oversees the state's tourism spending, divided the worldwide marketing contract among five entities, stripping the private, nonprofit visitors bureau of its international component. 
 The shift in who will present Hawaii's public face to world travelers is only the latest cloud to shadow the tourism industry, which accounts for roughly a quarter of the state's economy.
A state auditor's report in June questioned the bureau's accounting practices and use of state money, including some personal expenses that its chief executive, Tony Vericella, charged to the bureau. 
Mr. Vericella, who resigned July 21, is repaying $1,000 in what officials said were inappropriately charged expenses.
Among the inquiries the audit has prompted arean internal management review at the bureau and an audit of the visitors bureau by the tourism authority under the supervision of a special master. Next year's Hawaii Legislature also might decide to look into issues raised by the audit.
"We're all under a lot of scrutiny because we're using tax dollars to market the state," said Frank Haas, marketing vice president for the tourism authority, which was the subject of a critical audit last year. "The question is what's the most effective way to spend those tax dollars, and you have to be able to make a case that you're spending them wisely and efficiently."
Rex Johnson, the chief executive of the tourism authority, said the audit did not affect the awarding of the contracts, which he said was largely completed before the report came out.
The contracts were awarded in bidding that for the first time allowed bidders to compete for parts of the marketing program rather than the entire package, a change that authority executives said was intended to give companies other than the visitors bureau a real chance to compete.
The Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau won the largest part of the program, an annual contract worth about $15 million to lure tourists from North America. About four million North Americans visited Hawaii in 2002, the largest group.
But responsibility for Japan, Hawaii's second-largest market with about one and a half million visitors last year, went to Tokyo-based advertising agency Dentsu Inc., with an anticipated $6 million budget. Marketing in Europe, Oceania and the rest of Asia was awarded to other groups.
The visitors bureau also kept a $1.4 million contract to lure meetings and incentive travelers. The four-year contracts were expected to total $25 million annually, with exact budgets to be negotiated.
"If this had happened two years ago out of the blue it would have been more significant," said Les Enderton, interim chief executive for the visitors bureau. "Sometimes, for whatever the combination of reasons, it's time for change. And that has happened."
Tourism executives and analysts said the impact of the marketing changes on Hawaii's tourism was unclear. Some executives questioned the wisdom of breaking up what they said had been a successful operation since 1903.
Joseph Patoskie, an associate professor at Hawaii Pacific University's school of travel industry management, said the changes in the marketing strategy could provide new inroads to markets in an increasingly competitive world. 
"It's not saying that H.V.C.B. was doing a bad job, but there's a level of competition out there today that may require us to think in a different fashion," Mr. Patoskie said.
David Carey, chief executive of Hawaii-based hotel company Outrigger Enterprises and a former tourism authority member, said: "It remains to be seen whether a multitude of contractors is going to be as effective as a single coordinated contractor. The H.V.C.B. has taken a horribly bad rap for being incredibly effective over the last several years. If you look at Hawaii compared to other destinations, Hawaii is doing phenomenally well. All of these fundamental changes are out of proportion to the things that could have been made better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Linda Lingle of Hawaii, promoting Japanese tourism, was welcomed this month by Shintaro Ishihara, the governor of Tokyo. The Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau recently lost its marketing contract for Japan. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (92%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (92%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (91%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); AUDITS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEETINGS & INCENTIVES TRAVEL (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ETHICS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

COMPANY: DENTSU INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: HAWAII VISITORS AND CONVENTION BUREAU 

TICKER: 4324 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (78%) HAWAII

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



658 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Israel Eases Roadblocks And Votes to Free Militants
Israel reversed an earlier position and voted to free Islamic militants. It also lifted several roadblocks in the West Bank. The moves came just hours before Prime Minister Ariel Sharon flew to the United States, where he could face rare differences with President Bush on Middle East peacemaking. A9

U.S. Soldiers Kill 3 Iraqis
American soldiers fired on a car in Baghdad, killing at least three Iraqis, as an American Special Operations team prepared to raid a nearby house. The operation involved Task Force 20, which is leading the search for Saddam Hussein. A10

The Japanese government sought to sell a skeptical public on sending troops to Iraq after winning the bitterly disputed parliamentary vote. A10

U.S. May Bolster Afghan Aid
The Bush administration is weighing a proposal to seek up to $1 billion in aid to help rebuild Afghanistan. A9

Envoy Appeals to Liberia Rebels
Rebel forces pressed forward in Monrovia, Liberia, in their third attempt in two months to take the city as the United States ambassador appealed to the insurgents to lift their eight-day siege and withdraw. A4

An Almost Peaceful Mutiny
No shots were fired and no real threats were made by either side in a mutiny by a band of junior Filipino military officers and troopers that, when it was over, seemed a caricature of the coups and putsches that keep the Philippines on edge. A3

Voting in Cambodia
Elections were held in Cambodia on whether to retain the long-serving prime minister, Hun Sen, as the country seeks to consolidate its recent tradition of democracy. Voting was generally peaceful, except for a small grenade explosion in the capital, Phnom Penh. A3

Argentines in Custody
At least 40 retired Argentine military officials accused of human rights violations during the 1976-1983 dictatorship are now in custody in Argentina and facing trials in Europe after Argentina's new government moved to strip them of their immunity from extradition. A4

NATIONAL A12-15

The Recall in California Part Vote, Part Spectacle
Interviews around Southern California with Democrats, Republicans and independent voters reinforce what the polls already show: that there is little love for the two-term governor, Gray Davis, who has an approval rate around 20 percent. But that is where the consensus ends and the disorder begins. A1

U.S. Prison Population Grows
The nation's prison population grew 2.6 percent last year, the largest increase since 1999, according to a study by the Justice Department. The jump came despite a small decline in serious crime in 2002. A12

Working to Prevent Rioting
The riots in Los Angeles remain a searing memory for many in Inglewood, Calif. As a verdict nears in the trial of two police officers charged in the videotaped beating of a 16-year-old, about 1,500 so-called peace ambassadors are preparing to fan out into the city to spread the word that violence accomplishes nothing. A12

Senate May Vote on Emissions
Senators John McCain and Joseph I. Lieberman are planning to force a vote on an effort to control global warming when the Senate takes up an energy bill this week. While conceding that their amendment will probably fail, the senators say the debate will help generate pressure on an issue that has prompted much discussion but little legislative action. A14

Hawaiian Agency Faulted
The Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau is being reorganized, the latest cloud over an industry that accounts for roughly a quarter of the state's economy. A12

OBITUARIES B8

James P. Shenton
A Columbia University history professor who combined serious scholarship with a gregarious command of lecture halls and other public forums, he was 78. B8

Norman C. Rasmussen
A former professor of nuclear engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who pioneered a technique for measuring risk at nuclear power plants, he was 75. B8

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Spiritual Leader Visits Pilgrims in Harlem
Sheik Mourtada Mbake, the aging spiritual leader of the Mourides, a Sufi Muslim brotherhood that preaches the virtues of hard work and prayer, is in Harlem this week as part of his yearly journey to each of the far-flung Mouride colonies to reinforce those principles that have propelled his flock out of Senegal and across the world. A1

Councilman to Lie in State
Five flags will frame the coffin of Councilman James E. Davis, who was killed at City Hall last week, and whose body will be brought back there when, historians say, he will become the first person to lie in state in City Hall since World War I. B1

Priest Angers Parishoners
An erudite Roman Catholic priest recently assigned to a working-class parish not far from Newark has angered parishioners by imposing aspects of the Latin Mass on services. B1

ARTS E1-8

SPORTS D1-9

Armstrong Wins Fifth Tour
Aglow in the yellow jersey of the Tour de France leader, Lance Armstrong rolled into Paris, joining four other riders as five-time winners of the Tour. Mr. Armstrong was joined by the other living five-time winners, from left, Bernard Hinault, Eddy Merckx and Miguel Indurain. Mr. Indurain was the only man to win the Tour de France five times consecutively before Armstrong. D1

Baseball Immortals Enshrined
First baseman Eddie Murray and catcher Gary Carter where enshrined as the newest members of the baseball Hall of Fame. Also honored were Bob Uecker, to the broadcasters wing, and Hal McCoy, who was elected to the writers wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

New Charges Against MCI
AT&T has evidence that domestic telephone traffic diverted by MCI through Canada to avoid tariffs included calls that were placed by the State Department and other government agencies, a senior executive at AT&T said. The accusation is to be disclosed to government investigators and a bankruptcy court in Manhattan today. A1

States are Drag on Economy
Having already stripped the nation of a source of economic growth, the budget crises in California and in almost every other state are now beginning to drag down the national economy, prolonging the weak, jobless recovery. A1

Possible Pension Plan Changes
Top government officials have begun a calibrated campaign to bring attention to corporate pension plans that, they say, may be on a road to collapse. But underneath their careful words are proposals that could fundamentally change the way pension funds are set aside and invested. A1

Music Pirates and the Law
A blizzard of subpoenas from the recording industry seeking the identities of people suspected of illegally swapping music is provoking fear and professions of remorse as the targets of the anti-piracy dragnet learn that they may be sued for hundreds of thousands of dollars in damages. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The trial of Zacarias Moussaoui; fresh hope for fat cats; you've got courriel; New York's fake conventions.

Columns: William Safire.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E6
Crossword E6
Weather D10
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); EXTRADITION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); COUPS (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); RELIGION (73%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); RIOTS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (62%); PRISONS (60%); GOVERNORS (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); LIBERIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



659 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: City Hall Ready For Councilman To Lie in State 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The city worker placed an American flag in the rotunda of City Hall yesterday morning, making sure the gold-colored eagle atop the pole faced forward and that the furl was just right. Then he put up the New York State flag, the New York City flag, the white Brooklyn flag and the prisoner-of-war flag.
 The five flags will frame the coffin of City Councilman James E. Davis, who was killed at City Hall last week, and whose body will be brought back today and lie in state. It will be the first time anyone has lain in state in City Hall since World War I, historians say. 
 When Mr. Davis's open coffin is brought to City Hall for the noon viewing -- and displayed beneath an ornate coffered dome that was built to recall the Pantheon in Rome -- he will join a select group of other dignitaries who have been accorded the honor, including Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, Henry Clay and Horace Greeley.
The last person to lie in state in City Hall, historians said, was John Purroy Mitchel, a reform mayor who, after being defeated in 1917 by the Tammany Hall candidate, enlisted in the air corps and was killed in a training accident in 1918.
"The skies were threatening, and the crowd which had collected around City Hall Park was not particularly large," said the New York Times's account. "But as the guidon of the mounted police appeared, every head was bared, and almost without exception the men in the crowd held their hats above their hearts."
When Fiorello H. La Guardia, the colorful three-term mayor, died in 1947, he lay in state at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, where a crowd estimated at 45,000 filed in to pay their last respects.
Kenneth T. Jackson, the president of the New-York Historical Society, said allowing people to lie in state in City Hall was unusual. "It's very, very rare," he said. "But political assassinations in New York are very rare. I can't think of another."
Mr. Davis, a 41-year-old Brooklyn councilman and former police officer, was shot dead in the City Council chamber on Wednesday by Othniel Boaz Askew, a political opponent whom Mr. Davis escorted past the City Hall metal detectors. Mr. Askew shot Mr. Davis repeatedly at close range. As lawmakers and members of the public scrambled for cover, Officer Richard Burt, who was assigned to guard Council Speaker Gifford Miller, shot Mr. Askew dead. 
Mr. Askew had planned to run against Councilman Davis in the September primary. On the morning of the killing, he called the Federal Bureau of Investigation and complained that Mr. Davis had pressured him to leave the race by offering him jobs and threatening to disclose that he was gay and had a sealed criminal record for attacking a domestic partner with a hammer. 
Although other candidates in the race avoided Mr. Askew, saying that he appeared unsteady, Mr. Davis seemed to welcome him and even began to treat him as something of a protege, Mr. Davis's staff members said.
They said that it was Mr. Askew who had been pestering Mr. Davis for a job, and calling him more and more frequently.
On Wednesday, Mr. Askew took his .40-caliber pistol out, stuffed extra ammunition in his sock, left a last will and testament behind on a table in his Brooklyn apartment, and went out, law enforcement officials said, prepared not to return. 
By the afternoon, he and Mr. Davis were both dead in New York University Downtown Hospital. 
Yesterday, several thousand mourners, constituents and city officials gathered at the House of Hills funeral home in Crown Heights, Brooklyn -- on St. John's Place between Brooklyn and New York Avenues -- for the wake. The line stretched for almost the entire block: men in suits and women in church hats, teenagers in shorts and T-shirts, elderly people using umbrellas against the sun.
"We grew up together," said Bruce Beattie, 42, who was in the Samuel J. Tilden High School class of1980 with Mr. Davis. "He's family to me."
Mr. Beattie brought his high school yearbook with him, which had a picture of a young James Davis, then nicknamed Rocky, in the uniform of the school football team, the Blue Devils. 
Others remembered Mr. Davis from his days of wearing another blue uniform, that of the New York Police Department. 
Lt. Eric Adams, a founding member of 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care, came to the wake after holding a news conference outside Mr. Davis's district office calling for stricter gun control laws. 
Council staff members handed out a newsletter from Mr. Davis that had just come from the printers and was to have been mailed out shortly. 
In it, he had written that "although the last months have been filled with anxiety and uncertainty due to war abroad and economic problems at home, I believe the future looks brighter than ever."
In the evening, many officials, including Speaker Miller, Senator Charles E. Schumer, many council members, Bloomberg administration officials and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, attended the wake. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who met with Mr. Davis's family and staff last week, did not attend the wake. The mayor had no public schedule this weekend, and his aides would not say whether he was in town or not. 
At City Hall, a flurry of preparations was under way. It had been transformed from the seat of municipal government to a crime scene last week, and it was being transformed once again to a memorial hall. Members of the cleaning staff pushed buffers over the white marble floors. A gray runner was spruced up with Soil Retarding Carpet Shampoo. Ceremonial doors that are almost never used were flung open and dusted off. 
Extra metal detectors were ordered, so the scene of the crime could be open to the public while adhering to new, stricter security standards. 
Signs were posted by the entrances, in front of the metal detectors, announcing the mayor's new decree from last week: "No Firearms Beyond This Point Except Active Law Enforcement Personnel." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two of Councilman James E. Davis's high school teammates, Bruce Beattie, left, and Allan Todd, with their high school yearbook. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SHOOTINGS (76%); WORLD WAR I (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); ASSASSINATION (64%); METAL DETECTORS (50%) City Hall (NYC); City Councils; Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Michael Cooper; James E Davis; Othniel Askew

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ROME, ITALY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



660 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: In Harlem's Fabric, Bright Threads of Senegal 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
For the last week, Senegalese pilgrims have trekked to a normally quiet corner on the western edge of Harlem to await blessings from a holy man. Resplendent in robes of shimmering cotton, colorful turbans perched on the women's heads like exotic birds, they clustered outside a red-brick building named, grandly, the House of Islam. 
 The object of their devotion is Sheik Mourtada Mbake, the aging spiritual leader of the Mourides, a Sufi Muslim brotherhood that preaches the twin virtues of hard work and prayer. Once a year, the sheik, now 83, travels to each of the far-flung Mouride outposts to reinforce those principles that have propelled his flock out of Senegal and across the world. His travels take him to Italy, France and the United States, where Mouride colonies have grown up in New York, Atlanta, Cincinnati, Los Angeles and Washington, D.C. He is now midway through his American visit. 
 From early morning until late at night, the parade of supplicants in Harlem -- cabdrivers and computer technicians, street vendors and accountants -- never stops. Someone has just opened a restaurant or a shop? The sheik muttered a prayer over a bottle of water so the owner could sprinkle the liquid over the premises, assuring success. 
Others, in asking for a blessing, said they had in mind its powers to bring prosperity, health, maybe a green card that would allow them to settle legally in the United States. And always in the immigrants' prayers was work.
"You come to him today, maybe you're working 75 percent," said a livery car driver named Dame, who was reluctant to give his last name. "Then maybe tomorrow, you're working 80 percent, because you are blessed." 
In the universe of New York's widely divergent immigrant groups, the Senegalese have been an especially bright constellation, conspicuous for creating their own economic niche as sidewalk salesmen who peddled umbrellas, incense and purses.
Now, after nearly 20 years in the city, their profile is changing, evident in the professionals who drove pricey new cars in from the suburbs to pay homage to the sheik, and in the bright presence of toddlers thrust toward him for blessing. 
As in many immigrant cultures, the pioneers among the Senegalese Mourides were single men, or men who had left their families behind. Living mostly in cheap shared rooms when they started arriving 15 years ago, they were known for always looking homeward and sending much of what they earned to Senegal, especially to the city of Touba, the capital of Mouride life. 
Touba is still their touchstone, the burial place of the Mourides' founder, Amadou Bamba, a poem-writing mystic who led a campaign of nonviolent resistance to French colonialism in West Africa. He died in 1927. Sheik Mbake is the youngest of his two surviving sons; the other son, who is close to 90, is called the general caliph of the Mourides and runs Touba.
Along 116th Street in central Harlem, in the few blocks that have become known as Little Senegal, the Mourides' bond with home is spelled out on shops and businesses named for Touba. Sheik Bamba, the founder, is evident everywhere, his 1913 photograph displayed like a talisman on posters, calendars, wall murals, fans, clocks and T-shirts. 
Among the entrepreneurs are a slowly increasing number of women, a sign of an immigrant community putting down roots. 
"When I came here there were maybe 10 or 15 women from Senegal," said Diobe Diop, a Mouride woman who came to New York in 1985 to join her husband, who was working in the Senegalese tourism office here. 
"Now we have women with their own businesses," added Mrs. Diop, who is the owner of her own restaurant. "They maybe started out doing hair braiding at someone else's salon, but now they're starting their own." 
In the past few years, other subtle changes have come over the community. There is, most prominently, the House of Islam at 137th Street and Edgecombe Avenue. It opened three years ago, bought and renovated with contributions from Mouride immigrants to serve as their own mosque and community center. 
Their work is also changing. The terror attacks of Sept. 11 brought stricter enforcement of immigration laws. At the same time, the city's economic downturn brought difficulties for the underground economy. 
Some Mourides who gathered at their center last week said they had licenses as street vendors. But many others do not, leaving them open to being arrested for illegal peddling and reported to immigration agents.
Even for those men who took other jobs, often as livery drivers, business has turned sour. Many talked glumly of having to work double shifts to make ends meet or having to live in city shelters.
The next generation of Senegalese immigrants may be better equipped to avoid these difficulties. Increasingly, Mouride immigrants are students and professionals who can move into white-collar jobs, according to community leaders. 
"The mentality before was that America is not home to us, that we are just going to look for money, go home and set up a business," said Fallou Gueye, the president of the Association of Senegalese in America, an organization set up in the back of a Mouride-owned car service office on St. Nicholas Avenue in Harlem. 
Many immigrants, he added, soon realized it would take years to accomplish their goal. Some went back home, then made their way back to New York. "They saw that 'back home' isn't what it should be, economically or politically," said Mr. Gueye. "So they got a little trapped in between."
The most visible change in Mouride life, though, may be the children. Instead of being sent back to Touba until adulthood, to be raised in the intimate embrace of their religion and culture, more and more American-born children are being kept close at hand.
"I like to think that I am multidimensional," said Mr. Gueye, who has his 2-year-old child and his wife with him in New York. "Look, even in Senegal there are bad influences and kids are affected there by the media and rap music. But if my kid can be African and American together, it's good. People can pursue this idea of being pure, being one thing. But it's not doable."
Although they are still small in numbers, a few hundred or thousand in each place, the Mourides from Senegal have also begun to disperse across the country. And they are being recognized by local governments. Today in Harlem, for example, the Mourides will hold their annual parade on what the city has declared Amadou Bamba Day. 
"Most people think that to become a Mouride you've got to sell incense on the street," said Balozi Harvey Muhammad, a New Jersey leader of the group who said he is one of many African-American Muslims who have embraced the Mouride teachings.
The Harlem parade and others during Sheik Mbake's annual visit to the United States, he said, are part of that effort. "We wanted to let people know that everybody is not a street vendor and not a cabdriver, so that Mouride would not be a word for being a street vendor."
Several Mouride colonies in the United States have raised or are raising money to buy their own community centers and mosques. At the Mouride center in Harlem last week, evenings brought celebratory singing in honor of the sheik's visit, which will last for another 10 days. In the basement mosque, under the harsh fluorescent light, 12 men hunched over a microphone, robustly chanting the melodic devotional poetry written by Sheik Bamba, the Mouride founder. 
Upstairs, Sheik Mbake held court, greeting visitors from the depths of a black leather armchair covered with white towels. A gauzy white scarf was draped over his head, matching his wispy white beard and long white gown. A Koran lay open on his chest as his acolytes humbly brought him their offerings and their dreams.
"My message this time has been the same as always -- that they should follow strictly the teachings of Islam and my father," the elderly sheik said one night last week, speaking softly in his native Wolof language. "It's a matter of repeating them, to refresh the mind."
Mustapha Mbake, a great-grandson of Sheik Bamba and an American-based historian of the Mourides, translated his words. 
"His visit focuses on telling us, don't sell drugs, don't commit crimes, work hard and hold on to your faith," said the younger Mr. Mbake, who is 42. "He repeats the same thing: work hard, work honestly and participate in society."
Around the sheik's chair, a dozen men and a small boy sat cross-legged on the floor. They asked for a blessing. The old man stretched out his right hand in benediction, speaking a verse from the Koran. His followers cupped their hands and held them out in turn. 
"Every time you meet him," said Babacar Lo, another community leader who has set down roots in New York, "it's a new blessing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheik Mourtada Mbake, center, leader of the Mourides, with followers at the House of Islam in Harlem. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1); THE OLD WITH THE NEW -- Traditional sandals beside one distinctly American, as their owners prayed.; TRADITIONS IN A NEW LAND -- At the House of Islam on Edgecombe Avenue in Harlem, a woman held her son as men chanted prayers and read the words of Amadou Bamba. In the building's garage, a woman in Senegalese dress spoke on a cellphone.; GREETINGS AMONG THE FAITHFUL -- A Muslim man greeted another with the gesture of holding the other's hand to his forehead, outside the House of Islam on Wednesday night. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); FABRICS (77%); TRENDS (68%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (67%); REFUGEES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SENEGALESE-AMERICANS; ISLAM; PARADES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN; MBAKE, MOURTADA (SHEIK) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); SENEGAL (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (71%) UNITED STATES; HARLEM (NYC); ATLANTA (GA); CINCINNATI (OHIO); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



661 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo; 
Can a 'Wire Brush' Learn Civility?

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27 

 BODY:
The Capitol has always been a place of outsized egos and bare-knuckled politics. Yet even here, Representative Bill Thomas stands out.
 Mr. Thomas, Republican of California, is widely regarded as one of the smartest members of Congress and one of the most abrasive. As chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, he has pushed through every major piece of Republican tax and health care legislation since George W. Bush became president. 
 But in a place that prizes civility, at least on the surface, Mr. Thomas rarely misses a chance to use his sharp tongue. 
Republicans are terrified of him; Democrats call him a bully. Once, in a political scuffle over a tax package, Mr. Thomas told reporters that it would be easier to get inside the head of Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, than the head of Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota and the minority leader, because at least "you bump into things" in Mr. Gephardt's head.
Another time, he dismissed a proposal by former Representative Jim Maloney, Democrat of Connecticut, as "Maloney baloney."
Now Mr. Thomas is vowing to change. In a remarkable mea culpa before the House last week, he tearfully confessed to "poor judgment" in calling the Capitol police to break up a meeting of Democrats. Bent over the podium in anguish, he dedicated himself to better behavior in the future.
"I need your help," he declared, his voice breaking, "and I invite it."
Many lawmakers were stunned; Mr. Thomas, they say, is not the kind of man to admit he is wrong, much less ask for help. But those close to him say they saw the Bill Thomas they know: a man who has struggled for years to contain his personality -- a personality that he has said is his greatest strength and his greatest weakness.
"People, including me, have had discussions with him before about trying to be less acerbic and more tolerant of others, and to be a little gentler," said Representative Jim McCrery, a Louisiana Republican who serves on the Ways and Means Committee. "He's really worked on that."
Mr. Thomas was not talking to reporters last week, at least not about his troubles. (He had plenty to say about taxes and Medicare.) Thursday night, past midnight, as the House was considering legislation to revamp the Head Start program, the chairman could be found hunched over a table in the Speaker's Lobby, an elegant sitting room that runs alongside the House chamber, where members mingle with reporters and each other.
He had a cigar and a slick car magazine in his hand -- he owns a Porsche, friends say, and likes to tinker with it -- as well as a telephone message from Bob Dole, the former Senate majority leader. 
Approached by a reporter, he let loose a tirade about how the Speaker's Lobby used to be a place where a member of Congress could sit in peace, without "being assaulted." Then, after some sparring back and forth, he spoke for about 15 minutes in a way that was brusque, but also honest and at times charming. Every word was off the record.
The portly and bespectacled Mr. Thomas, 61, represents the southern end of California's Central Valley, the cradle of one of the richest farm belts in the nation. He grew up poor -- his father was a plumber and his family lived in public housing for a time -- put himself through college and then taught political science at a community college in Bakersfield. He became chairman of the local Republican Party.
In 1974, when he could not find anyone to run for the state Assembly, he ran himself, beating an incumbent Democrat. He was elected to Congress in 1978.
Friends say he does not much like retail politics, the part of the job that involves kissing babies and shaking hands. "He's not a person that ran for office to ride in a parade or go golfing," said Kevin McCarthy, who spent 15 years working for Mr. Thomas in California and now occupies the Assembly seat once held by his former boss. "He ran to solve problems."
Mr. Thomas' grasp of tax and health policy is legendary. Karen Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, recalls hearing him address the Jackson Hole Group, a collection of economists and health policy analysts who became influential in the early 1990's.
"I remember Bill Thomas talking about how to blend private and public in a way that was both erudite and smart operationally," Ms. Ignagni said. "He's an idea man."
Those who have mastered the complexities of such topics typically enjoy time spent with Mr. Thomas. Those who have not -- and most lawmakers have not -- invariably find him condescending, like the kid who knows he is the smartest boy in the class and feels compelled to prove it.
Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee say they can put up with what Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington and a committee member, calls Mr. Thomas's "wire brush quality." But what they say they cannot put up with is his habit of cutting off their right to debate.
"I have watched him in committee act in a fashion that wouldn't fit polite company," said Norman Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group in Washington. "He has just decided, no matter what the issue, he's going to do it his way and he's going to do it with Republicans, and he's got the votes and if the Democrats don't like it, tough."
Some of that goes with the territory. The Ways and Means Committee chairman's seat has historically been home to strong-willed legislators. And some of it may be payback for the way Democrats ruled the House when they were in the majority. 
Payback or not, many say the latest dust-up over Mr. Thomas has been exploited by Democrats. When Democrats ran the House, the Republicans goaded them and they overreacted. Now that Republicans are in the majority, it is the Democrats' turn to do the goading. In Mr. Thomas, they have found an easy mark.
"They do needle the chairman," Mr. McCrery said. "He has been remarkably controlled and bitten his tongue and not taken the bait. But there are times when he gets so overworked that he truly does become frazzled and forgets to consciously police himself."
Calling the police, people on both sides of the aisle agree, was one of those excesses. House leaders said Mr. Thomas was never in danger of losing his chairmanship as a result. 
But he and fellow committee Republicans were summoned to a meeting with Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, who made his displeasure known.
Now the question is whether Mr. Thomas can really control his temper, or whether he wants to.
Hours after his emotional speech, Mr. Thomas was part of a bipartisan group of lawmakers who went to the White House to talk about progress in the House-Senate negotiations for a Medicare prescription drug benefit bill.
The group announced afterward that it had made progress. But when talk of bipartisanship came up, Mr. Thomas snapped, "You have to practice bipartisanship at all times, not just in front of the cameras."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Bill Thomas, widely regarded as smart but abrasive, said last week that he was dedicating himself to better behavior. "I need your help," he declared to the House, "and I invite it." (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (79%); CAROLYN MALONEY (73%); JIM MCCRERY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; THOMAS, BILL (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



662 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: 2 Senators Aim to Put Others On Record on Emissions Cap 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27 

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Joseph I. Lieberman are planning to compel a vote on an effort to control global warming when the Senate takes up an energy bill this week.
 While the two senators concede that their amendment to the energy bill is likely to fail, they said they thought the debate would help generate political pressure on an issue that had prompted volumes of political discussion but little federal legislative action. 
 "You want to take votes to put people on the record, to make them take responsibility for their positions," said Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona. 
The proposed amendment would set limits on emissions of greenhouse gases from wide swaths of the economy, with exemptions for households, agriculture and small facilities that emit less than a certain amount. However, to ease the impact of those constraints, the proposal would let entities buy and sell the rights to emit more gases under strict limits, using an economic framework similar to the highly successful 1990 acid rain reduction program. Theoretically, reductions would become more cost-efficient as polluters that could reduce their carbon dioxide emissions most cheaply would do so and then could sell their unused pollution rights to others.
The proposed amendment is an adaptation of a proposal that is held up in the Environmental and Public Works Committee. Senator James M. Inhofe, the Oklahoma Republican who is chairman of the committee, opposes the McCain-Lieberman amendment, characterizing it as a backdoor carrying out of the Kyoto Protocol, a binding treaty on climate change that the Clinton administration signed but that the Senate never approved. The Bush administration drew criticism when it later withdrew from the protocol.
"This is one where it's important to be independent and confrontational," said Mr. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut. "Because if you are not, the problem is not going to go away. It's just going to get worse."
Unlike other proposals that include carbon dioxide reduction, the McCain-Lieberman amendment addresses multiple industries. Senator James M. Jeffords, independent of Vermont, and Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware, have introduced legislation that includes carbon dioxide regulation, but is limited to the power industry.
The Bush administration opposes the McCain-Lieberman amendment and carbon dioxide regulation in general.
Many senators are torn between growing public concern about global warming and industry's contentions that carbon dioxide regulations are misguided, unwieldy and essentially amount to an energy tax. The Bush administration brokered voluntary emissions reduction targets with industry this year, but they were criticized as being emissions increases in disguise because the targets were not absolute, but were based on the size of the economy.
According to Senate staff members, Democratic and Republican senators have asked their leaders to prevent a vote.
But environmental groups are welcoming the effort by the amendment's powerful, centrist sponsors, Mr. McCain and Mr. Lieberman.
"We have had this conspiracy of silence in taking the next step and doing something about global warming," said Jeremy Symons, manager of the National Wildlife Federation's climate change program.
Fred Krupp, president of Environmental Defense, which is running newspaper and television advertisements to support the amendment, said: "It's the first serious discussion at the federal level. The ballgame is changing."
Even some conservative groups that doubt human activity contributes to global warming say they welcome a vote. "It will let us know who our friends are and whom we need to educate further on this issue," said Myron Ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute, which opposes controls on greenhouse gases.
But Mr. Ebell said support for the proposal was likely to be inflated by senators worried about maintaining environmentally friendly images. "You are likely to vote for it because you know it's going to fail and you don't want a black mark from the League of Conservation and the Sierra Club in their vote ratings," he said.
The McCain-Lieberman proposal has two stages: one that would begin in 2010, limiting emissions to 2000 levels, and one that would begin in 2016, which would hold emissions to 1990 levels.
The principles behind the amendment have drawn limited industry support as some corporations have concluded that regulation of carbon dioxide is inevitable, given that some foreign governments are continuing to ratify the Kyoto Protocol and state governments are passing legislation to control global warming. 
Public pressure on corporations is also building -- often from within business itself. Investor groups, those that are environmentally conscious and those that are not, have introduced shareholder resolutions to deal with climate change. One such resolution garnered 27 percent of shareholder support at the April shareholder meeting for American Electric Power, the company that is the country's highest emitter of carbon dioxide. Another resolution on climate change introduced at Exxon Mobil's annual meeting in May drew 21 percent shareholder support.
Companies are indicating they prefer the certainty of federal standards to an uncertain patchwork of local regulations and, thus, the cap-and-trade concept has drawn limited support from some Fortune 500 companies, including Alcoa and DuPont.
"They have really tried to take into account a lot of the different interests," said Lee Califf, Alcoa's director of government affairs. "We endorse the concept, but not the bill. A lot of the details about how the system would work are not clear." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (70%); ACID RAIN (69%); CARBON OFFSETS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENERGY AND POWER 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JOE LIEBERMAN (89%); TOM CARPER (59%); JIM INHOFE (59%) LEE, JENNIFER 8; MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



663 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Authorize $1 Billion To Speed Up Afghan Projects 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is weighing a proposal to seek up to $1 billion in aid to help rebuild Afghanistan, administration officials said today.
 Congress authorized $3.3 billion in financial and military assistance over four years in the fall of 2001, but only about $300 million has been spent so far. 
 The new proposal would accelerate some of that spending and request additional money from Congress, a senior military official said. 
The proposal aims to finance projects that could be completed within a year and have a maximum effect before Afghan elections in late 2004. The projects could include building roads and schools, and speeding the training of the Afghan Army, the officials said.
A major purpose of the plan, which is expected to involve State and Defense Department financing and would probably require Congressional approval, would be to shore up the government of President Hamid Karzai and demonstrate both to the American public and to foreign donors that the administration is not neglecting Afghanistan, even as it grapples with the more complex task of rebuilding Iraq.
"This is part of a strategic update that was begun in April or May," the military official said. "It's part of a concerted effort in which, during the time when everyone's attention is focused on Iraq, we're also doing everything we could be doing in Afghanistan."
The aid proposal was first reported today by The Washington Post.
Asked today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" if the United States would send $1 billion in new aid to Afghanistan, Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz said, "We'll wait and see." But he added, "The best thing we can do in Afghanistan is help the Afghan people help themselves, which helps us."
The accelerated financial assistance would likely be on top of the $10 billion the Pentagon is now spending annually to maintain 9,000 United States troops in Afghanistan.
Despite the administration's stated commitment to Afghanistan, many aid agencies, lawmakers and Afghan leaders themselves have warned that the administration has budgeted less for rebuilding the nation than Congress has authorized.
During a visit to Washington in February, President Karzai thanked President Bush both for driving the Taliban from power and for initial reconstruction efforts. 
But Mr. Karzai also brought another message, saying, "I'm also here to ask you to do more for us in making the life of the Afghan people better, more stable, more peaceful."
On July 14 the Afghan foreign minister, Abdullah, made a similar plea during a visit here. Dr. Abdullah said Afghans still trusted Mr. Karzai's government and the American-led recovery effort, but he warned that support could wane without improvements soon in providing jobs, electricity and security.
"They are giving us time -- how long?" Dr. Abdullah asked. "This is my point. The international community should build the capacity in the central government in order to deal with the core issues of security and reconstruction in the economic sector."
International donations to the rebuilding have lagged behind the $4.5 billion pledged last year at a donors' conference in Tokyo. Earlier this month the former top American general in Afghanistan, Lt. Gen. Daniel K. McNeill, warned in an interview that recovery was imperiled unless the international community took bolder steps in rebuilding. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); TALIBAN (78%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TERRORISM (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%) SCHMITT, ERIC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (92%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003 



664 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Race for a Pill To Save Memory 

BYLINE:  By DAVID TULLER

 BODY:
They are called smart pills or brain boosters or, to use the preferred pharmaceutical term, cognitive enhancers.
 But whatever the name given to compounds created to prevent or treat memory loss, drug companies and supplement producers -- eager to meet the demands of a rapidly growing market -- are scrambling to exploit what they view as an enormous medical and economic opportunity. 
 Three drugs being prescribed for Alzheimer's disease -- donepezil (Aricept), galantamine (Reminyl) and rivastigmine (Exelon) -- have been shown to delay somewhat the loss of mental abilities in people with the illness. So has the drug memantine, which has been used for years in Europe but has not been approved in the United States. Some experts also say that performing mental exercises and adding fish oil to the diet can delay memory decline. 
Pharmaceutical companies are investigating dozens of other compounds to see whether they can help people who have memory difficulties but have not progressed to Alzheimer's. Some researchers hope that drugs will eventually prevent the deficits that even healthy elderly people experience.
Much of the excitement among pharmaceutical companies, which have dozens of drugs in development, stems from advances in clarifying some of the brain processes and biochemical pathways that can hinder or help memory storage and retrieval, said Dr. Paul R. Solomon, a professor of psychology at Williams College.
"The basic research into the causes of memory disorders is going very rapidly," said Dr. Solomon, who is also co-director of the Memory Clinic at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington. 
But it will probably be at least five years before any of those drugs meet the standards for approval by the Food and Drug Administration, researchers said. 
Clearly, the market for memory enhancers is growing with the aging of the population.
Dr. Steven T. DeKosky, a professor of neurology and psychiatry at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, says he has noticed a marked increase in anxiety among baby boomers, who are watching their parents descend into Alzheimer's and hoping thatnew medicines will help them avoid the same fate.
"People in their 40's and 50's are saying: 'How can you help my mother? And, by the way, how can I avoid this?' " Dr. DeKosky said. "Ten years ago, people wanted to know how frequently they should have their blood pressure checked and what sorts of food they should eat. Nobody ever asked what they should be doing to prevent themselves from getting a late-life dementia."
Even among those who are already suffering memory loss, Alzheimer's is far from the only source. An estimated four million Americans have it, but millions more suffer from other disorders that can lead to dementia, including Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, stroke, head trauma and schizophrenia.
Experts estimate that an additional four million people have a syndrome called mild cognitive impairment, which may progress to Alzheimer's. People with the impairment can function on their own but have gaps in their memories.
Economic imperatives are also driving the search for new and better treatments for memory disorders. 
The current cost of Alzheimer's alone runs $100 billion or more, said Dr. William Thies, vice president for medical and scientific affairs of the Alzheimer's Association, a research and support group.
If no new medications for memory disorders are found, Dr. Thies added, the number of Alzheimer's patients could quadruple by midcentury.
"That's going to bankrupt our health care system," he said. "So there's a need to find a way to short-circuit that impending disaster." 
Except for extreme cases like advanced Alzheimer's, memory disorders do not generally disrupt what is often called procedural memory, the ability to perform basic tasks or motor skills like riding a bicycle or getting dressed.
Far more vulnerable is episodic memory, the ability to recall specific information about people, dates and events. Many of the new compounds being scrutinized seek to improve the way recent memories are stored, transformed into long-term memories and brought back into consciousness when needed. 
Drugs approved specifically for Alzheimer's are being tested in patients who have mild cognitive impairment. But the medications can have side effects like nausea and diarrhea. So researchers are looking ahead to the second generation of memory enhancers, some of them now in clinical trials.
Some of the drug companies most involved in the search are small enterprises, focused on specific pathways or aspects of brain biochemistry. Memory Pharmaceuticals in Montvale, N.J., is developing compounds that maintain brain levels of a substance called cyclic AMP, which transmits intracellular signals and has been shown in mice to play a role in memory formation and retrieval. 
Another company, Cortex Pharmaceuticals in Irvine, Calif., has two drugs in clinical trials that bind themselves to sites on nerve cells called AMPA receptors. The receptors respond to signals between cells carried by the neurotransmitter glutamate, and the drugs, called ampakines, are intended to enhance the strength of the incoming signal. 
"It's like an amplifier to a stereo set, and you can turn up the volume of brain activity quite a bit by using these compounds," said Dr. Roger Stoll, president, chief executive and chairman of Cortex.
Despite optimism among neuroscientists about eventual success, few expect memory enhancers to be a panacea. Many researchers acknowledge that even if they find effective treatments, there is no guarantee that the drugs will do anything for people who age normally.
There is even less optimism that these drugs will boost the brain power of younger people hoping to master a foreign language or excel on a calculus examination.
Although some drugs have clearly enhanced the ability of animals to learn and perform routine tasks, that does not necessarily mean the same medications will help people remember names and faces, said Dr. Rodney Pearlman, president and chief executive of Saegis Pharmaceuticals in Half Moon Bay, Calif. 
"It isn't clear that animals use the same kinds of memories that humans do," said Dr. Pearlman, whose company is developing several memory enhancers. "A mouse doesn't have to remember a PIN number to get along during the day." 

GRAPHIC: Photo by (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEMORY DISORDERS (90%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); DEMENTIA (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); AGING (76%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (76%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); PSYCHIATRY (74%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); US FDA APPROVALS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); OILS & FATS (68%); AGING TRENDS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); BIOCHEMISTRY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



665 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Under the Sea: Conservation as the Catch of the Day for Trawlnets 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
For more than six centuries, the wide-mouth bottom-scraping nets called trawls have been praised as the ultimate fishing device and cursed as a wasteful destructive scourge on the seas. 
 In 1376, just six years after the nets were first tried in British waters, fishermen complained to King Edward III that trawls, then called wondyrechauns, were "destroying the flowers of the land beneath the water there, and also spat of oysters, mussels and other fish upon which the great fish are accustomed to be fed and nourished." 
 The document even includes what appears to be the first description of what is now called bycatch, captured fish that are unmarketable because they are too small or the wrong species Page 3 .
The petitioners said the trawlers "take such quantity of small fish that they know not what to do with them; and they feed and fat their pigs with them, to the great damage of the Commons of the Realm and the destruction of the fisheries." 
Today, thousands of oceangoing trawlers are set up like floating factories, with slanting platforms astern where bulging nets are drawn up and assembly-line operations where the catch is sorted and flash frozen.
Nets have evolved from crude mesh bags barely wider than the sailboats that dragged them into $100,000 fish-harvesting systems, some broader than a football field and equipped with electronic sensors that detect approaching obstacles.
On "rockhopper" trawls, first deployed in the 1980's, large rollers were added along the bottom edge of the net that allowed hauling over rocky or coral-crusted areas of seabed without snags.
That innovation opened vast new regions to fishing, not only further depleting stocks, but also ravaging the corrugated places on the bottom that provide habitat for fish and the small animals and plants they depend on.
Until recently, every innovation was aimed at catching more fish, with little regard for the ecological consequences. That began to change a decade ago, after biologists started tallying the loss of seabed ecosystems crushed by repeated towing and the vast unintended toll of sea turtles and unwanted fish swept into the gaping bags. 
Fishermen, too, began to recognize that in capturing fish of all sizes they were undermining the health of the resource. 
Since then, under tightening laws, fleets in North American and European waters have begun to shift to designs and practices that curb the bycatch and ecological effects. 
For more than six years, the United States has required that trawled shrimp, whether imported or caught in American waters, come just from nets equipped with special grates called turtle exclusion devices that let shrimp in but divert sea turtles. American shrimp fleets are also increasingly installing grates and escape holes that cut the unwanted fish harvest in shrimp nets.
A sign that times have changed can be seen in the net research under way in a 70-foot-long glass-walled tank of flowing water at Memorial University in St. John's, Newfoundland. Until recently, the tank was used almost entirely to find ways to catch more fish.
Now, 99 percent of the work there is aimed at making fishing less environmentally harmful, said Glenn Blackwood, director of the Center for Sustainable Aquatic Resources at the university.
Scale models of new trawl designs are tested in the tank, and they incorporate escape holes, various mesh styles and other features, all aimed, Mr. Blackwood said, at catching the right fish, not just more fish. 
Other designs glide a yard or two off the seabed without scraping it.
"Historically, we just fished and caught whatever was in the swept area," he said. "Now the focus has to be on surgically removing fish from the ocean." Still, environmentalists and many marine scientists voice complaints that sound very much like that 1376 petition to Edward III -- though in modern language and on an incomparably vaster scale. 
Last year, the National Research Council of the National Academies reported that the complexity of American marine ecosystems was being reduced by towed bottom gear. The council called for a mapping program to add habitat types to coastal charts that now show just topography. And the group recommended reducing overall fishing activity, diverting trawling from the most vulnerable places and changing net design to reduce bycatch.
Other experts recently estimated that trawling now affected stretches of the sea bottom equaling the combined area of Brazil, Congo and India. And the trawled spots are almost all concentrated in the most productive, biologically rich places, the continental shelves and the tops of the underwater mountains called seamounts. 
A survey of fishermen, scientists and other experts published in May by the Marine Conservation Biology Institute, a research and advocacy group in Redmond, Wash., found consistent agreement that bottom trawling was the most harmful commercial fishing method, with damage to the seabed judged worse than the damage to the bycatch.
The report, called "Shifting Gears" and online at www.mcbi.org, noted that 98 percent of marine species lived in, on or just above the sea floor. 
"Our research indicates that shifting to more selective, environmentally friendly gear could mean the difference between having plenty of fish to go around and ecological and economic disaster," said Dr. Ratana Chuenpagdee, a researcher at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science in Gloucester Point, Va., and an author of the report.
But it is clear from history and the continuing spread of technology that trawling will be around as long as humans continue to harvest fish in the wild. Improvements in design may reduce ecological damage but will never prevent it entirely.
For that reason, Dr. Callum Roberts, a fisheries scientist at the University of York in Britain, recently urged in a report to the European Union that the only way to continue to trawl and still have something worthwhile catching was to put substantial parts of the oceans off limits.
"Yes, we should have the underwater equivalent of intensive agriculture -- the muddy seabed plowed by trawls," Dr. Roberts wrote. "But give us wilderness, too, the nature reserves and national parks."
Without them, he concluded, "the seas will become a sorry shadow of their former abundance and the giants that we once hauled from them creatures of imagination alone."

Online Resources
Andrew C. Revkin discusses the challenges facing the world's oceans, at nytimes.com/science. 
Many Web sites discuss the uncertain future of fisheries. Here are a few:
"The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture," a report produced by the Food and Agriculture Organization, is at www.fao.org/sof.
Using animation and video, scientists and conservation groups illustrate the loss of marine resources at www.shiftingbaselines.org.
The National Fisheries Institute defends fishing practices at www.nfi.org.
Information on toothfish and seabirds from the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources is at www.ccamlr.org. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The progression of knowledge of a sea floor off Cape Cod shows, from left, notations from an 1855 survey; a topographic map with lines of acoustic soundings; and a map based on sonar, video and other data. (Photo by Ocean Studies Board/The National Academies); A ship from the Murmansk trawling fleet of Russia is typical of today's factory fishing vessels. (Photo by John Varoli) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); FISHING BYCATCH (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (88%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FISHERIES (78%); SHELLFISH FISHING (78%); ANIMALS (76%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (76%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); BIOLOGY (74%); PETITIONS (54%); MAMMALS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



666 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: France Raises $1.4 Billion in Sale of Renault Shares 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, July 28 

 BODY:
Struggling to ease its strained finances, the French government today auctioned off a part of its stake in Renault, France's second-biggest automaker, raising 1.2 billion euros, or $1.4 billion.
 The government sold 24.2 million shares, or roughly 8.5 percent of the company, according to J. P. Morgan Chase, which managed the sale with Deutsche Bank and Societe Generale. The government retained a 15 percent stake. 
 Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin's government has been at odds with the European Union over imbalances in its accounts, as the economic slowdown and continued generous spending by the government have caused the national debt and the size of the deficit to exceed the limits set under the so-called stability pact that governs the finances of states using the common currency, the euro. 
The government has said it will seek to sell assets in nationalized companies totaling as much as 8 billion euros this year. Under European Union rules, the government may not use the money to cut deficits directly, but it can be employed to ease financial pressure elsewhere, for example, at the state railway and in national defense industries.
Many of the major European economies, including Germany and Italy in addition to France, have come under harsh criticism from the European Union for their excess debt and deficits. Several leaders, including President Jacques Chirac of France and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, have called for a more lenient interpretation of the pact. 
Mr. Raffarin's finance minister, Francis Mer, has projected that French public sector debt will amount to about 60.5 percent of total economic output this year, and as much as 61.4 percent next year, compared with a eurozone limit of 60 percent. He has said that the deficit could rise this year to as much as 3.6 percent of economic output, up from 3.1 percent last year, against a 3 percent cap mandated by the euro pact. 
Analysts said the government action on Renault was prompted by the recent recovery in Renault's share price, which has risen almost 10 percent since January. J. P. Morgan said in a statement the government's "medium-term holding objective" was about 15 percent, "contributing to the stability of Renault's capital."
Analysts said further asset sales would be difficult. The continuing malaise of the airline industry is blocking plans to sell shares in the national carrier Air France and the aircraft engine maker Snecma; the sale of government stakes in electronics and telecommunications companies, like the military electronics company Thales and France Telecom, are stymied by legal hurdles and continued low share prices.
The French finance ministry said the shares were offered to institutional investors outside the United States for 49.15 euros a share. It said about 3 million shares would be offered to Renault employees at a later date. On the Paris bourse, Renault shares dropped slightly more than 1 percent, closing at 49.20 euros, after gaining almost 4 percent on Friday.
The auto industry, including Renault and its domestic rival Peugeot, have been among the great success stories of French business in recent years. In 1996, the government cut its stake in Renault to less than 50 percent, giving a free hand to Renault's chairman, Louis Schweitzer, to disengage Renault from government control, accelerate a reorganization and expand activities internationally. Three years later, Mr. Schweitzer engineered an equity swap with Nissan of Japan, giving Nissan a 15 percent stake in Renault and Renault a controlling 44.4 percent stake in Nissan.
The international thrust has, for the moment, paid off. Last week, Renault bucked a trend among many European automakers by reporting that its net income in the first half-year rose 32 percent, to 1.18 billion euros. But most of Renault's strength came from Nissan. Without Nissan, Renault said its operating income fell 36 percent from the year before.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); AIRLINES (84%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); CURRENCIES (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (60%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AUTOMOBILES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (85%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (85%); THALES SA (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ETUDE & DE CONSTRUCTION DE MOTEURS D'AVIATION (SNECMA) (61%); EURONEXT PARIS SA (60%); RENAULT FRANCE AUTOMOBILES (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); RENAULT SAS (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%) RENAULT SA 

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (85%); FTE (NYSE) (85%); FTE (BIT) (85%); RNO (PAR) (85%); RNO (BIT) (85%); HO (PAR) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (60%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (56%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



667 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs, Sugarcoated 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is difficult to fault recommendations to improve worker education and skills as a response to job losses caused by international competition ("New Economy," Business Day, July 28). 
 But the antiseptic terms used to describe layoffs are irritating, to say the least. Employers are "outsourcing jobs" and "freeing up" the labor force. Such euphemisms remind me of "rightsizing" instead of "downsizing," and "furloughing" workers instead of "laying them off." 
 These words make decisions with tremendous social and personal implications seem like nothing more than economic adjustments. Such workers have been "let go." It's as simple as that.

GARY CHAISON
Worcester, Mass., July 28, 2003

The writer is professor of industrial relations at the Graduate School of Management of Clark University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); NEW ECONOMY (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); OUTSOURCING (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: CHAISON, GARY (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



668 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: The Smoking Ban 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "What About the Right to Be Stupid?" (NYC column, July 25): 
 The city and state smoking bans may save the lives of restaurant and bar service people, but they are certainly wrecking their livelihoods. 
Customers who go outside to smoke and disrupt neighborhood streets soon tire of the exercise and go home early, or choose New Jersey next time. 
 If New York City really wanted nonsmoking bars and restaurants, there would have been lots of them a long time ago. Supply and demand has been replaced by the mayor's way or the highway. I hope that when the ban results in higher unemployment and lost tax revenue, the city won't come a-cryin'.

WILLIAM GRAVES
New York, July 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (91%); SMOKING BANS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) SMOKING AND TOBACCO; BARS; RESTAURANTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GRAVES, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



669 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Wedded to Poverty 

BYLINE:  By Michael Tanner; Michael Tanner, director of health and welfare studies at the Cato Institute, is author of "The Poverty of Welfare: Helping Others in Civil Society."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
There once was a time when conservatives believed in small government. Now that they control Congress and the White House, however, they have increasingly learned to live with big government as long as it serves their ideological ends.
 The latest example can be found lurking in the welfare reauthorization bill passed by the House and awaiting action by the Senate: a proposal to spend nearly $2 billion over the next six years to encourage people to marry. States receiving their shares of this money would have to establish services to "encourage the formation and maintenance of healthy two-parent married families." Single people on welfare who marry might even get cash bonuses. 
 Now, marriage is a good thing. A substantial body of research shows that people who marry tend to benefit economically and in other ways, and that high marriage rates are good for society. But before embarking on a giant federal program to encourage marriage, we should consider whether the program will really help the people it is intended to reach: poor single mothers on welfare.
First, there is the question of whom these women are supposed to wed. The Harvard sociologist William Julius Wilson and others have shown that in high-poverty areas there are relatively few marriageable men. A study of census data by researchers at Princeton and Columbia found that more than a third of fathers of children born out of wedlock lacked a high school degree; 28 percent were unemployed; and 20 percent had incomes of less than $6,000 per year. Roughly 38 percent had criminal records. 
The truth is, many single mothers are single because they find their unemployed and undereducated potential partners to be unattractive marriage material. Do we really want to encourage them to marry unsuitable partners?
Second, the beneficial effects of marriage on low-income single mothers may be significantly smaller than for American women on the whole. Census data indicate that about half of such unwed mothers already live with their child's father. An additional third are romantically involved with the father, but live separately. In either case, the father can be presumed to be providing at least some support already, so any economic gains through marriage would probably be marginal.
In addition, promoting marriage among young women may have unintended negative consequences. Teenage mothers who marry are more likely that those who stay single to have a second child while still young. This makes them more likely to drop out of school and less likely to return for their education later. In addition, young people have far less stable marriages than those who put it off until they are older -- they are more likely to divorce and have a higher incidence of domestic violence.
Finally, defining the issue as one of marriage misses the real problem: out-of-wedlock births. It is meeting the needs of children, not being single, that helps keep these women in poverty. It would make more sense to focus on helping women delay childbearing until they have completed their educations, established themselves in the workplace and, presumably, married on their own. It seems unlikely the bill's $50 million a year for abstinence education will be of much help. 
Perhaps conservatives have grown so accustomed to lamenting an America in decline that they fail to realize that most people in our society, including 90 percent of women by the time they reach age 45, still choose to marry. There is no marriage crisis.
If liberals had introduced this costly big-government social experiment, conservatives would be outraged, and they would be right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); CENSUS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%) WELFARE (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MARRIAGES 

PERSON: TANNER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



670 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Are Mixed as Earnings Fail to Reassure Investors

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks sagged yesterday, but the technology-driven Nasdaq managed to close with a slim gain as investors digested a mixed batch of earnings reports and braced for important economic data due later this week.
 Northrop Grumman and Kellogg issued solid earnings reports. But the news from Air Products and Chemicals, the gas supplier, was not nearly as rosy. 
 While corporate America's second-quarter results have largely been coming in on target, they have not been stellar enough to satisfy investors looking for clear signs that corporate profits are set for a turnaround. 
"One of the reasons you can't bid this market higher is, for some of the earnings that have been coming up, the expectations were a little high," said Taai Izushima, head trader for Daiwa Securities America. "But it's not like we're being disappointed by them either, so it's not taking us any lower."
Nagging weakness in the bond market also had Wall Street on edge, as bond yields spiked to eight-month highs, fanning fears that higher borrowing costs could stifle an economic recovery.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 18.06 points, or 0.19 percent, to 9,266.51, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged down 2.16 points, or 0.22 percent, to 996.52. The Nasdaq composite index rose 4.66 points, or 0.27 percent, to 1,735.36.
Trading volume was modest, with 1.3 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange and 1.5 billion traded on Nasdaq.
American Express said its second-quarter earnings rose 11 percent as consumers spent more. It said the improving economy would help its full-year earnings exceed Wall Street expectations. The company's stock, among the 30 in the Dow average, slipped 59 cents, to $45.01.
AT&T was the Dow's biggest percentage gainer after Credit Suisse First Boston said it had raised its rating on the stock to outperform from neutral. Shares of AT&T surged 9 percent, or $1.79, to $22.20.
Xerox posted slightly lower quarterly profits but said improving equipment sales helped the results top most expectations. Xerox's chief executive said in a conference call that the company stood by its 2003 profit outlook. Its stock was up 44 cents, or 4 percent, at $11.17.
Northrop Grumman said second-quarter profits rose 14 percent, exceeding Wall Street forecasts. Its shares rose 6 percent, or $5.26, to $92.36.
Kellogg reported higher quarterly earnings and raised its full-year forecast, as it benefited from a shift toward higher-priced brands. Kellogg gained 77 cents, to $34.77.
But Air Products and Chemicals said its earnings were hurt by a charge for job cuts and plant closings. Its shares fell 79 cents, to $45.94.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices fell in New York yesterday, pushing 10-year note yields to the highest level since December, as the government said that it would borrow $230 billion in the third and fourth quarters to finance a growing budget deficit.
Government notes have tumbled, with 10-year notes coming off of their biggest two-week price decline since November 2001, amid signs the economy is strengthening.
By late in the day, the 10-year note lost 28/32, to a price of 94 23/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, climbed to 4.29 percent from 4.18 percent on Friday.
And the 30-year bond fell 11 6/32, to 10 29/32. Its yield jumped to 5.22 percent from 5.12 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.761	99.505	High Rate	0.945	0.980	Investment Rate	0.964	1.000	Low Rate	0.90%	0.95%	Median Rate	0.93%	0.96%	Total applied for	$36,421,973	$41,394,267	Accepted	$21,256,033	$22,950,492	Noncompetitive	$1,519,322	$1,157,493	

Both issues are dated July 31. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 30, and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 29, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since April. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAYOFFS (67%); CLOSINGS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AIR PRODUCTS & CHEMICALS INC (85%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (59%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

TICKER: APD (NYSE) (85%); AXP (NYSE) (59%); NOC (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (59%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (59%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



671 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- In Anchorage; 
Friendly Atmosphere and Fresh Seafood

BYLINE:  By MARK A. STEIN 

 BODY:
Oil and gas are crucial to Alaska's economy; oil revenue alone accounts for about 85 percent of the state budget, 8,400 jobs in the private sector, and many of the 4,300 state and 10,000 federal workers in Anchorage.
 Seafood is the state's biggest industry in terms of jobs, though, employing 33,000 Alaskans, mostly in or near Anchorage. Tourism is also important; it is the fastest-growing industry and second-largest source of private jobs after fishing. 
 Air cargo is gaining fast because of Alaska's position between the American East Coast and the north Asian economies of China and Japan. FedEx, Northwest Airlines, United Parcel Service and the Postal Service all have cargo hubs in Anchorage. 
Jo Ferreira, a FedEx executive in Memphis who travels often to Anchorage, described it as "a very business-friendly city" where hotel clerks and others "have a real positive can-do attitude" toward helping business travelers.

AIRPORT
The five-year expansion of TED STEVENS ANCHORAGE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, now expected to be completed in 2004, is creating minor inconveniences for passengers these days. Work to connect the new 11-acre, 9-gate concourse to the rest of the airport has disrupted foot traffic in the existing domestic terminal. Some escalators have been taken out of service and passengers must follow detours around construction to get to and from the parking garage. New baggage screening procedures are also causing delays, airport officials said.
Still, said Lynne Mendelson, president and chief executive of Multiple Technologies, a computer services company in Seattle that is expanding in Anchorage, "It's a small airport, and pretty easy to navigate."
The airport is also rebuilding its main runway, and will use a secondary runway until construction is completed at the end of September. Airport officials said arrival and departure schedules should not change significantly.
The airport is close to downtown. A cab ride costs about $12 one way.

HOTELS
The HOTEL CAPTAIN COOK (907-276-6000; $245 to $625 in summer and $135 to $245 in winter) has 14 meeting rooms, separate health clubs for men and women, and a computer-equipped business center. Best of all, it has the Crow's Nest restaurant on the 17th floor, with views of Cook Inlet and the Chugach and Alaska mountain ranges.
Also downtown is the HILTON ANCHORAGE (907-272-7411; $199 to $224). Ms. Ferreira said that she liked the recent renovation and that the sports bar was a good place to meet colleagues and customers. The hotel also offers rooms with their own treadmills.

RESTAURANTS
ORSO RISTORANTE (907-222-3232, $125 for dinner for two, including wine and tip) has fresh Alaskan halibut and king crab legs as well as steaks and chops.
Next door on Fifth Street is the GLACIER BREWHOUSE (907-274-2739, $110), a fine restaurant masquerading as a pub. Like Orso, it features Alaskan seafood and offers specialties like a seafood mixed grill of salmon, halibut, shrimp and scallops seasoned with Jamaican spices and served with coconut rice.
Nearby is SIMON AND SEAFORT'S (907-274-3502, $120), which has spectacular views of Cook Inlet. Reservations are a must.

ENTERTAINMENT
HUMPY'S GREAT ALASKAN ALE HOUSE (907-276-2337), named for the humpback salmon, has 40 different kinds of beer on tap and serves food, but is most often cited by business travelers as a lively music club that features good local bands.
The piano bar at SULLIVAN'S STEAKHOUSE (907-258-2882) draws an enthusiastic crowd.

ON YOUR OWN
Two local military bases have golf courses that are open to the public and rent clubs. The EAGLEGLEN GOLF COURSE(907-552-3821) is on Elmendorf Air Force Base. The MOOSE RUN GOLF COURSE (907-428-0056) on Fort Richardson Army Base has two 18-hole courses. In the summer at this latitude, the sun stays up long enough to play at midnight.
Among the companies offering visits to nearby glaciers are SEE ALASKA TOURS (907-349-3092) and PHILLIP'S CRUISES AND TOURS (907-276-8023).
Ms. Ferreira recommends that visitors rent a car and drive themselves. "One of my favorite things is to get in the car and go," she said. "You can see more beautiful scenery in a very short time than almost anyplace else. Even in the off seasons it is unbelievable."

BUSINESS LORE
The airport construction project was supposed to cost $230 million and be completed a year ago. But it has been delayed by changes requested by the airlines and demanded by city building inspectors to meet earthquake-resistant standards. (Alaska was the site of the most powerful temblor ever recorded in North America, a magnitude 9.2 quake in 1964.) The project is now estimated to cost $524.5 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anchorage, Alaska's largest city, is on Cook Inlet with the Chugach Mountains to the east. (Photo by Frank Flavin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (72%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (69%); POSTAL SERVICE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); DRINKING PLACES (65%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (64%); MOUNTAINS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (66%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (66%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); CROW'S NEST MUSIC (52%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (52%)

PERSON: STEIN, MARK A 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (99%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (99%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (72%) ANCHORAGE (ALASKA); ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



672 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
California Bond Prices Reflect State's Turmoil

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
California may need more support than it now has from municipal bond portfolio managers if it is going to sell bonds at a reasonable price to bridge its budget gap.
 Even though the state appears to be temporarily stabilizing a fiscal squeeze, some money managers said that they were decidedly unimpressed by the state Senate's passage of a compromise budget on Sunday. 
 The opinion of bond fund managers is important because California aims to sell bonds valued at $14 billion to bridge most of its two-year budget gap of $38 billion. If many money managers remain indifferent about taking a risk on California, the state will have to pay higher rates to attract investors, raising its long-term costs and possibly adding to future budget difficulties. 
Mark McCray, municipal bond portfolio manager at Pimco, the big mutual fund company that manages about $10 billion in municipal bonds and about $2 billion from California, is among the bond managers who has reduced his holdings of California general obligation bonds since last fall and are not yet in a buying frame of mind.
"I don't have the appetite right now," he said. Though Mr. McCray said he had anticipated the credit downgrading last week for the state -- to near junk bond status by Standard & Poor's -- he does not think that prices have fallen enough. 
"I'll believe a budget when it is passed, and then I will have to read it," Mr. McCray said, referring to the fact that the Assembly and the governor have yet to approve the budget. "I am still worried about the structural deficit," he added, noting that the state will face an $8 billion deficit next July under the compromise budget.
Then there is the recall election in October. The current governor, Gray Davis, could be ousted and succeeded by someone untested or unknown, a development that Mr. McCray said could happen only in "the land of the absurd."
Though some money managers said they had spotted attractive yields in California, several other managers remain skeptics like Mr. McCray. 
Dino Mallas, the portfolio manager of the $250 million T. Rowe Price California Tax-Exempt Bond Fund, said that he had cut his exposure to California general obligation bonds below that of many of his peers and to half of the 3.1 percent used in a key market benchmark, the Lehman Brothers Municipal Bond Index.
To satisfy their mandate, California mutual funds can buy other California bonds, including those of local governments, utilities, schools, and water and sewer districts.
The prices of the state's general obligation bonds have fallen so much that the yields, which move in the opposite direction, are becoming relatively more attractive.
Mr. Mallas said he would take notice if the spread, or difference, between the yield on California general obligation bonds and the Thomson Financial Municipal Market Data triple-A yield widened to a full percentage point. It came close to that point last week for five-year securities.
Absent further credit deterioration, such a spread "is certainly attractive; it is compelling," Mr. Mallas said. As of yesterday, though, the spread had narrowed to 79 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, on five-year bonds.
Some big names in the municipal bond market with a taste for California say that they cannot pass up the opportunity. Compared with other municipal bonds, the California bonds have the highest yields since Thomson Financial began collecting data in the early 1990's.
"It is an opportunity to buy a good credit," said Rafael Costas, co-director of the municipal bond department at Franklin Templeton Investments.
William M. Fitzgerald, head of fixed-income investing at Nuveen Investments in Chicago, agreed. "In our judgment, given what we know today, we are interested in continuing to buy California general obligation bonds," he said.
According to Thomson Financial, California general obligation bonds are paying tax-exempt yields of 3.38 percent a year on bonds with a 5-year maturity and 5.42 percent on bonds with a 20-year maturity, as of yesterday. That five-year yield is 79 basis points greater than the Thomson Financial Triple-A scale, while the 20-year yield is 71 basis points greater.
Those spreads are twice the level they were on these bonds during the recession of the early 1990's and the Orange County financial crisis in 1994 and 1995. Last September the spreads were about 3 basis points for the 5-year bond and 19 basis points for the 20-year bond.
Mr. Costas said that Franklin Templeton's California Tax-Free Income Fund, which has $14 billion in assets, had recently increased its holdings of California general obligation bonds to 4.7 percent of its total, just under the 5 percent limit for any one security.
"You buy them when they are cheap, not when they are expensive," he said, referring to the recent low prices in comparison to other municipal bonds.
Mr. Fitzgerald of Nuveen, which owns about $8 billion of bonds from California, said he had cut his exposure to California state bonds sharply. Then in June he decided to take "a moderate position" in Nuveen's California funds and smaller positions in its national municipal funds.
"We are long-term investors," he said, "and we are looking at spreads at nearly twice what they have been."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); BOND FUNDS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (62%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); MUNICIPAL MARKET DATA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



673 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: TUNNEL VISION; 
He Was Custer's Bugler. Then, the Subway Called.

BYLINE:  By Randy Kennedy

 BODY:
The Cypress Hills National Cemetery in Brooklyn is the final resting place of several long-dead luminaries, among them a few Medal of Honor winners and a Fiji cannibal chief named Vendovi, who was said to have eaten up to a dozen American sailors before his capture.
 But undoubtedly the cemetery's oddest historical attraction can be found off by himself, at grave No. 8865, in a section few people visit anymore, where squirrels leap from headstone to headstone. 
 Here lies John Martin, arguably the most fascinating subway employee who ever lived.
Of course, there is nothing to that effect carved into his pale grave marker. In fact, until the early 1990's, no one visiting the grave would have known any more than these unremarkable facts: "Italy. Sgt. 90 Coast Artillery. Dec. 24, 1922." 
But then a group of professional and amateur historians put up a granite headstone that provided a more pertinent detail about Mr. Martin's life:
"Carried Gen. Custer's last message, Battle of Little Big Horn, June 25, 1876."
In other words, while dozens claimed to have been the last survivors of that lopsided fight, Mr. Martin, a bugler, was actually one of the lucky few. On that deadly day in Montana, as the bullets began to fly, he rode away with orders for the reinforcements that came too late.
His route from the Seventh Cavalry to the New York City subway to the subject of this column came about in a way almost as circuitous as his life itself.
During an interview a few weeks ago, the jazz trumpeter Randy Sandke -- his "Subway Ballet" made its debut last month -- mentioned that he had read about a bugler for Custer who later ended up working in the subway.
It sounded beautifully far-fetched, like all great historical fiction, a crazy New York twist on Thomas Berger's "Little Big Man." But it being summer and practically the 127th anniversary of the battle, it seemed as good a time as any to unravel a historical thread. And so the search for John Martin, subway worker extraordinaire, began.
It led first to the Brooklyn Public Library and the archives of The Brooklyn Eagle, which picks up the story of Mr. Martin about 1908 and establishes that even before he ended up at Custer's side, he had already lived the equivalent of a couple of lives.
He had been born Giovanni Martini, possibly in Sala, Italy, and as a teenager had been a drummer boy for Garibaldi before deciding to decamp for America.
As it turned out, it was not the best time to come: he arrived in Brooklyn during a severe national recession and had little choice but to enlist, according to William F. Walbesser, a former New York State police officer and amateur historical sleuth who has blazed the Martin trail.
At some point he appears to have rejoined the Seventh Cavalry and, as if he had not tempted fate enough, served in Cuba during the Spanish-American War. Then later, some say because he missed hearing the Italian spoken back in Brooklyn, he apparently left his wife and three small children at Fort McHenry in Baltimore and rented a furnished room at 168 Prospect Street, in the neighborhood now known as Dumbo.
By 1908, according to The Eagle, the police had managed to track him down at Mrs. Martin's behest. "Martin said that he had no feeling against his wife," a reporter wrote, "and he seemed to be really pleased to hear that she was alive and well." But he said that she had run him off and he told the reporter that marital relations were beyond repair.
"He was not going back to her, he said, and that was the end of it," the reporter added.
It was at some point in this phase of Mr. Martin's life that he bridged two remarkable historical eras, taking a job with the then brand-new New York City subway and exchanging his cavalry uniform for that of ticket-chopper at the 103rd Street station on the Upper West Side. (Before turnstiles, subway rides required a ticket, which was then chopped, or shredded, upon entry.)
Lost to history, maybe forever, is the answer to the question of whether Mr. Martin was any good as a subway worker. Some idea of his income can be gleaned from the fact that he regularly earned extra money in these years by appearing in New York stage productions, often playing bugle calls between acts or telling war stories.
Did he relish playing a bit part in the birth of modern New York? If so, he apparently did not care to relish it for long. As his small fame began to grow, he readily traded in his subway job for a better one atthe Brooklyn Navy Yard, where he spent the rest of his working days.
John Martin's sturdy luck finally ran out one December on a Brooklyn street: he was run down by a beer truck and succumbed a few days later to his injuries, finally joining, as one sign at the Cypress Hills cemetery eloquently puts it, "the bivouac of the dead."
"It's a pretty colorful story, isn't it?" said Robert W. Tilley, an amateur historian. "Here he is riding across the Old West. And then there he is, down in the subway."

E-mail: transit@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Martin's grave at Cypress Hills National Cemetery in Brooklyn. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMETERIES (91%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (87%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HISTORY (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (64%); JAZZ & BLUES (64%); LIBRARIES (62%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



674 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Rochester Journal; 
Short of Financing, Bookmobiles Are Sputtering to the Curb

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, July 28 

 BODY:
Early in the last century, a light novel about the romantic escapades of a traveling bookseller called "Parnassus on Wheels" so captivated Fred W. Hill, a gentleman farmer and teacher in this part of western New York, that he started a campaign for what became the state's first bookmobile. 
 For 80 years, bookmobiles -- the first one bearing the title of the inspiring 1915 tale by Christopher Morley -- made their way in and around Rochester, often providing the only source of books for homebound, elderly, poor, rural and young readers. But this month, library officials, unable to find enough money to keep the county's last bookmobile operating, parked it in a corner lot and consoled themselves with cake and fond remembrances. 
 "The kids would come up, grab hold of me around my knees and say, 'Mr. Library Man, read to me, read to me,' and that was cool," said Larry Naukam, a bookmobile librarian and head of the Extension Outreach Program, whose staff of eight has been trimmed to two after budget cuts. 
Bookmobile programs, while staging a comeback in some American cities, are sputtering in the struggling cities and towns of upstate New York. Syracuse discontinued its bookmobile service in the late 1990's after financial cutbacks, and Buffalo's is currently under evaluation. "There's nothing to say we're not going to have units, but we are studying them," said Sharon Holley, an administrator in Buffalo. 
The joint Rochester and Monroe County public library system depends on New York State and Monroe County for much of its revenue, said its interim director, Carole Joyce. When Monroe County cut library financing this year by 12.2 percent to $6.6 million, and a $220,000 state grant was not renewed, the bookmobile program was canceled. "This is the fourth year we've had to make cuts, andthere was nothing left," Ms. Joyce said. "We're just trying to keep our doors open and lights on." 
County officials said they had little choice. "In 2003, we cut every single department that we fund, including the library," said Suzanne Kennedy, the Monroe County budget director. 
Assemblywoman Susan John, a Democrat of Rochester, said that money that had been available in last year's budget had been frozen this year. "But I haven't given up hope," Ms. John said. "It's critically important for the people who can't get to the library." 
The bookmobile concept dates to the early 1900's, when Kentucky had book-delivery services on horseback, said John Philip, a consultant to libraries nationally. Soon motorized book delivery began appearing in many rural areas and small cities. In 1923, Dayton, Ohio, became the first large urban area to begin a bookmobile service, followed quickly by Rochester. 
Over time, a bookmobile parked in a city neighborhood or bumping down a country road evoked not only the opportunity to escape, explore and be entertained, but also the emotions associated with a visit from a friend. 
Fred W. Hill, the man who campaigned for Rochester's first bookmobile, used it to instill in his family the value of education, said his grandson, Fred Hill Webster, 58, a funeral home director. And Fred W. Hill's two daughters, Esther and Marguerite, worked on the bookmobile as young women and later became teachers. 
"My grandfather was big on education," said Mr. Webster (whose mother is Marguerite), who added that he is the only one in his family who finds it difficult to sit still long enough to read a book. 
As more Americans bought cars, a trip to the library became easier. In the 1970's, the number of bookmobiles in the United States reached a peak of 1,000, according to Mr. Philip, then began falling. Today, 879 are still on the road, he said. 
"The tendency is for suburbanites to think they don't need bookmobiles because everybody has cars, everybody drives," Mr. Philip said. This ignores "the inner city and the people who don't drive, like the number of people who are becoming aged," he added, saying "I'm one of those people who's becoming elderly." 
He also said that bookmobile patrons are geographically scattered and often overwhelmed by their circumstances, making them unable to lobby loudly enough to save the bookmobiles. By comparison, he said, "if someone were to close a branch library, it would be political suicide." 
In recent years, some bookmobiles added computers, while others began focusing on specific groups, Mr. Philip said. He also recalled a bookmobile program for the unemployed that was not successful. But in Pennsylvania, bookmobiles have found a great audience in the Amish countryside. 
Many bookmobiles, including Rochester's, looked to patrons among the very young and very old. At its end, the last bookmobile here made 54 regular stops, almost all in elderly communities and day care centers. 
"They used to be waiting outside for it," said Roslyn Weiman, 85, a resident of a retirement community in Brighton, a suburb of Rochester, who gathered several hundred signatures on a petition when the bookmobile was threatened last year. "It was a terrible shock" when the bookmobile was canceled, she said. 
Fortunately for Ms. Weiman, she still drives. She now visits the library about once a week, bringing back romance novels -- she said she found them by their colorful covers -- and other books for her friends who are homebound. "I tried to find things for them, but I don't know how much longer I can do it," she said. "It's not that easy." 
Some cities have been able to come up with a happy ending. After phasing out bookmobiles in times of economic difficulty, Dallas, Chicago and Detroit are now working to reinstate them. "By no means is the bookmobile dying," Mr. Philip said with admitted optimism. "It's alive and well." 
The Rochester library has decided to keep its bookmobile parked for the next six months, hoping somebody or something will save it. "If we sell it right away," Ms. Joyce said, "we'll never get it back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Surrounded by the Rochester bookmobile's empty shelves, Larry Naukam, of the city's public library, and Roslyn Weiman, of Brighton, N.Y., talk about what will become of it. The library is seeking more money. (Photo by Chris Rank for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (87%); BOOKSTORES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



675 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: A Warning Shot to Banks On Role in Others' Fraud 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Enron lied to investors about its financial condition, but it could not have done so without active help from its friendly bankers. And that help constituted fraud.
 That was the conclusion reached by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Manhattan district attorney as they disclosed settlements yesterday with two of the nation's largest financial institutions, J. P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup. 
"If you know," said Stephen Cutler, the S.E.C.'s enforcement director, that "you are helping a company mislead its investors, then you are in violation of securities laws." 
That is not the way financial institutions have seen it in the past. "Our view historically," wrote Marc J. Shapiro, vice chairman of J. P. Morgan Chase in a letter to Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, "was that our clients and their accountants were responsible for the clients' proper accounting and disclosure of the transactions." Now, he said, his bank will "hold ourselves to a higher standard."
The settlements do not create precedents to the extent they would had the cases been litigated, but they serve notice on banks and other financial institutions that they will face major legal difficulties if they are caught engaging in transactions similar to the ones that Citigroup and J. P. Morgan did with Enron before that company went broke.
It is clear that both banks knew quite well that they were entering into transactions with Enron that were in reality loans for hundreds of millions, and even billions, of dollars. But they were structured in convoluted ways to allow Enron to report them not as loans -- which would have shown the company to be deeper in debt than it wanted to appear -- but as other kinds of liabilities related to its trading activities.
In some cases, Enron even found ways to account for borrowed money as providing cash flow from operations, thus making it look like the company was making money that it was not. In one case, it borrowed money from Citigroup and bought Treasury bills, which it immediately sold. It claimed the proceeds of the sale increased operating cash flow by $500 million.
The two banks thus had superior knowledge over other Enron creditors because they knew Enron's financial picture was not as good as it appeared. But that information did not do them much good -- they ended up as Enron's two largest creditors when it filed for bankruptcy in December 2001 -- in part because each did not understand that Enron had other partners in deception, and thus did not know the total amount of hidden debt.
Weeks before Enron filed for bankruptcy, it disclosed many loans that it had previously hidden. When one J. P. Morgan executive expressed shock at the amounts involved, his colleague reponded: "Shutup and delete this email." 
Citigroup may have had a slightly better understanding than J. P. Morgan of what was going on, or maybe it was just more averse to taking on large risks. It unloaded some of its disguised loans to Enron through bonds sold to institutional investors, largely pension funds, which suffered losses when Enron collapsed.
The deals at the heart of yesterday's case created little in the way of dubious reported income for Enron; the company did that through other transactions that produced paper profits without producing operating cash flow. These deals provided cash flow to reduce the gap -- closely watched by some investors -- between reported profits and cash flow.
After Enron collapsed, Citigroup realized far earlier than J. P. Morgan that what it had done looked bad. It was more cooperative with investigators, and that is one reason it got off with a lighter punishment. The S.E.C. agreed to fine Citigroup in an administrative proceeding, in which the company accepted a "cease and desist" order. J. P. Morgan, on the other hand, faced a civil suit filed by the S.E.C. in federal court, and had to accept an injunction barring it from future violations of securities laws.
In some of the transactions at issue, it was at least arguable that Enron's accounting was permissible under generally accepted accounting principles, particularly if one looked at each separate transaction rather than at the entire structure of related transactions. The banks knew what was going on, but they comforted themselves by saying that was not their business.
J. P. Morgan may have gone further. It signed letters, which the S.E.C. and Mr. Morgenthau say were deceptive, in an effort to persuade Enron's auditors that the accounting was proper. Even after investigations began, Mr. Morgenthau said, J. P. Morgan insisted that one company it had created, called Mahonia, was independent of the bank despite substantial evidence to the contrary. Mahonia, Mr. Morgenthau noted, was able to engage in billions of dollars of transactions even though its nominal capitalization totaled 10 British pounds, or about $16.
Now both Citigroup and Morgan Chase promise that they will not engage in similar transactions in the future unless the borrower makes complete disclosure. That would defeat the purpose of such structures. Presumably other major financial institutions will be similarly reluctant, knowing both of yesterday's settlements and of a decision last December by a federal judge in Houston that allowed private suits filed by investors to proceed against financial institutions.
What is not clear is just how far this new candor will extend. Many derivative transactions aredesigned in large part to produce either financial results or tax results different from a straightforward -- but economically identical -- transaction that does not include derivatives. Others are designed to get around regulations affecting particular industries, by enabling a bank, for example, to get the economic benefits of owning stock in a certain company even though it is not allowed to buy such shares.
If banks and other financial institutions were required to certify that regulators and tax officials were informed of the purpose of such transactions, that could severely depress the market for many such derivatives. But the S.E.C.'s mandate does not extend that far.
For Citigroup and J. P. Morgan, yesterday's settlements are far from the end of their exposure to Enron. They still face the suits filed by investors. In addition, Neal Batson, Enron's bankruptcy examiner, concluded in a report released yesterday that "there is sufficient evidence of inequitable conduct" by six financial institutions, including Citigroup and J. P. Morgan, to allow a bankruptcy judge to push their claims down in priority when the Enron bankruptcy case is settled.
That would mean the financial institutions, which also include Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank, Barclays and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, would recover less of their $5 billion in claims, leaving more for other creditors.
Making that case would not be easy, however, said Lynn M. LoPucki, a law professor at the University of California at Los Angeles. He said that creditors arguing for such a course would have to take on the substantial cost of trying to prove the case that the S.E.C. made yesterday but was not required to prove because the banks reached settlements.
Mr. Morgenthau, the district attorney, said in an interview that he thought "it would be appropriate" for the banks to suffer in the bankruptcy case, given their role in Enron's deception.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Harold Degenhardt, Linda Chatman Thomsen and Stephen M. Cutler, all Securities and Exchange Commission officials, and Robert Morgenthau, the district attorney in Manhattan, disclosed settlements with two banks that aided Enron. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); ETHICS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); CASH FLOW (68%) ETHICS; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%) ENRON CORP; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO; CITIGROUP INC; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



676 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Coveting Baghdad, If Airport Can Be Made Safe 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
While airlines are severely cutting service to cities in this time of industry crisis, many are jockeying to begin flights to one of the world's more unlikely destinations: Baghdad.
 More than 20 airlines, including British Airways, Lufthansa Airlines and Air France, have applied to fly into and out of Baghdad International Airport. KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has already listed the city in its reservations system, with flights set for four times a week beginning Sept. 1, provided it receives the necessary approval. 
 A quick call to a travel agent last week showed that fares for the first round-trip KLM flight from Amsterdam ranged from 990 euros, or about $1,140, in economy class, to 2,890 euros, or about $3,320, in business class -- hot meals and a movie included.
Relatively high fares are the least of a traveler's worries, though. Resistance fighters are still trying to shoot down planes approaching Baghdad International Airport with portable surface-to-air missiles. Land mines are being planted nightly on a main road leading to the airport, a senior insurance executive said. And daily guerrilla attacks are occurring on American and British convoys. 
The airlines say they do not want to start flights until their safety concerns have been allayed. But they also know that the Office of the Coalition Provisional Authority, the American administrative body based in Baghdad, will initially choose only a few airlines -- possibly just one -- to fly in the thousands of government officials, engineers, aid workers and others waiting to get their hands on a piece of Iraq. So the airlines are lobbying hard.
"We have representatives in Baghdad at this moment looking at all issues like safety, ground integrity, crew safety and handling facilities in general," said Bart Koster, a spokesman for KLM. "The authority has said they want to start regular air service as soon as possible. I assume they're in a bit of a hurry. But then again, they want to be assured that the airlines that have expressed interest can operate."
The sooner commercial air service can restart, the sooner the Bush administration can point to it as a sign that the conflict in Iraq is ebbing. Almost all airlines suspended service to Iraq in 1990 in the period leading up to the Persian Gulf war. On June 13 of this year, the Transportation Department gave permission to three airlines based in the United States -- Northwest, which is a partner of KLM, and two charter companies -- to fly to Iraq, though they still need approval from other federal agencies, including the Federal Aviation Administration and the provisional authority.
The Transportation Department, which grants permission for any United States carrier to fly to a foreign country, is reviewing applications from more than half a dozen other airlines. The three largest ones in this country -- American Airlines, United Airlines and Delta Air Lines -- already have flying rights that were granted before 1990, a department spokesman said.
The provisional authority put out a formal call for applications from airlines around the world on July 2, with a deadline of July 8. The 20 or so that applied are mostly from North American, Europe and the Middle East. On July 21, however,the authority sent out to airlines a finely chiseled piece of understatement: "At this time," it said, "we still anticipate opening Baghdad International at the earliest possible time, but a few localized issues prevent full commercial operations into the airport."
The authority also asked airlines whether they would be interested in starting commercial service to Basra, a city much closer to the border with Kuwait and generally considered more secure.
The provisional authority did not return repeated requests seeking comment for this article.
In the last month, most recently on July 16, guerillas have tried at least twice, unsuccessfully, to shoot down C-130 military cargo planes flying into the airport. They used surface-to-air missiles, the same kind of weapon that rebels in Sudan used to shoot down a commercial airliner in that country in 1986. Last year, such missiles were also fired unsuccessfully at an Israeli commercial jet in Kenya and at an American military plane in Saudi Arabia.
Gen. John P. Abizaid, commander of the allied forces in Iraq, recently told reporters that he was "terrified" as he flew in a C-130 that dropped flares and banked hard during a missile warning.
"It's a tough call," said Stephen Luckey, a former Northwest Airlines pilot who is the chief security officer for the Air Line Pilots Association and an adviser on airline security matters for several federal agencies. "But I think we can run a fairly safe operation in there."
Mr. Luckey said that federal officials and others had asked him to assess the risks involved in flying into Baghdad. As far as he knows, he said, a total of three dozen missiles have been fired at commercial planes, virtually all of them in various war zones.
Here is his advice: One, use planes with engines mounted under the wings, because those aircraft can still fly relatively well even if all but one of their engines are destroyed. Two, be flexible enough to vary the flight path on approach, because attackers with surface-to-air missiles can fire them accurately only if they know the flight path. Three, provide fighter jet escorts for commercial planes. Four, consider prohibiting American companies from flying into Baghdad in the early days, because attackers are more likely to aim at planes they think are from the United States.
In Afghanistan, it took six months to a year after the fall of Kabul in 2001 for noticeable commercial air service to resume, said Robert W. Mann, an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y. Pakistan International Airlines was one of the first carriers to fly into Kabul, he said, as were several European charter operations. 
Ariana Afghan Airlines was eventually revived, and it now serves cities in the region with Boeing 727's and Europe with a single Airbus jet. A couple of commercial European airlines have flown into Kabul sporadically, Mr. Mann said.
Howard Menaker, a spokesman for Bechtel, the contractor that now has 110 workers in Iraq, said that the company would consider putting employees on commercial flights if they were available. Bechtel's workers currently fly in on military planes or drive in from Kuwait.
Citing competitive reasons, Mr. Koster declined to say how many travelers had booked seats on KLM's flights. But Terry Trippler, of cheapseats.com, an air fare Web Site, said last week that economy class was entirely sold out on the Sept. 1 flight, and business class had only three seats left, though flights later in the week looked fairly open.
Some airlines have backed away from their initial enthusiasm to fly to Iraq.In April, Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways, said that he wanted to start service from London as soon as possible. On May 1, his company operated a humanitarian aid flight into Basra. But last week, Virgin said that it had not applied for flights with the provisional authority.
"With the security situation there at the moment, we don't believe there will be commercial flights on a scheduled basis going in for a while yet," said Paul Moore, a Virgin spokesman.
Mr. Koster of KLM acknowledged the uncertainties involved and said the airline would give travelers their money back if its plans did not gel. "Every passenger who books," he said, "knows he's taking a risk the flight might not be operated."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi workers at Baghdad International Airport this month. More than 20 airlines have applied to fly into and out of the airport, hoping for new business in spite of the danger of attacks from resistance fighters. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); DESERT STORM (86%); LOBBYING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); LANDMINES (72%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TERRORISM (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BAGHDAD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; AIRPORTS; PERSIAN GULF WAR; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; MINES, EXPLOSIVE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (90%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); GULF STATES (73%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



677 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: With Sun on Roof, More Yen in the Pocket 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: YOSHIKAWA, Japan 

 BODY:
Yoshiko Takahashi is no environmental activist, but in the last year she has become an ardent fan of the solar panels that generate most of the electricity for her 1,100-square-foot home. Using solar power, which was included with the new house that she and her husband bought a little more than a year ago, has not only cut the family's electricity bill by 17 percent but also made her feel good about helping fight global warming.
 "We feel our roof panels are contributing to a great cause," she said, her 7-year-old daughter at her side. "And it's better to use the sunshine right above your head than depend on the electric company." 
 Mrs. Takahashi is among 70 families who live in this compact neighborhood, the largest collection of solar-powered homes in Japan. The success of the development is part of the reason Japan has become the world's largest market for solar energy. Indeed, the builder, Hakushin, is constructing another complex, of 87 homes, nearby. 
Japan is almost completely dependent on imported fuel, which makes its prices for electricity among the highest in the world. In response, the Japanese have worked for a decade to build up their renewable energy resources, and the effort is starting to pay off.
Japan now generates half the world's solar power, and the market here for solar technology is expected to grow fivefold, to about $4 billion by the end of the decade, according to the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association.
The government is also pushing to meet targets for reducing greenhouse gases, as set out in the Kyoto Protocol nearly six years ago. The Bush administration remains opposed to committing the United States to its goals, but Japan, as the host of the conference, is eager to honor its agreements.
Japanese lawmakers and officials support alternative energy as a good homegrown business that can help cut energy costs; they also see it as a potentially strong export industry.
To promote the use of solar power, the government funnels about three billion yen a year -- more than $25 million at current exchange rates -- to help companies develop more efficient solar technology. And since 1994, it has spent 116 billion yen ($971 million) on rebates for consumers who install photovoltaic panels on their roofs.
With the demand expanding, Japan has overtaken the United States as the world's leading producer of solar panels. By 2010, the government wants solar power generation to be sharply increased, to 4.82 million kilowatts, 40 percent more than experts expect Americans to generate by then. To reach that target, one million homes will have to be outfitted with solar panels -- eight times more than now use solar power.
Reaching these goals is far from assured. The makers of solar panels face competition from generators of wind power and other clean energy sources. Though solar panels are suited for homes and small buildings, wind power generates energy for as little as 20 percent the cost of photovoltaic panels. Some Americans oppose windmills as a blot on the landscape, but Japanese seem less concerned. Wind farms increasingly dot rural districts.
Crucially, though, the government, burdened by budget deficits, is trying to phase out subsidy programs, which have typically covered one-third of the cost of panels for home use. The subsidies paid per kilowatt of installed solar-panel power have been gradually reduced and are to run out in two years.
Unless manufacturers lower their prices to make up for the lost subsidies, consumers may turn against solar energy, which requires an initial investment of about 2.25 million yen ($18,845), or 25 percent more than what Americans pay.
Some of the subsidies to be lost from Tokyo will be offset by grants from more than 200 local governments. But these programs vary widely. In Kobe, for instance, new schools and hospitals are being outfitted with solar panels so they can keep operating during an earthquake or other disaster. In other districts, few programs exist.
The government is removing another big incentive by deregulating the country's electricity market. To reduce the cost of doing business in Japan, it is allowing companies to generate their own power -- a business that has been dominated for half a century by 10 regional utilities. Growing competition has forced the utilities to lower their prices, even if slowly, reducing the need for households to generate their own power.
"Japan's energy policy is now at a turning point," said Toshihiko Nakata, a professor of science and technology management at Tohoku University. "If there are no subsidies, consumers won't buy solar panels. And as the government deregulates the utilities, electricity prices will come down, so it will take longer for consumers to recoup the cost of installing the panels."
But solar energy prices are falling, too, which is expected to help the industry fight back. The cost of residential solar power systems has dropped by about 80 percent in the last decade, to around $6,000 for each kilowatt of generating capacity. Most solar homes install three kilowatts of capacity, enough to meet half their total power needs.
A big reason for the lower prices lies in cheaper inverters -- which help turn solar energy into electricity -- as well as other machinery. Installation costs have also dipped as the market has increased for home use of solar energy. The cost of the solar panels themselves is declining more slowly and now accounts for two-thirds of the systems' total price.
Manufacturers, Mr. Nakata and others say, have been taking advantage of the public's forbearance, cutting panel prices only as fast as the government has reduced rebates.
Part of the problem is that the manufacturers have had to compete with semiconductor makers for the silicon used to produce solar cells. Prices shot up in the technology boom of the 1990's, and solar cell manufacturers had to pay top dollar for what supplies they could get. 
But since the technology bubble burst, supplies of silicon have been ample and prices have fallen. Now, the material bottleneck is the specialized glass that houses the cells; most of it must be imported.
As in many other industries, Japanese companies have worked continually to improve their technology. Sharp has developed panels that can convert 17.4 percent of the sunlight that hits them into electricity, the best in the industry so far. Sanyo, which uses different technology, says its cells can generate more electricity at higher temperatures, and require less energy to produce. 
Japanese makers also produce solar cells that are less than an inch thick, making them lighter, easier to install and less obtrusive in appearance. Mrs. Takahashi's roof, built at a 30.9-degree incline to capture as much light as possible, has horizontal ridges running across it to separate the 80 solar panels, but little else to distinguish it.
The inverters and other machinery take up little space inside the house and require no maintenance. By making solar energy consumer-friendly, the companies have helped turn a niche product for the environmentally sensitive into something akin to a high-end household gadget.
The companies are also getting a boost from those consumers who are rushing to buy solar power systems before the government subsidies run out. Sharp, the leading manufacturer with 19 percent of the world market, has doubled production in the last year, and Sanyo will double its output next year with a new factory. Kyocera plans to expand production by one-third this year.
The solar cell makers are also finding allies in the depressed construction industry. With Japan's economy struggling and the population aging, starts of new homes have fallen to near 20-year lows. To revive sales, builders are cutting their prices for photovoltaic panels and roofing material as much as 25 percent.
"PV homes are selling well because a lot of people are concerned about the environment, and housewives are especially concerned about reducing their electricity bills," said Rie Abe, a saleswoman at Hakushin, the builder.
Though Japan's market is growing, manufacturers are now also starting to look overseas. Sharp has begun making cells in Memphis, and Sanyo assembles solar panels in Monterrey, Mexico. Kyocera will begin making solar modules in China in October.
Demand overseas has been spotty. Among the Europeans, Germany is promoting solar energy the most aggressively. In 2001, the European Parliament passed a law to promote renewable energy, but left each country to draw up its own targets.
Demand in the United States seems even less predictable. In 1997, President Bill Clinton introduced a program to install one million residential solar power systems by 2010. But the subsidies that are needed to compete with relatively cheap fuels are uneven. California has the most generous program; other states offer few, if any incentives.
In Japan, Hakushin is not the only home builder cashing in on solar power. Misawa Homes is building a 500-home solar town in Sapporo, on the northern island of Hokkaido. Eight hundred or so solar homes are being built in Gunma prefecture, north of Tokyo.
These homes appeal to the feel-good environmental streak found more and more in Japan. Hakushin says that the homes in its first solar village save the equivalent of 14,500 gallons of fuel and 154 tons of carbon dioxide emissions each year, compared with conventional houses.
But the more immediate concern for most homeowners is saving money. Around the corner from Mrs. Takahashi's house, Hiroko Ohara happily discusses the solar effect on her household budget.
When she, her husband and son lived in a Tokyo apartment, the family paid 16,000 yen ($135) a month for electricity. Now, their bill has fallen by half and they receive about 2,000 yen from Tokyo Electric Power in return for the surplus electricity they generate. This is because most homes have no batteries to store their electricity, so any power that exceeds the family's immediate needs is routed to the electric company.
"I'm happy," Mrs. Ohara said, "when I see that it will be sunny on the weather report."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Houses in a complex of solar-powered residences in Yoshikawa, near Tokyo, the largest such community in Japan. With the price of imported fuels high, the demand for sustainable energy is increasing. (Photo by Fuminori Sato for The New York Times) Graphs: "With Government Support . . ."Graph tracks Applicants for Japanese government subsidies for solar systems since 1994. ". . . Production of Solar Panels Has Increased"Graph tracks Annual capacity of solar panels in Japan since 1994. (Sources by New Energy Foundation; Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (96%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ROOFING MATERIALS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); FAMILY (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); WIND ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SOLAR ENERGY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) JAPAN; YOSHIKAWA (JAPAN)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



678 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: Tide of China's Migrants: Flowing to Boom, or Bust? 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: YIWU, China 

 BODY:
Jin Xiaoqin epitomizes all that is going right in China. 
 Through 15 years of hard work and keen attention to the fickle global market for trinkets, she and her husband have climbed from street peddling to owning a plastics factory with 50 workers, all migrants from poorer regions. 
 This year, their hottest products are painted figurines of Jesus and Mary, sold to buyers from the United States and South Korea.
"The glow-in-the dark statues sell pretty well, but not as well as the painted ones," Ms. Jin noted, perusing her display in Yiwu city's vast wholesale market for small goods of every kind. 
Her trajectory is multiplied by the thousands in Yiwu, perhaps the most sizzling city in the zooming province of Zhejiang, in China's southeast. With no obvious geographical advantage, Yiwu has within two decades grown into a metropolis with skyscrapers, an airport, a new glass and steel exhibition center and acres of industrial parks and housing estates now under construction. Enough Arabic dealers live in Yiwu year-round to support several Middle Eastern restaurants, including one with belly dancers, and a mosque.
Two hundred miles to the interior is Caijiacun, a broken farm village that functions mainly as a source of workers for Yiwu and other boomtowns. Caijiacun epitomizes the rural stagnation that could be China's most intractable problem.
"We pretty much lead a hand-to-mouth existence," said Cai Songquan, whose 24-year-old son, like most everyone else in the Jiangxi Province countryside who is young and able, left home while in his teens. 
Linking these disparate worlds are the migrant workers, more than 100 million nationwide, men and women from China's interior. 
They travel for work because they have no alternatives and because they dream of better days. In factories large and small, foreign-owned and domestic, they assemble computer parts or shoes or, as Mr. Cai's son diduntil he was laid off a few weeks ago from a factory in Yiwu, toys.
The migrants face numbingly low wages as they scramble to save for marriage and a home and, in their wildest dreams, a little shop back home. A clever and lucky few gain skills that help start them up the modern economy, on a long ladder.
The fate of migrants like Mr. Cai's son, along with that of relatives in the villages who increasingly depend on money sent home, is one of China's biggest unknowns.
Will large numbers of migrants, like those elsewhere, climb to lives of reliable earnings and respect, perhaps even seeing a child or grandchild make it to college? Or will many remain on a virtual treadmill, as the son, Cai Gaoxiang, feels he has been over the last year, watching as the meager pay for his labor has actually declined? 
On such issues may hinge whether China hardens into extremes of wealth and poverty, as some fear today, or emerges as the middle-class country that everyone hopes for. 
A tour from booming Zhejiang to the interconnected villages of Jiangxi provides evidence on both futures.

The Boom
Trinket Supplier To the World
"Build the World's Biggest Supermarket, Construct an International Shopping Heaven!" reads the giant electronic sign at the entrance to what once was called the Yiwu Small Commodities Wholesale Market. Now, relocated in cavernous new four-story, air-conditioned quarters, the market has renamed itself, with no apparent hubris, the Yiwu World Trade Center.
Inside are thousands of stalls staffed by local factory owners and traders, offering an astonishing selection of hair bows and Christmas ornaments, key rings, plastic jewelry, lava lamps and every other made-in-China trinket that fill stores the world over.
Jin Xiaoqin, a lively woman in her mid-40's, waits for walk-in buyers and watches the fax machine in her booth. On the shelves are a dozen variants of Christian statuary.
"Ours is a typical Yiwu story," she said, "from small to big, from middleman to producer of goods." Her family moved from a mud house in the country to a four-story house in town, and from carrying goods on their shoulders to a motorcycle eight years ago and, last year, a van.
She and her husband were barely educated; their daughter studies marketing at a university.
The pace of growth in Yiwu, as in much of Zhejiang Province, is all the more remarkable because it is entirely home-grown -- not, as in some regions, a product of General Motors, Panasonic, Compaq or other big multinational corporations that have transplanted factories along China's coast. Here, China's surging exports are visibly translating into middle-class status for large numbers of ordinary Chinese.
Illustrating how tightly Yiwu's development is bound with the supply of outside workers, while the official resident population is 640,000, a further 500,000 migrants live in and around Yiwu.
Buying and selling inexpensive goods was a tradition in the area, only partly suppressed in the Mao era, and Ms. Jin had trading in her blood. As a youth with her family in the late 1970's, as petty commerce was allowed, she crafted crude sunglasses. "You had to sell on the sly," she said. "Back then, selling sunglasses was considered decadent." 
Her future husband roamed the country with an uncle, each carrying all the useful little products, like sewing needles and thread, they could carry in a blanket."They'd sell everything, come back to Yiwu and buy more, and go out selling again," she said.
Married in the 1980's, she and her husband moved from one local market to another, lugginggoods on shoulder poles. They set up a permanent stall in Yiwu selling socks, then moved into handicrafts because "there seemed to be more market potential." 
Four years ago they set up their own small plastics factory, concentrating on religious figurines after one foreign buyer brought in a mold and a big order.
Soon they developed their own molds, she said, and business "really took off last year."
They offer workers around $60 a month with room and board to an apparently endless supply of applicants.
The real problem, she said, is finding people skilled enough to paint the eyes of Mary and Jesus.
"You really have to paint the eyes just right," she said. "Foreigners care a lot about the expressions on the faces."

The Strugglers
Wages So Low The Hungry Balk
Yiwu has built an imposing multistory job exchange where employers and job seekers can register, but out front is the real action and the raw face of the market economy. Hundreds of migrants, young men and women, couples with babies in tow, from Jiangxi and Hunan, and Henan, Anhui and Sichuan, mill about, some with signs advertising a skill.
A few prospective employers carry signs offering work but have no takers because the wages and conditions seem too onerous even for this hungry crowd. Waiting with some friends from his home province of Jiangxi on a recent day was Cai Gaoxiang, who has been doing factory jobs in Zhejiang Province for 10 years. Because of slow orders, he recently lost his last job, assembling swivel-headed dog ornaments that motorists put on their dashboards.
He was not feeling so good about that job anyway, he allowed. "The assembly work is really tough," he said. "And they've been pushing down the rates. We used to get 3.5 fen per toy but now they are just paying 2.5 fen." (One fen is a Chinese penny, worth less than one-tenth of an American penny.) 
When the orders are high, he said. assemblers work 14 hours a day, 7 days a week, and might clear $120 in a month. More typical is $90 a month and in a slow month, $50. "Often it's just not enough to get by on," he said.
Mr. Cai has worked in all the boomtowns of Zhejiang -- Hangzhou, Wenzhou and now Yiwu -- but never gained a long-term job or special skills. Still, he does not regret leaving home at 14. "There's nothing to do at home and everybody leaves to work," he said. 
Mr. Cai has managed to save $2,000 but this is not enough to marry his fiancee, from a neighboring Jiangxi village, who works in Yiwu in a socks factory and whom he sees once a month or so.
"My dream is someday to save enough money to return home and build a house and maybe start a small shop of some kind," he said. "Because in the end, if you are a migrant worker you suffer a lot of discrimination and you have a lot of unfair bosses. Even if you're sick, they make you work and the food is often not very good and not enough."

The Backwater
The Poor Villages They Left Behind
Driving west from Yiwu, into the interior provinces, the boomtowns and entrepreneurial energy give way to tired land and resigned eyes. Two hundred miles and a half-century behind in technology is the village of Caijiacun, in the rocky hills of Jiangxi Province.
The villagers are taunted by distant sight of the recently finished cross-national superhighway. There is no nearby exit from the elevated road. Trucks whiz past carrying goods that may have been produced by this backwater village's sons and daughters, goods these stay-behinds will never see. The rutted track into the village is passable by tractor, motorbike or a half-hour walk fromthe nearest car-friendly road.
This region of rice farmers was the incubating ground for the Communist revolution. But that legacy has not brought industry or prosperity. Rice is still planted by hand. 
Like much of central China, rural Jiangxi cannot hold its young people. In Caijiacun, 300 out of 700 residents have left for the cities and coastal regions, leaving behind the middle-aged, the elderly, children, the occasional mother. Sad-faced old women fan themselves at their doors while dogs and piglets roam the dirt paths.
"Life is not so good now," said Cai Songquan, 48, father of a migrant son and a married daughter. Mr. Cai is hardly the poorest villager in China: his home has a concrete floor, he somehow bought a color television and he has stocked enough soft drinks and beer to sell a few now and then. He shares his home with his wife and mother, usually accompanied by a posse of boys who watch TV while the older folks play dominos beneath a large Mao poster. 
"You have to leave to make any money at all, but a lot of those who leave don't make much either," Mr. Cai said. "A few people run into a good opportunity and return with some cash," he said -- the successes are visible in the occasional tile-covered house and shiny new motorcycle. "But a lot of the migrant workers just make enough to get by."
"I can't see how my son is going to do any better," he said, referring to Cai Gaoxiang in Yiwu. "He's always borrowing money from me so he can afford to go look for jobs."
Still, he had encouraged his son to seek distant work at age 14, he said. "It doesn't make any sense to stay in school if you know it's not going to get you anywhere." His daughter has married and, by rural tradition, provides no support to her parents.
Mr. Cai expressed a common ambivalence about China's recent history. Life is a lot better than in the old days, he said. "Back then you were lucky if you had a pair of pants. But compared to a lot of other people these days, life here is very hard for us." 
"Life was poorer under Mao, but it was also more equal," he said. "These days there's more rich and more poor. Overall, I think it was better under Mao."
At her deceptively quiet stall in the Yiwu World Trade Center, Jin Xiaoqin kept an eye on the fax machine as she pondered her family's cheerier prospects, and their continued toil and frugality."We use the van both for family and for business," she said. "We won't buy a family car until our daughter graduates from university because we have to worry about tuition costs."
"Of course life has improved dramatically for us. We couldn't have imagined any of this 10 years ago. But for the time being, we want to use most of our money to build the business."
"And if you come back next year," Ms. Jin said, "Yiwu will be a different place still again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In booming Yiwu, a crowd at the labor building, above, has come in search of jobs that often pay no more than $80 a month. Some of the job seekers come from Caijiacun, below left, a stagnant farm village where Cai Songquan says he barely gets by; his son migrated to Yiwu. Jin Xiaoqin, below right, and her husband have climbed the Yiwu economic pyramid and own a factory making plastic figurines of Mary and Jesus. (Photographs by Erik Eckholm)(pg. A8) Map of China highlighting Yiwu: Yiwu's hot economy pulls in migrants from stagnant rural areas. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); TRENDS (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); PLASTIC PRODUCTS MFG (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); DANCERS (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MIGRANT LABOR; RURAL AREAS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); JIANGXI, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) CHINA; YIWU (CHINA); ZHEJIANG PROVINCE (CHINA); JIANGXI PROVINCE (CHINA); CAIJIACUN (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



679 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Acampaign by the Sierra Club chides General Motors about the Hummer's gas mileage.

BYLINE:  By Danny Hakim 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
ROBERT LUTZ, the cigar-wielding vice chairman and product czar for General Motors, has said that G.M. needs to stir passion by making "love them or hate them" vehicles.
 The Hummer, the current "it" sport utility vehicle in the creeping culture war over the S.U.V., certainly fits the bill. 
 In the latest in a string of exchanges in which environmental groups and the auto industry have parried parody with parody, the Sierra Club today will unveil www.hummerdinger.com, a satirical broadside against G.M.'s Hummer brand. The Web site, created by a boutique ad agency in St. Louis called the Experiment, is in the mold of The Onion, the popular humor Web site that features deadpan delivery of absurdist news items.
"G.M. celebrates Hummer's state-of-the-art 1950's engine technology with some of today's hottest stars" reads the headline of what Hummerdinger.com bills as its top story, adding that Fabian, Pat Boone and Frankie Avalon have been lined up as pitchmen.
The site includes a quiz to see if you're a "Hummer hunk," a list of special accessories that include a custom horn that plays "Ride of the Valkyries," and a place to send a chiding note to G.M. by e-mail.
"The Hummer's tagline is 'Like Nothing Else.' But it should be 'Pollutes Like Nothing Else,' " Daniel Becker, director of the Sierra Club's global warming and energy program, said in a statement.
What does G.M. have to say to all of this?
"If you look at what Hummer is, in terms of its impact on the fuel emissions that vehicles put out, its sales are 0.5 of 1 percent of the U.S. vehicle market," said Pete Ternes, a spokesman for Hummer. "So if you consider that little factoid, what they're trying to do is use the popular image of Hummer to promote their cause, which is a P.R. tactic. There are much bigger fish to fry."
Hummers are the commercial version of the Humvee military transport, featured on television in Middle Eastern conflicts from the first Persian Gulf war right up to the current conflict in Iraq. Humvees and Hummers are manufactured by AM General, a privately held company in South Bend, Ind., but G.M. owns the rights to the Hummer brand.
Hummer's relatively new H2 sport utility, a yuppie-friendly Hummer that starts at about $50,000, has been Detroit's hottest-selling luxury item for the last year. But there have been some signs of a cooling off.
Until recently, the H2 was the only vehicle Detroit seemed to be able to sell without any incentives. But this month, G.M. began offering discounts to clear out its 2003 models, it said, before the 2004 models go on sale in September.
"This model year close-out was part of the business plan from the beginning," said Wendy Orthman, a Hummer spokeswoman. "It's a normal part of the business."
H2's supply has increased from only 13 days ahead of demand in the first months it went on sale a year ago to a more moderate 60- to 70-day supply. The company sold 2,445 H2's last month, its lowest sales for a full month.
"We're up from that this month," Mr. Ternes said. "We expect someplace closer to 3,000" in July.
Peter DeLorenzo, a former Detroit ad man who is now a consultant for the Chrysler Group, said of parody ads like Hummerdinger: "The fringes are the only place where it matters. Ultimately, people buy what they want to buy depending on their financial situation and what turns them on. I don't think the battle between the pro-S.U.V. people and the anti-S.U.V. people, in the end, matters at all."
Michael Bernacchi, a marketing professor at the University of Detroit Mercy, said anti-S.U.V. campaigns, cumulatively, compelled the industry to keep such issues in mind.
"It forces dialogue," he said, adding "nobody can put together any car today without people in the company being devil's advocates about what the reaction is going to be."
The Sierra Club previously attacked the Ford Excursion, a 19-foot-long, 3 1/2-ton S.U.V. that it called the Ford Valdez -- and crowed last year when Ford said it would discontinue the vehicle. More recently, Arianna Huffington, the pundit and columnist, backed a TV campaign linking S.U.V.'s with financing terrorism because of their high gas consumption. And a small evangelical group started a "What Would Jesus Drive?" campaign that was much discussed.
On the industry side, a wave of advertising in Capitol Hill publications and newspapers in crucial states surrounded a failed Senate effort last year to increase fuel economy standards. In one ad, a farmer was depicted worrying that increasing fuel economy would mean hauling hay in subcompact cars instead of pickups.
More recently, an S.U.V. group run by one of the industry's leading public relations firms ran a "What Would Jesus Drive?" campaign featuring a man named Jesus Rivera who drives an S.U.V.
For G.M., Hummers are a profit center in an era of rapidly diminishing profits -- and jobs -- in the automaking business.
For environmental groups, the Hummer is an extreme example of what they see as a broader problem. With growing S.U.V. sales, the fuel economy of the average new vehicle sold in the United States fell to 20.4 miles a gallon in the 2002 model year, the last year for which complete sales data is available. That was a 22-year low.
The centerpiece of Hummerdinger.com is an animated video parody of the entrancing Hummer TV ads. One scene shows a Hummer driver strangled by anaconda-like gas pump hoses as money flies out of his pockets. In another, a bald, jowly figure labeled "G.M executive" steps in front of the Hummer's window mileage sticker, bellowing, "You don't need to see that."
The depiction is wrong on two counts. G.M.'s top executives have their hair largely intact. And Hummers are so heavy they fall outside of the normal fuel economy regulations that govern cars and most S.U.V.'s. G.M. is not even required to post the mileage of Hummers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from a movie on the Hummerdinger.com Web site that takes General Motors to task over fuel efficiency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (75%); WEB SITES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; HUMMER (HIGH MOBILITY MULTIPURPOSE VEHICLE); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (93%) SIERRA CLUB; GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (71%) INDIANA, USA (71%) MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); GULF STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



680 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Power Shift Between Argentina and the I.M.F. 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES 

 BODY:
August promises to be an interesting month in Argentina: in a perceptible shift in the balance of power, a somewhat feisty Argentina will be meeting a less imperious International Monetary Fund to hammer out a new three-year accord.
 For both sides, a lot rides on the deal to replace the current eight-month emergency agreement that expires Aug. 31. 
 For Argentina -- which last year set off the largest sovereign default in history by ceasing payment to its private creditors and is only now showing its first, shaky signs of recovery from a bitter four-year recession -- a new medium-term deal could serve as an economic road map leading back to growth, the repair of its broken banking system and, most important, the renegotiation of $76 billion, or nearly half, of its outstanding public debt.
On the other hand, a deal would help the I.M.F. mend its dented image as chief arbiter and a cornerstone of the world's financial system. The I.M.F. has been harshly chastised by critics who say it lent too much money to Argentina in the booming 1990's and then abandoned it two years ago as its economy imploded. 
But more than mere face-saving, a new agreement would save the fund and other international financial institutions from a default on money Argentina owes them, arguably more serious than the one suffered last year by private bondholders. This factor might give Argentina greater leverage than it has had in past talks, analysts say.
By the end of the year, Argentina must meet payments of more than $6 billion on its multilateral debt. Failure to pay could call into question the triple-A status of the fund, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank in financial markets, analysts say.
Argentina owes $14.3 billion to the I.M.F., more than 500 percent of the country's statutory I.M.F. quota (the generally accepted borrowing limit is 300 percent). At the World Bank, its $8.5 billion debt makes up nearly 8 percent of the institution's loans, while the $8 billion it owes to the Inter-American Development Bank represents nearly a fifth of the bank's debt portfolio.
"The I.M.F. will lend them money," said John Welch, chief Latin American economist at WestLB in New York. "The fund doesn't want to have to deal with a default on itself. It is desperate to be seen as a constructive force in Argentina."
So much so that Thomas C. Dawson, director of external relations at the fund, said recently that reaching a medium-term agreement with Argentina was "clearly a matter of priority" and "a matter of urgency."
In Argentina itself, however, there seems to be less sense of urgency. After the country's economy shrank by nearly a fifth from 1998 to 2002, it grew by nearly 6 percent in the first quarter. As it is no longer paying its private creditors, Argentina now has a comfortable budget surplus that means that at least for now, the government can afford expansive economic policies without asking for new loans.
In addition, the country's trade accounts have gone from deficit into surplus as a result of the peso devaluation. The peso, volatile after it was cut free from its decade-long peg to the dollar last year, has stabilized and inflation is firmly under control. Unemployment, while still high at 17 percent, is off the 20 percent peak of just months ago.
Nestor Kirchner, Argentina's newly elected president, has won popularity by raising minimum wages and imposing capital controls on what he sees as short-term speculation by foreign investors, both measures that raised some eyebrows at the I.M.F.
Mr. Kirchner met with President Bush last week, and Mr. Kirchner's accounts of their encounter were glowing. Asked if President Bush supported Argentina in its talks with the I.M.F., Mr. Kirchner said: "He went further than that. There was clear, complete commitment."
Others were less upbeat. The peso slumped Friday on dismay that Mr. Kirchner had released no details of the meeting, nor of a new loan accord.
Perhaps most striking, though, was Mr. Kirchner's public reprimand of the fund during a recent visit here by its managing director, Horst Kohler, as being largely to blame for Argentina's current financial woes. To the surprise of the markets -- and many Argentines -- Mr. Kohler made a partial mea culpa and praised the president as a man who has a vision for Argentina.
"For the first time since the early Menem years, the I.M.F. is dealing with a president who is not bending to the fund's every whim," said Alan A. Cibils, a Buenos Aires economist and research associate for the Center for Economic Policy and Research in Washington referring to Carlos Saul Menem, a former president. "I think he is capable of saying no to an I.M.F. agreement."
Mr. Kirchner has said he will not sign any agreement Argentina cannot meet.
One possible sticking point could be I.M.F. demands that Argentina raise its fiscal surplus, currently at 2.5 percent of gross domestic product, to a figure closer to the 4.25 percent the fund has negotiated with neighboring Brazil. The fund also wants to include higher utility prices in the agreement and an end to a ban on mortgage foreclosures, items Mr. Kirchner will be loath to accept.
"If an agreement with the I.M.F. means more austerity, then that would be worse for Argentina than no agreement at all," Mr. Cibils said.
One I.M.F. official involved in preparations for the negotiations privately acknowledged the Herculean task needed to reach agreement by the end of August.
"Probably only by mid-August will we have any idea if there's a Plan B on the table," said the official, suggesting such a plan could be a shorter-term extension of the current agreement.
Yet few doubt that Argentina needs to come to terms with the I.M.F., if it really wants to get its economy back to normal.
"The problem is the horizon is very confused," said Juan Luis Bour, director of the Foundation for Latin American Economic Research in Buenos Aires. "We need a framework for economic policy, while so far we have just had crisis management. That's where an I.M.F. deal would help."
Although the trade and fiscal surpluses give the government some room to maneuver on economic policy, most analysts agree that growth will run into bottlenecks unless Argentine business and consumers can start getting access to credit again.
Domestic bank loans, worth nearly a third of gross domestic product in the 1990's, now represent less than a tenth of the economy's current size as the banking system has essentially stopped granting credit. Despite this year's economic pickup, auto sales, typically 40,000 a month before the crisis, are now languishing at a level below 10,000 a month.
Perhaps most important, though, an I.M.F. deal would serve as a cornerstone for Argentina's renegotiation of the debt it defaulted on last year. Private bondholders, who have not been paid since January 2002, are still smarting, and have begun looking toward a settlement on what they are owed. 
"If Argentina gets a three-year I.M.F. deal, creditors will be able to see there is a willingness to negotiate seriously, and the increased fiscal surplus that the I.M.F. will no doubt insist on implies the country will be in a position to pay something," Mr. Bour said.
Bondholders got word recently that Argentina was setting up four investor committees in New York, Germany, Italy and Japan, the markets where most private bondholders are concentrated. Guillermo Nielsen, finance secretary of Argentina, is expected to present a plan to renegotiate terms on more than 150 bond issues at the I.M.F.'s annual meeting in Dubai in September.
"We seem to be on the verge of some sort of progress," said Peter Allen, financial adviser to a group of 70 American investors who hold $7 billion in Argentine bonds. He said an I.M.F. deal would lend credibility to whatever proposals Argentina makes.
Other investors are more cautious, specifically about how much of a reduction, or "haircut," they may have to take on their debt. Stefan Engelsberger, head of a group of 270 German bondholders who own 200 million euros of Argentine debt, says he believes that an I.M.F. deal will require Argentina to do a fair and transparent restructuring of its debt.
"That is good news," he said. "But the bad news is that the I.M.F. wants blood from us, too."
Doug Smith, chief economist for the Americas at Standard Chartered Bank in New York, said: "I wouldn't be surprised if, in the first round of negotiations, what is put on the table is a 60 percent haircut," adding, "You have to think what can Argentina really pay." Indeed, Argentine debt trades at around 30 cents on the dollar.
Mr. Engelsberger, a businessman from Inzell in the Bavarian Alps, says he is opening a cafe in the village to sell Argentine products and thus do his part to help Argentina recover and repay its debts. He expects the I.M.F. to do the same.
"We know that Argentina is recovering and that the I.M.F. hasa lot of money," he said in a telephone interview. "Our attitude is realistic, but a 70 percent, or even 50 percent haircut is out of the question. That's just tactics."
Tactics or not, most analysts believe Argentina ultimately needs to seal the I.M.F. deal before negotiating with bondholders.
"Argentina seems in a pretty good position to dictate some terms to the I.M.F.," Mr. Smith of Standard Chartered Bank said. "But if they don't go the way of the I.M.F., in the long term they're not going to look that good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Nestor Kirchner of Argentina with President Bush in Washington last week. Mr. Kirchner's economic measures have been popular. (Photo by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); TRENDS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); BONDS (76%); RECESSION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%) CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); WESTLB AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN K WELCH (52%) SMITH, TONY; KIRCHNER, NESTOR (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



681 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Pearson Posts Narrower Loss for Year's First Half 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 28 

 BODY:
Pearson, the British owner of the Penguin Group and The Financial Times, today reported a narrower $:160 million ($260 million) net loss for the first half, a nearly $:50 million improvement from a year ago.
 The group suffered as budget cuts in the United States pared book orders from schools, and global economic troubles cut advertising sales at its flagship newspaper, but the company did better than analysts expected, in part because it managed to cut costs at the Financial Times division. The shares have lagged those of other media companies, but today's results sent the shares higher by more than 2 percent on the London Stock Exchange. 
 "The numbers were O.K., and they had a reasonably reassuring tone and message," said Paul Sullivan, a media analyst with Merrill Lynch.
Pearson's sales in the first six months of the year were $:1.67 billion ($1.92 billion), down 8 percent from a year ago. The education division felt the impact of budget pressures as public schools in Texas, Kentucky and elsewhere deferred some purchases until later in the year. Total sales in the division were $:927 million ($1.5 billion), down 12 percent from a year ago. 
The Financial Times Group's sales were flat, at $:370 million ($599 million), from a year ago as advertising revenue and average daily sales fell in its main markets, but readership increased at Recoletos, the Spanish media outlet.
"You don't want to hear this is the worst ad recession in living memory any more than I do, but that is a salient point," the chief executive, Marjorie Scardino, told analysts and investors in a conference call.
She was cautious not to promise a quick recovery, saying that advertising volume was still erratic and that it was "still too early to predict" when a rebound may happen.
Over all, circulation of The Financial Times was down 5 percent in the first six months from the previous year, to 461,000 a day. The British version of the paper was revamped earlier this year, and circulation was up 6 percent in May and June from the four months before the overhaul.
The company plans to start an Asian version of the newspaper in August.
Profits at the Interactive Data Corporation, the Financial Times unit's securities pricing group, rose 17 percent, as the company cut costs.
At Penguin, the publishing division, sales were down 7 percent, to $:368 million ($596 million), in the first half. The unit is particularly weighted to the second half, Pearson said, and the war in Iraq damped consumer spending.
The unit got an unexpected boost in sales from Oprah Winfrey, who restarted her popular book club in June with a focus toward classic literature. Penguin is the sole publisher of her first selection, "East of Eden" by John Steinbeck. Pearson has sold well over one million copies of the Steinbeck work in the last four weeks, Ms. Scardino told the conference call.
Pearson's losses before taxes decreased 27 percent, to $:138 million ($223 million), which reflected the fact that the company spread its good will, or depreciation from previous purchases, evenly throughout the year though profits are generally higher in the second half.
Ms. Scardino remained optimistic about the company's long-term prospects. "Our book publishing operations are proving resilient," she said, and the newspapers "will bounce back strongly when business advertising recovers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An advertising slump and limited book orders affected The Financial Times and the Penguin Group. Marjorie Scardino, the chief executive of Pearson, said it was too early to predict the beginning of a rebound. (Photo by Bloomberg News); (Photo by Pearson P.L.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (95%); PEARSON PLC (92%); INTERACTIVE DATA CORP (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PEARSON PLC 

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (92%); PSO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: MARJORIE SCARDINO (79%); OPRAH WINFREY (56%) TIMMONS, HEATHER; SCARDINO, MARJORIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) KENTUCKY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



682 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Failed Manila Mutiny Leaves U.S. Ties Secure 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: MANILA, July 28 

 BODY:
For the Bush administration, the Philippines is seen as a beachhead for American troops in the campaign against terrorism in Southeast Asia, and the mutiny by some 300 soldiers over the weekend seems unlikely to change Washington's warmth toward President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo.
 Mrs. Arroyo, who was trained as an economist and educated in the United States, appears to be President Bush's favorite leader in the region. He treated her to a state visit in Washington in May, and he plans to come to Manila in October en route to an Asian summit meeting in Thailand. No other country in the region has received such personal attention from Mr. Bush. 
 That is in part because no other country -- not the Muslim nations of Indonesia or Malaysia, not even pro-American Singapore -- has been willing to allow American troops to train on its territory to the extent that the Philippines has, officials said. 
Mrs. Arroyo delivered her State of the Nation address today, and made no reference to the revolt beyond pledging again that she would ask an independent commission to investigate the complaints of the rebellious officers. 
Just before her speech, the government said it had arrested a member of the cabinet of the former president, Joseph Estrada, in connection with the mutiny. The arrested man, Ramon Cardenas, was deputy executive secretary to Mr. Estrada, Mrs. Arroyo's immediate predecessor. Some of her supporters have suggested that Mr. Estrada, in alliance with conservative elements in the military, was behind the mutiny. 
Western experts said the mutiny was certainly not the handiwork of idealistic young officers. The handsome armbands, the sophisticated food supplies and the blue water bottles of the mutineers suggested logistical support well beyond the means of officers pooling their resources, one expert said. 
In an effort to show resolute support for Mrs. Arroyo, the American ambassador, Francis Ricciardone, said in a statement on Sunday that "at this time, we don't believe there is a real threat to the Arroyo government." 
Plans by the Pentagon to conduct a joint mission with the Philippine military later this year, an effort to build on smaller training efforts in the last two years, are still under way, an American military official said today.
"We are still talking with the Philippine government about a possible training event later this year," the official said. No decisions have been made on location or schedules, he said. 
The Pentagon announced earlier this year that 1,700 American soldiers would go to the southern Philippines, an area that has become a training ground for Al Qaeda's Southeast Asia affiliate, Jemaah Islamiyah. The Philippines, a former colony of the United States, is predominantly Christian.
In June, the commander of the Pacific forces, Adm. Thomas B. Fargo, said the exercise would be delayed until the end of year to allow time to work out the rules of engagement. The Philippine Constitution forbids foreign forces to fight on its territory, a prohibition that American military planners say requires defining more precisely the nature of the mission. 
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has pressed Pentagon planners to devise more flexible troop deployments in the Pacific arena, and has become intensely interested in having American troops do more antiterror training there, the American military official said.
The weekend revolt highlighted the difficulties the United States faces in trying to help the Philippine military, which is considered one of the most corrupt in the region. Some of the 70 officers who led the revolt were members of two elite rapid reaction forces chosen by the Pentagon in the last year for antiterror training.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo gave her State of the Nation address in the Philippine Congress yesterday. At left was the Senate president, Franklin Drilon, and at right the House speaker, Jose de Venecia. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUPS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (91%) PERLEZ, JANE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARROYO, GLORIA MACAPAGAL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (95%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); INDONESIA (79%) PHILIPPINES

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



683 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Rights Group Reports Abuses by Afghans, Some Backed by U.S. 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, July 28 

 BODY:
A human rights report has documented widespread extortion, armed robbery and kidnapping by police and intelligence officials and militias in Afghanistan. The report accuses the United States of supporting some of the worst offenders, and blames all countries for not doing enough to intervene and halt the abuses.
 The 101-page report, titled "Killing You Is a Very Easy Thing for Us," by the New York-based Human Rights Watch, is a list of violent crimes committed against Afghan civilians in recent months in 12 provinces in eastern and southeastern Afghanistan. It also details threats against journalists, feminists and political activists. 
 The report, which is being released on Tuesday, accused soldiers, police officers, commanders and even current cabinet ministers of responsibility for much of the violence, which, it said, was occurring across Afghanistan. The perpetrators are people who came to power after the United States-led intervention that overthrew the Taliban government in 2001, and who are now abusing their authority, the report said.
"The United States in particular bears much of the responsibility for the actions of those they have propelled to power, for failing to take steps against other abusive leaders, and for impeding attempts to force them to step aside," it said. "Their continued funding, joint operations and fraternizing with warlords has sent, at best, mixed messages about their goals and intentions." 
 In Washington, State Department officials said they had not yet seen the report. 
The authors of the report predicted that the warlords and abusive commanders would become more entrenched with time and could threaten the success of President Hamid Karzai's government. The report called for an expansion of the international peacekeeping force and more support for disarmament and demobilization.
The report did not criticize Mr. Karzai. Some diplomats and government officials contend that his indecisiveness and his policy of appeasing powerful warlords to keep the peace have kept many abusers in power.
"Many of these violations are preventable, but solutions will require the concerted attention and action of international and Afghan authorities alike, which to date has not been sufficiently forthcoming," Human Rights Watch said.
A Western diplomat welcomed the report for disclosing the situation on the ground.
But he said there was little international support to send more peacekeepers. "The Afghans have to police themselves," he said. 
An unidentified editor supplied the title of the report, attributing it to a statement by armed men serving the defense minister, Marshal Muhammad Qasim Fahim, who came to the editor's house after he published a cartoon of President Karzai and Marshal Fahim. "They threatened me," the editor said in the report. "They said: 'Look, killing you is a very easy thing for us. Look: We have 30 bullets in our clips. I can shoot all of these 30 bullets into your chest right now, and there is no one who can stop us.' "
The most serious abuses described involved armed robbery, abduction, rape and assaults on civilians, often committed by members of the police, military and intelligence services with the knowledge of high-level commanders, the report said. Soldiers and police officers are accused of extortion, arbitrary arrests, beatings, holding people for ransom in "private prisons" and possible torture. 
Villagers in Paghman, west of Kabul, recounted in the report how they patrolled their houses at night to deter armed robbers, many of them local policemen and soldiers loyal to Abdul Rabb al-Rasul Sayyaf, who is a member of the Northern Alliance. Often the robberies involved rape, but rape is so taboo that Human Rights Watch did not obtain firsthand accounts from any victims.
The report said much of the violence occurred because police and army officers in every district have developed a climate of impunity. Some violence, the report said, was driven by power struggles, ethnic rivalries and economics; police officers and soldiers often go unpaid for months. 
One graphic account from a witness described how the Kabul police chief, a former mujahedeen commander named Basir Salangi, beat two detained students so violently that his own men had to restrain him.
The report also included an account of how the minister of education, Yunis Qanuni, a senior member of the Northern Alliance and a national security adviser, telephoned threats to the leader of a small political party that had published articles critical of the mujahedeen. 
"I want you to revise your movement, your publication," the party leader quoted Mr. Qanuni as saying. When the party leader refused to comply, the report said, Mr. Qanuni threatened to come to his house. The party leader requested help from international peacekeepers. 
Some abuses are committed by men loyal to people who have been politically sidelined but retain influence through commanders loyal to them, the report said.
But other culprits, the report said, hold important government positions and work closely with United States forces in the war against terrorists. Hazrat Ali, a commander in eastern Afghanistan, for example, was criticized for allowing his commanders, including his own nephew, a police commander named Sami, to be involved in extortion on the roads, arbitrary detentions, beatings and holding people for ransom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); EXTORTION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); ETHICS (78%); ROBBERY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (75%); WRITERS (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); DISARMAMENT (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (67%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (63%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL; KIDNAPPING; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (83%) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH; TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%) GALL, CARLOTTA; KARZAI, HAMID (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



684 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: ESTRANGED ALLIES; 
France and Germany Consider Possible Roles in Postwar Iraq

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: PARIS, July 28 

 BODY:
The open-ended American military occupation of Iraq is forcing European powers that opposed the war, notably France and Germany, to contemplate whether and how to help with the aftereffects.
 There are no illusions in the corridors of power in Paris that President Jacques Chirac and his outspoken foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, will be able to repair the damage to their relationship with the Bush administration. By all accounts, Mr. Chirac and President Bush do not particularly like each other, and their administrations deal with each other more out of need than out of friendship. 
 But the vulnerability of American soldiers in Iraq and the determination by the American military to internationalize the troop presence on the ground have changed the political and diplomatic landscape and raised the possibility that France -- and perhaps Washington's other reluctant allies in NATO -- could contribute to making peace in Iraq.
Mr. Chirac has ruled out any participation of French troops in a peacemaking or peacekeeping capacity unless there is a United Nations mandate. Senior German officials similarly refuse to consider the deployment of troops without a changed mandate, but as one of them noted last week, "We do not want the American occupation to fail."
In a radio interview last week, Mr. de Villepin argued that only a Security Council resolution handing responsibility for Iraq's security and its political and economic future to the United Nations could secure the peace. "Piecing together a system with what already exists, adding foreign troops to coalition forces, does not seem to us the best way to guarantee security in Iraq," he said.
That said, French military planners are drawing up contingency plans to send troops to Iraq in the unlikely event that France is asked to help fulfill a United Nations mandate, senior French officials said. France could put together a force of 8,000 to 10,000 troops, they added.
France is in effect setting the bar for troop deployment so high that Washington will either not ask for French troops or will refuse to accept French conditions for sending them under a United Nations umbrella, officials suggested.
"In one sense, we were sending a signal to Washington," said one senior French official. "We didn't want to be faced with having to say no." He added, "The French Army would feel humiliated to go to Iraq and be put in the same category as the Poles or the Uruguayans as part of the cleanup team."
After intense questioning at a Senate hearing this month, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld told reporters that the United States "would be happy to have troops from a wide variety of countries, including France." In another Senate hearing last week, Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said during questioning that "it would be in our best interest" if a NATO force went to Iraq.
Neither France nor Germany is likely to agree to a large NATO role in Iraq as long as the United States is the mainoccupying power.
"We need to be positive and constructive, and not just snicker in our little corner, saying, 'They are in trouble,' " said the former French foreign minister Hubert Vedrine in an interview on Europe 1 radio last Friday. "But at the same time, we cannot simply send men in Iraq, in my opinion, to support a policy whose purpose we don't see. So it's about adding troops to the G.I.'s, to do what? We need to talk about the 'to do what.' "
But the strategy of setting conditions for possible troop deployment in Iraq could backfire. When Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations asked Mr. Chirac in May to send French troops to lead a peacekeeping force in Congo, Mr. Chirac did not say no but responded with tough conditions. He was said by aides to have been stunned when the conditions were swiftly met.
Complicating any rapprochement with the United States is Mr. Chirac's clinging to his vision of a "multipolar" world in which the United States does not dominate. "We can no longer accept the simple law of the strongest," he said in a prepared statement during a visit to Malaysia last week.
The official Elysee Palace interpreter gave Mr. Chirac's words an even more ominous meaning in English, saying, "We can no longer agree to have the law of the strongest, the law of the jungle," although Mr. Chirac did not use that actual phrase.
What he did say was powerful enough. "What we need is an international structure, an international mechanism to eliminate unilateralism and bring about multilateralism," he said. The goal, he added, is "that nobody feels sidelined, marginalized, humiliated."
At the Group of 8 economic summit in France in June, Mr. Bush assured Mr. Chirac that it was not American policy to be hostile toward France, and he blamed the news media for exaggerating problems.
However, shortly afterward, no American officers above the rank of colonel attended the Paris Air Show in June, and there were no demonstration flights by American warplanes, all on Mr. Rumsfeld's orders.
Mr. Rumsfeld also prevailed upon the Air Force chief of staff, Gen. John P. Jumper, not to invite his French counterpart, Gen. Richard Wolsztynski, to a prestigious September conference -- a decision overturned only after bitter complaints through diplomatic channels.
In some areas, relations between the countries are back on track. Tommy G. Thompson, the American secretary of health and human services, who is chairman of the board of Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, was said by French officials to have been particularly gracious at an international AIDS conference in Paris this month.
On the delicate issue of nonproliferation, French officials said cooperation with the Bush administration had been excellent, particularly concerning North Korea's nuclear and missile programs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jacques Chirac of France with President Bush in June at the Group of 8 meeting in Evian-les-Bains. At the meeting, Mr. Bush told Mr. Chirac that hostility toward France was not American policy. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORISM (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%) SCIOLINO, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (94%); IRAQ (94%); POLAND (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



685 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Bush Takes On Challenge of Trying to Woo Black Voters 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, July 28 

 BODY:
 President Bush sought today to address one of his greatest political challenges, his lack of support among black voters, telling the National Urban League's annual convention here that "we will not tire until we have extended the great promise of America to every neighborhood in America."
Mr. Bush won only about 9 percent of the black vote in 2000. With his re-election campaign getting in gear, the White House has tried to make inroads among African-Americans in a variety of ways, including having Mr. Bush travel earlier this month to Africa, where he spoke of how an unbreakable spirit brought across the Atlantic by slaves ultimately helped strengthen and enrich the United States.
 In what amounted to a near head-to-head matchup between the two parties on racial politics, seven of the nine Democratic presidential contenders followed Mr. Bush here this evening for a forum sponsored by the league. Their aides said they intended to attack Mr. Bush's record on issues like judicial appointments, poverty and unemployment. The jobless rate among black workers in June was 11.8 percent, compared with 6.4 percent for all workers and 5.5 percent for white ones.
Mr. Bush's appearance brought to life the challenge he has faced in trying to be both a traditional conservative with a strong appeal to white and Southern constituencies, and what his aides describe as a "different kind of Republican" who can broaden his party's appeal to low-income and minority voters.
In his remarks, Mr. Bush tweaked his usual stump speech to give special emphasis to his call for government to help religious groups address social problems, and he spoke in detail about his approach to improving education. He defended his tax cuts as good for the economy and job creation, called on Congress to extend the recently adopted increase in the child tax credit to low-income working families and ticked off other policy proposals, including help for minority home buyers.
He did not mention aspects of his agenda that he often highlights before more conservative groups, like his call for Congress to limit spending increases, and he cast himself as an advocate of activist government.
"To make the promise of America real for everyone, we need active citizens who help their neighbors, we need active churches and active communities, and we need active government," Mr. Bush said. "We can make a difference in people's lives with creative, innovative policies that focus on results."
After his speech, which received a polite reception from the crowd, Mr. Bush made another gesture to ease tensions with black political leaders. He asked two leaders who were in the audience, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Representative Elijah E. Cummings, the Maryland Democrat who is chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, to join him backstage for a 20-minute meeting. Mr. Bush has been criticized by members of the caucus for not meeting with them and not speaking to annual conventions of other civil rights organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
"I was a bit surprised," said Mr. Cummings, who said he had not requested the meeting. "He's been good at doing certain kinds of photo ops, so I'm always kind of leery."
Mr. Cummings said later that they had discussed several issues, including whether Mr. Bush would order American troops into Liberia to help enforce a cease-fire there. Mr. Cummings said that while waiting for Mr. Bush, he had pressed Karl Rove, the president's senior political adviser, for a meeting between Mr. Bush and the black caucus. Mr. Bush has never met with the caucus.
Mr. Cummings said black voters needed to focus on whether Mr. Bush's positions on issues like tax cuts, education, health care and the appointment of judges were helping African-American families and the cause of civil rights. The answer, Mr. Cummings suggested, is no.
"The president needs to synchronize his conscience with his conduct," Mr. Cummings said after discussing Mr. Bush's judicial appointments.
Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, told reporters traveling with Mr. Bush on Air Force One that the president would have to "work hard" to increase the percentage of the black vote he draws next year, but that he had a chance to succeed.
"He's not going to leave anybody out, even if Democrats have done well in the past," Mr. Specter said.
The trip was at least the 20th to Pennsylvania by Mr. Bush since he became president, reflecting his desire to bring the state, which went to Al Gore in 2000, into the Republican column in 2004.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jesse Jackson, left, and Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, listened to President Bush's speech yesterday at the National Urban League convention and then met with him. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); FAMILY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); TAX LAW (67%); RELIGION (63%) BLACKS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (93%) NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



686 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Trade Center Is on Track, Downtown Residents Say 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
Residents of Lower Manhattan say the effort to rebuild downtown and the World Trade Center is moving in the right direction, and they are generally satisfied with the new design for the World Trade Center site, according to a poll by Pace University released yesterday.
 But many downtown residents say that some of the power to make decisions about the rebuilding should be in different hands. 
 For example, when asked who should have responsibility for deciding about an appropriate memorial at the trade center site, the largest portion, 40 percent of those polled, said the decisions should be made by the families of those killed there. Almost none named the official jury of 13 people appointed by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which includes only one family member. 
Nearly two-thirds of the residents said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg should have influence over the rebuilding, while fewer than half said Gov. George E. Pataki should be influential. The two leaders have sparred over a number of rebuilding issues, but Mr. Pataki has generally exercised more influence over big decisions.
"That shows that Mayor Bloomberg has the largest mandate for guiding the rebuilding process," said Jonathan Trichter, the founder and director of the Pace Poll, a new polling center supported by Pace University. He added that the poll results also showed that the rebuilding effort was being "intensely scrutinized."
The Pace center, which questioned 601 randomly selected downtown residents over nine days this month by phone, says it plans to track the opinions of downtown residents every six months to gauge opinions of the effort and to stimulate discussion about the rebuilding. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Most downtown residents surveyed appear to have formed opinions about the progress of the rebuilding effort, Mr. Trichter said. Six out of 10 people said they were keeping up with the rebuilding process, he said, although less than one-fourth had participated in the planning meetings or hearings.
Roughly half said they felt the effort was moving in the right direction, compared with 25 percent who said things were on the wrong track. The remainder expressed no opinion.
Two-thirds also said they knew something about the new design for the trade center site, developed by Daniel Libeskind, and 46 percent said they were very satisfied or somewhat satisfied with the design. That compares with 29 percent who said they were not satisfied; the remainder had no opinion or said they did not know enough to judge.
Mr. Trichter noted that 33 percent were able to respond accurately when asked, in an open-ended question, to name the architect. "That is astonishingly high when you consider that most Americans struggle to name their own representative to Congress,"he said.
Downtown residents also rated several objectives as having high importance, including the rebuilding of commercial space at the trade center site, the selection of an appropriate memorial and the construction of a major transportation center in Lower Manhattan. 
Receiving lower relative ratings were the transformation of Fulton Street, reconfiguring downtown streets to improve access, and making sidewalks wider and more attractive to improve pedestrian traffic.
More than 60 percent of those questioned also said they believed the cleanup and monitoring of air quality downtown had gone very well or somewhat well, twice the percentage who responded negatively to the question. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



687 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: 2nd-Quarter Net Rises 11% at American Express 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Earnings at American Express rose in the second quarter, the company said yesterday, exceeding Wall Street analysts' forecasts by 2 cents a share.
 American Express, based in New York, said net income increased more than 11 percent, to $762 million, or 59 cents a share, from $683 million, or 51 cents, a year earlier. 
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had expected earnings of 57 cents a share.
In trading yesterday, American Express stock fell 59 cents, to $45.01.
Arvind Sachdeva, a senior portfolio manager at Victory Capital Management in Cleveland, said the results indicated "a pretty solid quarter." He credited efforts by American Express to encourage the use of its cards for everyday spending at an increasing number of stores, including supermarkets and home improvement centers.
In a statement, the American Express chairman and chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, noted that the growth in earnings came despite the effects of the Iraq war and the SARS outbreak on travel and other spending. The company, he said, has the flexibility "to capitalize on competitive opportunities at a time when we are seeing some early signs of an economic recovery."
Mr. Chenault projected earnings for the year at $2.29 a share, above the $2.26 forecast by analysts.
Profit increased in the three principal divisions -- travel services, American Express Financial Advisers and the American Express Bank.
Still, American Express Financial Advisers continued to report a loss on its investment portfolio -- $16 million in the quarter, compared with $85 million a year earlier when it suffered from its WorldCom debt holdings. WorldCom is in bankruptcy reorganization.
Revenue for the second quarter was $6.36 billion, up nearly 7 percent from $5.95 billion a year earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); HOME CENTERS (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (65%); SARS (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (90%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); AMP (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); STAN (LSE) (54%); 2888 (HKSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



688 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: PLANS AND CRITICISMS; 
Pentagon Prepares A Futures Market On Terror Attacks

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
The Pentagon office that proposed spying electronically on Americans to monitor potential terrorists has a new experiment. It is an online futures trading market, disclosed today by critics, in which anonymous speculators would bet on forecasting terrorist attacks, assassinations and coups.
 Traders bullish on a biological attack on Israel or bearish on the chances of a North Korean missile strike would have the opportunity to bet on the likelihood of such events on a new Internet site established by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. 
 The Pentagon called its latest idea a new way of predicting events and part of its search for the "broadest possible set of new ways to prevent terrorist attacks." Two Democratic senators who reported the plan called it morally repugnant and grotesque. The senators said the program fell under the control of Adm. John M. Poindexter, President Ronald Reagan's national security adviser. 
One of the two senators, Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota, said the idea seemed so preposterous that he had trouble persuading people it was not a hoax. "Can you imagine," Mr. Dorgan asked, "if another country set up a betting parlor so that people could go in -- and is sponsored by the government itself -- people could go in and bet on the assassination of an American political figure?" 
After Mr. Dorgan and his fellow critic, Ron Wyden of Oregon, spoke out, the Pentagon sought to play down the importance of a program for which the Bush administration has sought $8 million through 2005. The White House also altered the Web site so that the potential events to be considered by the market thatwere visible earlier in the day at www.policyanalysismarket.org could no longer be seen.
But by that time, Republican officials in the Senate were privately shaking their heads over the planned trading. One top aide said he hoped that the Pentagon had a good explanation for it.
The Pentagon, in defending the program, said such futures trading had proven effective in predicting other events like oil prices, elections and movie ticket sales.
"Research indicates that markets are extremely efficient, effective and timely aggregators of dispersed and even hidden information," the Defense Department said in a statement. "Futures markets have proven themselves to be good at predicting such things as elections results; they are often better than expert opinions."
According to descriptions given to Congress, available at the Web site and provided by the two senators, traders who register would deposit money into an account similar to a stock account and win or lose money based on predicting events.
"For instance," Mr. Wyden said, "you may think early on that Prime Minister X is going to be assassinated. So you buy the futures contracts for 5 cents each. As more people begin to think the person's going to be assassinated, the cost of the contract could go up, to 50 cents.
"The payoff if he's assassinated is $1 per future. So if it comes to pass, and those who bought at 5 cents make 95 cents. Those who bought at 50 cents make 50 cents."
The senators also suggested that terrorists could participate because the traders' identities will be unknown.
"This appears to encourage terrorists to participate, either to profit from their terrorist activities or to bet against them in order to mislead U.S. intelligence authorities," they said in a letter to Admiral Poindexter, the director of the Terrorism Information Awareness Office, which the opponents said had developed the idea. 
The initiative, called the Policy Analysis Market, is to begin registering up to 1,000 traders on Friday. It is the latest problem for the advanced projects agency, or Darpa, a Pentagon unit that has run into controversy for the Terrorism Information Office. Admiral Poindexter once described a sweeping electronic surveillance plan as a way of forestalling terrorism by tapping into computer databases to collect medical, travel, credit and financial records. 
Worried about the reach of the program, Congress this year prohibited what was called the Total Information Awareness program from being used against Americans. Its name was changed to the Terrorism Information Awareness program.
This month, the Senate agreed to block all spending on the program. The House did not. Mr. Wyden said he hoped that the new disclosure about the trading program would be the death blow for Admiral Poindexter's plan.
The Pentagon did not provide details of the program like how much money participants would have to deposit in accounts. Trading is to begin on Oct. 1, with the number of participants initially limited to 1,000 and possibly expanding to 10,000 by Jan. 1.
"Involvement in this group prediction process should prove engaging and may prove profitable," the Web site said.
The overview of the plan said the market would focus on the economic, civil and military futures of Egypt, Jordan, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Syria and Turkey and the consequences of United States involvement with those nations. The creators of the market envision other trappings of existing markets like derivatives.
In a statement, Darpa said the trading idea was "currently a small research program thatfaces a number of major technical challenges and uncertainties."
"Chief among these," the agency said, "are: Can the market survive and will people continue to participate when U.S. authorities use it to prevent terrorist attacks? Can futures markets be manipulated by adversaries?"
Mr. Dorgan and Mr. Wyden called for an immediate end to the project and said they would use its existence to justify cutting off financial support for the overall effort. In the letter to Admiral Poindexter, they called the initiative a "wasteful and absurd" use of tax dollars.
"The American people want the federal government to use its resources enhancing our security, not gambling on it," the letter said.
The two lawmakers said the program needed to adhere to a high standard because of the involvement of Admiral Poindexter, who was convicted of lying to Congress about weapons sales to Iran and illegal aid to Nicaraguan rebels. His conviction was later reversed on the ground that he had been given immunity for testimony in which he lied.
In their letter, the senators cited the example from the Pentagon of a bioterror attack on Israel.
"Surely, such a threat should be met with intelligence gathering of the highest quality -- not by putting the question to individuals betting on an Internet Web site," they wrote.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Ron Wyden, right, and Byron L. Dorgan disclosing Pentagon plan for a market in which traders would bet on future terrorism. They said they had trouble persuading people that the plan was not a hoax. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); FUTURES (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); ASSASSINATION (91%); ONLINE TRADING (90%); COUPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); GAMING (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); TICKET SALES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%) TERRORISM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (57%) TERRORISM INFORMATION AWARENESS OFFICE 

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (90%); RON WYDEN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) HULSE, CARL; POINDEXTER, JOHN M; WYDEN, RON (SEN); DORGAN, BYRON L (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



689 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: MCI's Competitors Are Quick to Make Useof Federal Inquiry 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
MCI came under attack today from rival phone companies, which seized on the news that it is the focus of a criminal investigation. One competitor criticized MCI in bankruptcy court, another challenged its government business and a third made public letters suggesting that MCI's new management team had been aware for some time of the problems at the center of the inquiry.
 MCI, whose lawyers met today with federal investigators, said it intended to conduct an internal inquiry into accusations that it improperly diverted phone traffic to avoid paying access fees on long-distance calls to other companies. 
 "As I have said all along, we will do the right thing," said Michael D. Capellas, MCI's chairman and chief executive. "We have a zero-tolerance policy, and if any wrongdoing is discovered you can be certain that we will take appropriate action swiftly." 
AT&T, Verizon and SBC Communications all lodged complaints against MCI today.
AT&T filed an objection to MCI's bankruptcy plan in federal court in Manhattan and announced its intention to file a fraud and racketeering suit against the company. AT&T said the diversion of calls had cost it "millions of dollars" and had allowed MCI executives "to continue understating and misrepresenting their true financial position in reports" to the bankruptcy court and elsewhere.
Verizon sent a letter to the General Services Administration asking the government to suspend MCI from winning new government business. The letter, by Verizon's general counsel, William P. Barr, an attorney general during the administration of President Bush's father, said that "the United States is now on notice that it is effectively serving as a 'fence' for stolen property." The government "will face demands for restitution for benefits received from now on as a result of MCI's fraudulent use of the networks of other phone companies," Mr. Barr wrote.
Senator Susan M. Collins, the Maine Republican who heads the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, urged the General Services Administration to consider the latest accusations as part of its review of whether to suspend MCI from future business.
"These latest allegations, if they are true, suggest a pattern of fraud that continues to this very day," Ms. Collins said. "If that proves to be true, that's very troubling because MCI has repeatedly argued that it has cleaned house and reformed its business practices and is worthy of future and present government contracts."
SBC Communications, meanwhile, said that it was repeatedly rebuffed when it tried to put the new management team of MCI on notice over the last year of potential problems with recovering access fees.
In one letter sent last July to John Sidgmore, who was named the temporary chief executive of MCI -- formerly WorldCom -- after the company disclosed accounting fraud last summer, and two letters sent in April and last month to Mr. Capellas, SBC executives complained that MCI failed to account properly for long-distance calls and challenged the amount of money owed to SBC for handling them.
MCI responded to the first letter by saying it would look into the matter and to the second letter by saying that it was amenable to resolving the dispute through settlement. The third letter, sent June 12 after SBC had new evidence that it says indicates calls may have been fraudulently diverted, never received a response.
"The letters show that the new leadership, Mr. Sidgmore and subsequently Mr. Capellas, were put on notice that there were significant irregularities and potential fraud related to the calls that we were completing for them," said James D.Ellis, the general counsel of SBC. "They were put on notice that this was not simply an issue that related to the old regime but was an ongoing issue. This was a matter of very serious concern."
Brad Burns, an MCI spokesman, said that SBC and MCI last week settled all claims arising from calls made before the bankruptcy for a $68 million payment.
The federal investigation began in May, when a whistle-blower who had worked at MCI and other phone companies contacted the F.B.I. to express concerns that domestic MCI phone calls, including those placed by government officials, were being diverted, the whistle-blower said in a sworn statement provided to investigators. After not hearing back from the F.B.I. for several days, the whistle-blower said, he took his information to Verizon, which then presented it to investigators in the United States attorney's office in Manhattan.
According to the sworn statement by the whistle-blower, which was provided on condition that his identity not be disclosed, the scheme was national in scope and involved two separate ways to avoid access costs. 
In one scheme, MCI signed contracts with small local phone companies that would receive the calls, change the billing codes to make it appear that they were local rather than long distance, and complete them, according to the statement. The local companies would then receive "a piece of the action," according to the statement, often about one-tenth of the normal access fee that MCI would otherwise have to pay.
One of the first companies used in the scheme, according to the statement, was Hickory Telephone, a small company near Pittsburgh.
Grier Adamson, the treasurer of Hickory Telephone, said today that the company had not heard from investigators and that it had never disguised long-distance calls to make them appear to be local.
"That is a fraudulent statement," said Mr. Adamson, who said he had worked at the company for 25 years. "I don't know what they are talking about. We never disguised traffic to be anything other than what it is."
In a second scheme, described in the sworn statement and in AT&T's filing with the federal bankruptcy court as the "Canadian gateway project," MCI's domestic phone calls would be redirected to Canada and then sent back down on an AT&T line so that AT&T would have to pay the access charges. AT&T said today that among the calls that were redirected were those placed by Wells Fargo Bank, an important customer that AT&T lost to MCI.
In the sworn statement, the whistle-blower said that the Canadian gateway project was planned by MCI and Onvoy, a Minnesota telephone company.
"They clearly know they are defrauding AT&T," the whistle-blower said in his statement, referring to senior executives at Onvoy. "The attitude within Onvoy is, 'AT&T is a big dumb behemoth and they don't know what is happening to them.' It was expressed that this arrangement needs to be kept a secret."
According to the statement, Onvoy would pass the calls up to the Manitoba Telephone System, which changed the billing codes "to indicate falsely that the traffic is of Canadian origin." The whistle-blower said that Onvoy had initially approached Bell Canada but that Bell Canada "was nervous about doing manipulation of point codes; that is why Onvoy got Manitoba Telephone System involved."
Onvoy issued a statement by Charles Berkowitz, the company's chief marketing officer, acknowledging that it had received a request for information from the Justice Department last Wednesday. The company said it did not change codes on any calls that ran through its network.
The statement said that the "telecommunications traffic is not routed on an efficiency basis, i.e., the shortest distance between two points, but on an economical basis, i.e., least cost routing."
Manitoba Telephone System declined to comment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael D. Capellas, chief executive of MCI, said the company would investigate charges that it improperly diverted phone traffic. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); ETHICS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); ACCOUNTING (66%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (54%) VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS; AT&T CORP; MCI COMMUNICATIONS INC; SBC COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) LABATON, STEPHEN; CAPELLAS, MICHAEL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003 



690 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
B.Y.O.B., Hungry Restaurateurs Say

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
RESTAURANTS with big investments in wine do not normally encourage customers to carry in their own. To discourage them, they charge a fee called corkage -- as much as $75 a bottle in some places, ostensibly for just pulling the cork.
 But when there are no customers, the rules change. These are lean times in the restaurant business, what with the economic downturn and the falloff in tourism, and tables go empty most nights in the best of places. Accordingly, a handful of restaurants in New York and elsewhere are actually encouraging their wine-loving clientele to B.Y.O.B. -- bring your (well, their) own bottles. 
 At Montrachet, in TriBeCa, Monday nights are corkage-free; at Beacon, in Midtown, there is no corkage on Sunday; and at Cafe Atlas, on Central Park South, corkage has been dropped every night until September. At Della Femina, in East Hampton, there is no corkage on Monday and Tuesday nights for patrons who come in with a bottle of Long Island wine. Charlie Palmer, of Aureole in New York, charges no corkage fee on American wines at his new place, Charlie Palmer Steak in Washington. Mr. Palmer's California restaurant in Healdsburg, in Sonoma County, imposes no corkage fee on Sonoma wines.
French and French-oriented restaurants suffered an additional blow when the war in Iraq soured relations between this country and France. Montrachet, American-owned and American-staffed but French in spirit and wine list, is one of them. "We took a huge hit during the anti-French period," said Drew Nieporent, an owner. "The damage is probably irreparable for this year."
Corkage-free Mondays are helping ease the pain. "Monday business is booming," said Daniel Johnnes, the restaurant's wine director, "and people are bringing in fantastic wines -- older negociant Burgundies from the 50's and 60's, rare first-growth Bordeaux. We had one group do their own tasting of 2000 Bordeaux."
"The spirit in the place is amazing," he added. "Everyone talks to everyone else, and they wander from table to table, sharing." The Monday customers are mostly sophisticated wine drinkers, Mr. Johnnes said with evident relief. "I was afraid that when we announced this thing, we'd get people coming in with a bottle of Two-Buck Chuck. It hasn't happened."
During the rest of the week, Montrachet's corkage fee is $25 a bottle. At Cafe Atlas, the regular corkage charge is $20. "We see quite a few old customers, wine collectors, coming back," said the sommelier, Corey Lynch. "We're glad to give them this summer break."
At Beacon, Waldy Malouf, the chef and an owner, said the Sunday program evolved from an earlier effort to promote large-format bottles. "We had collected a lot of large bottles -- magnums, double magnums -- and they weren't selling," Mr. Malouf said. "So we started pouring them by the glass on Sundays. It was a success, and we ran out. When a customer asked if he could bring his own in, we started the no-corkage promotion. It's been great."
In East Hampton, Jerry Della Femina described the wine policy at his namesake restaurant as "a win-win situation" because it encourages people to visit local wineries and it attracts people into his restaurant. "Then there is the power of suggestion," he said. "People see Long Island wines on the tables, and immediately they want it, too." Mr. Della Femina said he was putting small signs in the wineries, telling visitors about his no-corkage program.
Similarly, Mr. Palmer sees his no-corkage effort in California as a partnership with the Sonoma vintners. "When tourists buy a bottle of wine at one of the tasting rooms, they know they can bring it here for lunch," he said. At the same time, visitors who stop first at his restaurant, Dry Creek Kitchen in the Hotel Healdsburg, learn that it might pay the next time to go to one of the wineries ahead of time.
The restaurants' only expenses with a no-corkage program are for labor and glasses.
"Some people bring in 12 or 15 wines," Mr. Johnnes said, which makes it tough on the sommelier. "We will supply two or three glasses. Beyond that, you're somewhat on your own. We can't change them, so rinse them out and use them again."
Inevitably, the staff can lose a substantial part of its tips when patrons show up with their own wine. "True," Mr. Johnnes said, "but when the place was almost empty on Monday nights, there were hardly any tips at all."
Some restaurateurs have no corkage fees because they don't want or permit anyone to bring in their own wine. Neither Daniel nor Alain Ducasse, two of New York's best-known French restaurants, allow customers to bring wine. A spokeswoman for Daniel cited "time, effort and capital, not to mention space," among the reasons Daniel Boulud allows no one to bring bottles into his famous Park Avenue restaurant. Then she added: "Well, there is one exception. He lets Robert Parker bring his wines." Robert M. Parker Jr. is a prominent wine critic and an avid fan of Mr. Boulud.
Tim Zagat, publisher of the restaurant guides that bear his name, is a strong supporter of no-corkage programs but is not optimistic that they will increase. "Not when you realize how much restaurants make on wine," he said. "The markups are huge. Our survey a few years ago showed that some of these restaurants take markups that are 9 or 10 times what they paid for the wine."
In fact, while Mr. Zagat's 2003 guide to New York restaurants cites 128 with "winning wine lists," it mentions only 29, mostly Asian, with a bring-your-own-bottle, no-corkage-fee policy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by John Hendrix) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); WINE (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (50%) Restaurants; Wines; Alcoholic Beverages

PERSON: Frank J Prial

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



691 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2445 words

HEADLINE: Up North: Michigan's Flavorful Vacationland 

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: EAST JORDAN, Mich. 

 BODY:
WHEN he was a boy, Ernest Hemingway spent his summers in this remote rural dominion, where Lake Michigan curls around to meet Lake Huron.
 Here Hemingway's literary alter ego, Nick Adams (and perhaps he himself) talked of the Giants and the Cardinals, debated the merits of Chesterton and Walpole, cooked buckwheat pancakes over campfires, hunted for mushrooms, caught trout with grasshoppers as bait and shot ruffed grouse ("there was the whirring noise of wings as large brown birds burst out of the willows"). He described it as "the last good country." 
 Like many things about the Midwest, it is more or less a secret to people from the East and West Coasts, and the local gentry like things that way. "We have a little piece of paradise here, and we don't want to see it overrun," said Ken Winter, the editor and publisher of The Petoskey News-Review. 
It has no proper geographical name. Michiganders call it Up North.
But it has a thriving food culture, much to the delight of those who flock here every July and August from Detroit, Chicago, St. Louis, Cincinnati, New Orleans and other cities, fleeing muggy summer streets for the soft breezes and sparkling waters that await them in resort towns like Petoskey, Charlevoix, Harbor Springs and Leland. Many of them belong to families that have summered here for three or four generations.
In the final weeks of July, cherries are harvested -- shaken by powerful machines from the well-formed little trees on which they grow, then chilled in spring water and rushed to canning and freezing plants while their piercing flavor and ruby-red or garnet-purple skins are intact. At roadside stands, you can buy not only sweet cherries but occasionally the juicier, deliciously tart Montmorencies, which are much too fragile to be shipped any great distance, and the more robust Balaton morellos, recently introduced from Hungary.
A casual midsummer visitor might think that food hereabouts begins and ends with cherries. He might well arrive at Traverse City's Cherry Capital Airport, visit the Cherry Hut restaurant in Beulah to taste its famous cherry pie and cruise down Cherry Bend Road. He will be assaulted by mostly hand-lettered signs promoting the roadside fruit stands, which are inevitably decked with American flags.
Driving around the area not long ago, my wife, Betsey, and I made a mental collection of such signs, like kids counting out-of-state license plates. Our favorite advertised "Donuts, Sweet Cherries, Piano Lessons."
Amon Orchards in Acme sells the most luscious cherry jam I know. "It's just lots of fresh, mature fruit," the owner, David Amon, told me, "with as little pectin and Michigan beet sugar as possible, cooked fast and hot to retain flavor, in five-gallon batches." Worried that dietary concerns will put people off cherry pie, Mr. Amon has been looking for ways to "take away the goo." Among the improbable results: cherry mustard and cherry barbecue sauce.
But important as cherries are to the state's economy -- it leads the country in total production most years, with about 250 million pounds -- they are just one among many culinary treasures of northwest Michigan. Each spring, clumps of morels grow in forests of maple, beech and ash. Lake Michigan (the big lake, as the locals call it), the hundreds of little lakes and the dozens of streams yield whitefish, walleye, salmon (introduced from the Pacific), steelhead, and brook, brown and rainbow trout in profusion. Game abounds, too -- deer, mallard, hare, woodcock and Hemingway's grouse.
Many of the leading figures on the food scene Up North gathered one recent Saturday evening for the annual orchard blowout at an old blue-and-white farmhouse owned by Julia and Charles Eisendrath. Mr. Eisendrath, who runs the Knight-Wallace Fellows journalism program in Ann Arbor during the school year, is an intrepid hunter and fisherman when away from his desk.
He served his guests quail, duck, speckle-bellied goose, caribou and caribou sausage, which he cooked over a cherrywood fire on a grill of his own invention. Built to last a lifetime or two, it is called the Grillery, and Mr. Eisendrath will sell you one for a not exactly negligible sum.
For a significant number of those on hand, I found, food is a second career. Justin Rashid, a former actor, runs American Spoon Foods in Petoskey in partnership with the New York restaurateur Larry Forgione, turning local fruits into preserves, ice creams, condiments and other products. Bob Pisor, a former reporter and press secretary, whom I first encountered as a war correspondent in Vietnam, turns out some of the Midwest's finest bread at Stone House Bakery in Traverse City. William R. Sherman, a former diplomat who served in West Africa, heads Burnette Foods, a large-scale local cherry processor.
Running 24 hours a day during harvest season, Burnette's Elk Rapids plant cranks out 14 million cans of cherries in five weeks.
THE region's epicenter, gastronomically speaking, is Tapawingo in the hamlet of Ellsworth, which may be the best restaurant anywhere in the country that's a four-hour drive from the closest major city. It is the creation of another career-swappper, Harlan Peterson, known as Pete, a North Dakotan who left a good job as an auto designer for Ford to move to the North Woods.
Tapawingo, set amid gardens of rudbeckia and giant alliums, overlooking a crystalline lake reflecting stands of firs, will celebrate its 20th anniversary in May. It has evolved from a modest if excellent regional restaurant into a place of international stature, serving focused, sophisticated dishes like a bracingly refreshing cold melon soup with a kaffir lime and chili ice. Main courses run to items like a rack of rabbit with veal sweetbreads, spaetzle and mustard greens, and seared sea scallops with an English pea emulsion, golden tomatoes and bacon.
For desert, there are devilish temptations like a cherry napoleon, an apricot tarte Tatin and a lemon verbena ice cream so good that it must have come, as Ms. Eisendrath said, "from another planet."
Mr. Peterson's chef, Stuart Brioza, 28, who grew up in Cupertino, Calif., near the legendary Ridge vineyards, was chosen this year by Food & Wine magazine as one of the best new chefs in the United States. With his uncanny ability to synthesize elements of Asian and Mediterranean cuisines in a style that remains thoroughly American, and a particular gift for balancing strong flavors, I think he will be one of the best chefs in America, full stop, in just a few years.
His restless spontaneity is matched by that of his colleague, Nicole Krasinski, who makes not only the desserts but also the bread. And no less imagination is brought to bear on the wine list by Ron Edwards, the sommelier, who oversees a 6,000-bottle cellar comprising some 650 vintages. Who would have thought, a decade ago, that you could find, just off a Michigan country road, a dozen champagnes, a dozen German rieslings, two dozen Montrachets, Margaux and Ducru and Latour, not to mention Grange and Harlan Estate and assorted gems from Austria, Italy and Spain?
A dozen smaller trees rise alongside the mighty trunk of Tapawingo. Among the old-timers are the Rowe, also in Ellsworth, where Mr. Peterson did his training under Wes Westhoven; La Becasse, an outpost of France in Burdickville; and the yellow-walled dining room of the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island. The hotel, built in 1887 of Michigan white pine, has a 660-foot veranda, a Sunday buffet table very nearly as long and charming Jamaican waiters.
Less venerable are Hattie's in Suttons Bay, which serves a memorable morel cream sauce, and Tuma's on Torch Lake, a cottagey establishment perfect for lingering over coffee to watch the Technicolor late-evening summer sunsets.
Friends would flog me if I forgot the Bluebird in Leland, a bright, simple place that has specialized in tasty deep-fried whitefish and French fries, the fish and chips of this part of the country, since 1923. My colleague Bill Schmidt, a Michigander through and through, once told me that on cold, dark nights during his assignment to Moscow two decades ago, he "dreamed of heaven, consisting of long summer afternoons at the Bluebird, with a bucket of smelts, an ice-cold Stroh's drunk straight from the bottle and the Tigers on TV."
Kurt Luedtke, the journalist-turned-screenwriter who won an Academy Award for "Out of Africa," favors the surf-and-turf at Art's in Glen Arbor: a quarter-pound of batter-fried smelt and a hamburger, for $2.75. "Art's is listed in the phone book and on its only two legal documents as Art's Tavern," Mr. Luedtke reports, "which substantially overstates the matter." Regulars call it Mary's, and the owner is named Tim.
East Jordan, whose ironworks makes many of the country's manhole covers and fire hydrants, used to have one of the area's best breakfasts, a skilletful of eggs, potatoes, cheese, bacon and sausage. But the restaurant that cooked it, the Round Table, known to some as the Cloggery because of the artery-blocking propensities of its fare, unexpectedly shut down early this month. Now the best the town offers by way of prole food is a monster burrito.
NORTHWEST MICHIGAN is full of surprises, not least the emergence of a full-fledged wine industry, with 43 wineries, concentrated on the Leelanau and Old Mission Peninsulas north of Traverse City, where winds blowing across Lake Michigan protect the vines from frost in winter and cool them in summer. According to Charles Cook, the superintendent of the Michigan State Fair wine competition, wine recently passed snowmobiling as a revenue generator here.
Too far north, you say? Much too cold? Not really. The 45th Parallel cuts through the vineyards here, as it does through the Willamette Valley in Oregon, the Medoc and Hermitage regions of France, and Piemonte in Italy -- several of the world's very best wine-producing areas.
At the suggestion of Madeleine Triffon, the state's leading sommelier, I visited three vineyards, producing what she termed "the kinds of wines people like a lot because of their intrinsic quality, not just because they're made in Michigan": L. Mawby, a sparkling wine specialist; Peninsula Cellars, which produces outstanding dry and semidry rieslings; and Black Star.
Black Star is a lavish operation on a former horse farm, with vines planted in a natural amphitheater reminiscent of Italy and a white-porticoed inn (where we ate a delectable breakfast built around potato nests and, you guessed it, cherry-smoked bacon). Among its products are fine, hand-crafted cheeses -- an herb-and-garlic-flavored fromage blanc and a firm, nutty Swiss-style raclette, both made by Michigan-born, Swiss-trained John Hoyt and his French wife, Anne Maillet, in a small, glass-walled area off the wine-tasting room.
The top wines, I thought, were the light, high-acid but still properly earthy and peppery 2000 Arcturos pinot noir and the sensational 2000 A Capella Riesling Ice Wine, made from grapes left on the vine long after the normal harvest and, in this case, picked in a fierce December snowstorm.
In addition, Black Star distills clear, traditional European-style eaux de vie, a rarity in this country, heretofore made only in Oregon and California. Pears, grapes, apricots and damson plums are used for these fragrant, luxurious spirits, as well as cherries (with the pits), as in kirschwasser.
Donald Coe, the managing partner, helped start Black Star after retiring from Allied Domecq Spirits and Wine, having spent summers here for 30 years. He and his team -- including Lee Lutes, the winemaker, who once worked at Union Square Cafe in New York -- approach their work with evangelistic zeal, bent on showing that value-added agriculture can succeed in Leelanau County. After investing $7 million, the owners hope to break even this year.
"I don't plan to take any money out," Mr. Coe explained when I expressed skepticism. "I see this as a kind of exhibition farm, devoted to the preservation of the countryside. If we don't show the farmers a new approach to agriculture, all the land around here will end up as subdivisions."
L. Mawby is, in fact, Larry Mawby, a jolly, bearded local boy made good, who produces some of the best sparkling wine between the Coasts, notably the fastidious, creamy 1997 Mille, with 53 months' aging on the yeast. "Here in the Midwest," he said, "we pronounce that Millie." His goal is to make something in a league with Roederer Estate's classy Anderson Valley sparklers.
Peninsula shows its wines in a little red schoolhouse, and the proprietor, David Kroupa, is as modest as a country schoolteacher. Having won regional, national and international awards for his rieslings last year, he is about ready to uproot some of his other varietals and concentrate on that one.
"I guess it makes pretty good wine -- at least for up here," he told me.
Mr. Pisor's bread, especially his chewy sourdough, modeled on Lionel Poilane's discus-shaped Parisian loaves, and his "all-crust, no crumb" garlic fougasse, are another welcome surprise. So are the Illy coffee bar, the magnificent wines and the packaged foods (Charlie Trotter sauces, Dufour puff pastry, flavored sea salts from Marseilles) at Pram and Suzanne Acharya's new shop, Esperance, in Charlevoix. And so is the superb smoked freshwater fish, including chub, an all-but-forgotten childhood treat, at Carlson's in Leland, which has been in the same family for five generations.
Most welcome of all are the clear, distinct, intense flavors of the ice cream at Mr. Rashid's new Gelato Cafe, next to his retail outlet in Petoskey. Eating a cone of his spearmint chocolate chip is like chewing a leaf freshly plucked from the herb garden.
I asked Mr. Rashid why he came here. For the quality of the fruit, both cultivated and wild, like thimbleberries and marionberries, he replied. But he conceded that it was something more than that.
"I'm like a lot of people," he said. "We all come here as children and fall in love with it. It becomes part of your psyche. After living somewhere else for a while, you say, 'I'm not happy here. Where was I happy?' And pretty soon you're back."
Gloria Whalen, the young people's author who won a National Book Award in 2000 for "Homeless Bird," has lived for almost 30 years on Oxbow Lake, southeast of here, enchanted by the region, she said, because "you can move with ease between civilization and isolation, between the sophisticated and the rural worlds."
But like many here, she worries that it may prove ephemeral. "It may be getting away from us," she said. "Traverse City is becoming a real city instead of a pretend city. They just built a new parking garage."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about the food culture of northwestern Michigan misstated the price of the surf-and-turf combination of fried smelt and a hamburger at Art's Tavern in Glen Arbor. It is $7.25, not $2.75.
An article and picture captions on July 30 about the food culture of northwestern Michigan referred imprecisely to the location of a bakery owned by Bob Pisor and misstated part of its name. The company is Stone House Bread, not Stone House Bakery; while it has a production plant in Traverse City, the retail store, which was pictured, is in Leland. A letter from the bakery dated Aug. 10 alerting the Dining section to the errors was misdirected at The Times.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MIDWESTERN TASTES -- Pear-in-the-bottle brandy from the Black Star winery. Top, a feast in an orchard, given by Charles and Julia Eisendrath, local food gentry.; THE LAKE EFFECT -- Stone House Bread in Traverse City, Mich., above; Stuart Brioza, left, the chef at Tapawingo in Ellsworth, where yogurt mousse, above left, is a dessert. (Photographs by John Robert Williams for The New York Times)(pg. F1); CHERRIES AND BEYOND -- Northern Michigan, a food lover's delight. 1. Bob Pisor, owner of the Stone House Bakery in Traverse City. 2. L. Mawby makes sparkling wines in Suttons Bay. 3. Bluebird Restaurant in Leland. 4. Cherry-cream cheese coffee cake at Amon Orchards in Acme. 5. Gelato at American Spoon Foods in Petoskey. 6. Plenty of meat on the grill at the Eisendrath picnic. 7. Amon Orchards helps cherry pickers. 8. Slaws and more at the Eisendraths'. Below, Mr. Pisor's license plate. (Photographs by John Robert Williams for The New York Times)(pg. F4) Map of Michigan highlighting Traverse City. (pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (86%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); BIRDS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (50%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Food; Wines

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%)

PERSON: R W Jr Apple

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) MICHIGAN, USA (98%); LAKE HURON (92%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); HUNGARY (53%) Petoskey (Mich); Charlevoix (Mich); Harbor Springs (Mich); Leland (Mich); Michigan

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



692 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Better Results Are Reported By Fujitsu And Sharp 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 29 

 BODY:
Two of Japan's largest electronics companies, Fujitsu and the Sharp Corporation, reported improved results in the April-to-June quarter, confirming early signs of a turnaround in demand for some semiconductors and consumer products.
 The reports, however, reflected the very different state of two sectors of that market. Sharp, which makes camera phones, flat-panel TV sets and other hot consumer electronics, increased its earnings and sales. But Fujitsu, which relies on business computers and telecommunications equipment, only narrowed its loss as sales slipped, hampered by the lack of business spending in the global economy. 
 The signs of recovery suggest that Japanese companies are starting to benefit from similar upturns seen in the United States. While the market is far from robust, Japanese semiconductor manufacturers are seeing improved demand for chips used in cellular phones and audiovisual products.
That upturn has helped offset losses elsewhere, particularly in telecommunications equipment. 
Fujitsu, the largest maker of business computers in Japan, is also realizing some benefits from cost-cutting started nearly two years ago.
In the first three months of Japan's fiscal year, which began on April 1, Fujitsu lost 39.8 billion yen ($332 million), compared with a 56.4 billion yen loss in the period a year ago. Sales fell 4.5 percent, to 938.7 billion yen ($7.83 billion).
Sharp, which is more reliant on consumer electronics that are growing strongly, said net profits grew 13.5 percent, to 14 billion yen ($116.7 million) in the April-June quarter. Sales jumped 7.2 percent, thanks to strong demand for Sharp's flat-panel televisions and mobile phones equipped with cameras.
Still, problems remain. Fujitsu widened its estimated loss for the first six months of the fiscal year by 25 percent, to 50 billion yen ($417 million), because of damage to its semiconductor operations in northern Japan after earthquakes there in May. The larger loss sent shares of Fujitsu lower in trading in Tokyo today. The company said the recent earthquake had no effect on its production.
Fujitsu and other electronics makers are also having difficulty increasing profits because of competition from rivals in South Korea, Taiwan and elsewhere. This has limited the ability of chip makers to raise prices even though demand for high-end semiconductors has improved.
"Semiconductor prices have stabilized, but they are still not rising much," said Yoshiharu Izumi, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities in Tokyo. "The flash memory market is expanding, but the competition is still tough."
Fujitsu's chief financial officer, Masamichi Ogura, went one step further, saying he was uncertain whether spending on technology has recovered. Like many other high-technology vendors, Fujitsu has been hurt by the decline in corporate investment in servers and other computer equipment, especially in the United States.
There are tentative signs that spending in the United States is starting to pick up, however.
With this in mind, Fujitsu kept its full-year profit and sales targets unchanged. The company still expects to earn 30 billion yen ($250 million).
Sharp, which caters to the consumer electronics market, has benefited from strong demand for cellphones and for televisions with liquid-crystal displays. Sharp also posted a 71 percent increase in sales of integrated chips used in these products.
But it, too, must battle Samsung Electronics and other competitors overseas, who are cutting prices to compete. At home, its dominance in the camera handset market is also under attack from the NEC Corporation and others. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); MICROPROCESSORS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); MEMORY CHIPS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: SHARP CORP (93%); FUJITSU LTD (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FUJITSU LTD; SHARP CORP 

TICKER: 6753 (TSE) (93%); FUJ (LSE) (92%); 6702 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



693 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Thai Vice King's Lament: Police Don't Stay Bought 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
The sheer injustice. Nobody had worked harder to pay off the police with wine, women, wristwatches and sacks full of cash. And now this.
 "I'm like a mad dog now and I'll bite anyone," said Chuwit Kamolvisit, the owner of six industrial-size massage parlors who is proud to be known as Thailand's sex tycoon. 
 "I used to buy whole trays of Rolex watches for police officers," he said in one of his almost daily news conferences. "I used to carry cash in black plastic bags for them. But they are still harassing me." 
In the dim netherworld of Thailand's black economy, it is hard to know just who is doing what to whom. But somehow Mr. Chuwit seems to have lost his immunity and the tell-all ruckus he is raising has the country transfixed.
All at once, after 10 years of bribes that he says added up to $2.5 million, Mr. Chuwit has been accused of involvement in the midnight bulldozing of a rival's entertainment plaza and of procuring underage girls to perform what is politely called massage. 
That is not how it's supposed to work. If a corrupt society is to function smoothly, each party has to do its part. The protectors have to protect.
Play fast and loose, and a sex tycoon with bright shirts, a thin mustache and darting eyes could start shaking out your pockets.
"I have donated items for their comfort, including tables and chairs, not to mention computers and refrigerators," Mr. Chuwit told delighted local reporters.
Also car maintenance, home repair, boxing tickets, golf memberships, bowling and, of course, free pleasure at Victoria's Secret, Honolulu, Hi-Class, Emmanuelle, Copacabana and Sea of Love.
None of this comes as a surprise to anybody.
Corruption is so thoroughly entwined in public life here that if it were pulled up by the roots, society might fall apart.
"Most Thais, from the wealthiest businessman to the poorest street beggar, have close personal experience of police corruption," the daily Bangkok Post said in a recent editorial.
Scholars who study this kind of thing say the country's illegal economy -- drugs, gambling, prostitution, protection and human trafficking -- is as much as one-third the size of the mainstream legal economy.
So the daily Chuwit show is not so much a scandal in Thailand as an entertainment. 
Holding news conferences, waving his arms, kneeling in prayer, sealing his mouth with masking tape, claiming to have been kidnapped by police officers and then rolling on the ground to show reporters how it happened -- Mr. Chuwit, it turns out, is a one-man entertainment venue all by himself.
"He's selling a lot of newspapers," wrote a columnist with the pseudonym Chang Noi in the English-language daily The Nation. "He's raising the ratings on the evening news. We want to know what he'll reveal next. We want to know if he's still alive. This is one helluva show, folks. This is reality TV, Thai style."
Mr. Chuwit may not be naming names -- not yet -- but he is tossing around broad hints in what one paper said had become a sort of national quiz show.
There is the greedy police station commander whose name begins with T, the "tall commander" who owns stakes in two massage parlors and the man named S who took $5 million to gamble in Macao and turned up dead.
There are Inspector T, Captain S and Deputy Noon who took regular kickbacks, and there are the four unidentified police colonels who visited the Copacabana and enjoyed the free services of masseuses No. 107, 130, 137 and 299.
By the way, there are also three cabinet members, whose names begin with S, P and P, who are regular visitors and receive expensive cases of wine.
Not me, Deputy Interior Minister Pracha Maleenont quickly said. He may have visited massage parlors in the past, but he gave that up long ago.
All of this was pocket change compared with Mr. Chuwit's dealings with a police station in District H, where he said monthly payoffs followed a regular formula. 
Two thousand dollars went to the superintendent, he said, $1,250 to deputy superintendents in crime suppression, $500 to deputy superintendents in investigation and $250 to deputy superintendents in the traffic division.
Inspectors pocketed $85 and deputy inspectors $50, he said, which is not bad for a Thai civil servant.
Altogether, Mr. Chuwit said, he was paying the police $300,000 a month to stay in business. "I was willing to pay, and they gladly obliged."
People don't write receipts for this sort of thing and Mr. Chuwit admitted the other day that "I don't have any real proof" -- Heidi Fleiss without a little black book.
But that didn't seem to matter. The time had come for government leaders to voice their shock at this evidence of corruption.
"I will give them my final word: shape up or ship out," said Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, himself a former police lieutenant colonel who is now a telecommunications tycoon.
If there is not enough evidence to prove legal guilt, he said, he will discipline the accused officers on the basis of Mr. Chuwit's allegations. Furthermore, he said, the entire force at police station H should be transferred to what he called "lower income stations," presumably in districts with fewer massage parlors.
The national police chief, Sant Sarutanond, offered a curious defense of his officers' probity, saying he was sure that "more than half" of them were honest.
In this see-no-evil society, where prostitution is illegal and ubiquitous, it is common for men to sit back after a good meal, stretch and say, "Let's go have a bath."
According to the National Police, there are 103 registered massage parlors in Bangkok, each employing 100 to 500 women -- although in Thailand statistics like that often don't mean much.
In all the current fuss, the actual goings-on inside Mr. Chuwit's pleasure palaces have not become an issue. But some lucky reporters from The Bangkok Post were assigned to take a look. They discovered that many of the women who worked there -- those with "beauty and erotic skills" -- earned a great deal more than they did.
Two hours in a midlevel parlor might cost $30 to $40, they found. Upscale parlors charge $85, with half of the money going to the masseuse, plus tips.
Among the people most upset by Mr. Chuwit's allegations was the deputy director general of the Excise Department, Wichit Wongwiwat.
"The department cannot tolerate reports that the tax we collect is lower than the money paid to the police," he said.
Evidently taking a page from the police playbook, he said he would assign 13 teams of inspectors to investigate the city's massage parlors and, as he put it, "try the services offered."
"I must admit, this is new for the department," he said.
One recent Saturday, desperately seeking ways to get Mr. Chuwit to stop talking, officers from the crime suppression division of the police tried without success to have him arrested for slander.
Mr. Chuwit, pretty expert at this by now, fired back right away. Every month, he said, he was paying the crime suppression division $400 in bribes, and he gave the initial of the lieutenant colonel he said had been taking the money.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chuwit Kamolvisit, a Bangkok massage-parlor tycoon, detailing the monthly bribes he says he paid the police to leave him alone. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); PROSTITUTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MASSAGE SERVICES (77%); SCANDALS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (74%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (73%); SEX TRAFFICKING (72%); TRENDS (72%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (71%); WRITERS (69%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); PANHANDLING (61%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (60%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BRIBERY; PROSTITUTION; MASSAGE PARLORS 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (53%)

PERSON: CHUWIT KAMOLVISIT; MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%) THAILAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



694 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Fall on Steep Drop in Consumer Confidence Index

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
An unexpected and sharp decline in consumer confidence jolted Wall Street yesterday, sending stocks lower on investor fears of a stumbling economy in the months ahead.
 Analysts said investors were disappointed but largely willing to wait for other economic reports this week before selling off too aggressively. 
 "This is a heavy week for statistics," said Janet Engels, senior vice president and director for the private client research group at RBC Dain Rauscher. "These numbers are critical to breaking out of our current trading range." 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 62.05 points, or 0.7 percent, at 9,204.46, having lost 18 points on Monday. Earlier in the day, the Dow showed a loss of as much as 98 points.
The broader market also finished lower. The Nasdaq composite index lost 3.99 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,731.37. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.24 points, or 0.7 percent, to 989.28.
The Conference Board, a private research group, reported that its consumer confidence index slid to 76.6 in July from 83.5 in the previous month, amid consumer jitters about rising unemployment. Analysts had expected a reading of 85.0. The index is closely watched because consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of the domestic economy.
The decline in July was the largest decrease since February, when confidence dropped 14 points, to 64.8, as consumers were bracing for a conflict in Iraq.
"Consumer confidence came out and took the steam out of everything," said Peter Dunay, chief market strategist at Wall Street Access. "It all boils down to concerns about unemployment."
"We are a consumer-driven economy, and if they can't find jobs, they can't spend," Mr. Dunay said.
Rumors that American forces had captured Saddam Hussein helped minimize losses. In Iraq, American forces arrested a bodyguard who rarely left Mr. Hussein's side, feeding speculation on Wall Street that the former dictator was in custody. The Dow rose as much as 23 points before losing momentum in the late afternoon.
While stocks have rallied in recent months, investors are now looking for evidence that the economy is firmly on track. Several reports this week, including the gross domestic product tomorrow and employment on Friday, are expected to give the market a clearer direction after weeks of choppy trading.
Tyco International fell 75 cents, to $19, after it swung to a profit in its fiscal third quarter. The company, which has been hit by charges of accounting fraud, also filed restated financial results dating back to 1998 that did not affect current earnings.
DuPont declined 42 cents, to $43.97, after reporting an increase in second-quarter earnings that easily beat Wall Street's expectations.
Verizon Communications lost 58 cents, to $35.40, after notching quarterly profits that were a penny higher than analysts' forecasts.
Gainers included McDonald's, which rose 89 cents, to $22.15, after reporting quarterly earnings in line with analysts' estimates.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Reuters)
Treasury bond prices tumbled yesterday, pushing yields to one-year highs, as the market's failure to rally on soft economic data frustrated even the most ardent bond bulls.
Treasuries tried to bounce early in the session after the Conference Board reported a surprise slump in its index of consumer sentiment to 76.6 in July from 83.5 in June.
But mortgage-related selling quickly put an end to the advance and investors were soon squeezed out of positions as benchmark yields, which rise when prices fall, rose past Monday's highs of around 4.32 percent.
By late in the day, the price of the 10-year note dropped 1 5/32, to 93 17/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, jumped to 4.45 percent from 4.29 percent on Monday.
And the 30-year bond lost 1 24/32, to 100 16/32. Its yield climbed to 5.34 percent from 5.22 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a four-week bill:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.925
High Rate: 0.970
Coupon Yield: 0.981
Low Rate: 0.940
Median Rate: 0.960
Total applied for: $46,379,724
Accepted: $22,642,894
Noncompetitive: $42,893

The four-week bills mature Aug. 28.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (69%); ARRESTS (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); IRAQ WAR (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); ACCOUNTING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (72%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (72%); RY (SWX) (72%); RY (NYSE) (72%); TYC (NYSE) (51%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (51%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



695 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: At McDonald's, Profit Falls but Hope Rises 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation reported a 5 percent decline in second-quarter profit yesterday, largely because of one-time expenses like advertising, promotions and real estate expenditures that are a part of the company's turnaround strategy.
 But those expenses, along with significant improvement in the company's domestic business, resulted in a 1.2 percent rise in worldwide sales at restaurants open at least a year, the first increase since the third quarter of 2000. 
 The company also posted a 5 percent increase in same-store sales in the United States, the company's highest growth rate in that market in five years. 
"McDonald's is proving that it's fixable," said Mitchell J. Speiser, a restaurant analyst at Lehman Brothers. "It was a broken brand. Sales were down, and the image was tired. But it is showing that a brand like McDonald's can be revitalized."
For the second quarter, net income fell to $470.9 million, or 37 cents a share, from $497.5 million, or 39 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
The results met Wall Street's expectations, according to Thomson First Call.
Revenue increased 11 percent, to $4.3 billion from $3.9 billion.
Shares of McDonald's rose 89 cents yesterday, or about 4.2 percent, to $22.15.
The results were the first tangible signs of a recovery in the company's core business, where sales have lagged.
Much of the success in the company's United States business was caused by the introduction of products like a new line of salads with Newman's Own salad dressings and McGriddles, a breakfast sandwich. 
The company also credited its progress to enhancements in its customer service, fewer products and extended restaurant hours. The weak dollar also helped earnings, the company said.
"I'm very happy with a lot of things that have occurred to date," James R. Cantalupo, the chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts and investors, "but I'm not at the point where I'm declaring any victory in terms of a turnaround."
Despite the company's gains in the United States, it faces significant hurdles in several international markets. In the second quarter, sales in Britain continued to decline because of tough competition, and those in Germany were hurt by a weak economy.
In Japan, Taiwan and China, sales were soft in the wake of concerns about severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS.
In the coming months, McDonald's officials said, the company will continue to try to attract customers with new products. Many of them will be healthier alternatives to the company's basic fare, like chicken nuggets made entirely of white meat and milk-based drinks for children.
The company also plans to increase its advertising and marketing. It will start a game promotion with the Best Buy Company with Best Buy merchandise as prizes. A new advertising campaign aimed at young adults, mothers and children, featuring the slogan "I'm loving it," is set to begin in the third quarter.
Analysts said that while the second quarter yielded positive results, McDonald's still faced challenges.
"The real question is how much is sustainable and how much is more one-time product driven," said Janice L. Meyer, a restaurant analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. "If they can deliver the right product, the right message at the right price and right quality, the consumer will respond. They have to do all those things, which isn't always easy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: McDonald's said yesterday that it spent more money in the second quarter on advertising and promotions as part of its turnaround plan. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MARKETING PLAN (73%); US DOLLAR (69%); MILK (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (63%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (62%); SARS (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEWMAN'S OWN INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP 

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (75%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



696 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: About New York; 
Mexican, But the Dream Is American

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
WITH the weight of a day's labor in their step, they trudged along the baked Bronx pavement, through the evening heat. They turned down a concrete alley at one of those apartment buildings that loom over the Grand Concourse like man-eating Gargantuas and followed its path to the dank coolness of the utility room, where the meeting was to be held.
 Water pipes and utility meters decorated their makeshift conference room, and the furniture was more discarded than distressed. But the setting did not matter as much as the agenda, which was: 
 We have been residents of New York City for many years, yet we are outsiders. We are skilled laborers, yet we have little to show for our toil. We are proud men, yet our employers take advantage.
We are Mexican. What now?
It is the defining question of the immigrant, one that echoes through the memory of this city. We are Irish; we are Italian; we are Polish; we are Puerto Rican; we are Korean; we are Jamaican. We are New Yorkers. What now?
As it did for others before them, the intimation of an answer is revealing itself to some Mexican immigrants in the borough's Bedford Park section. The answer may be in the chrysalis stage, but the men seem to sense the unfolding of wings. Something about banding together, pooling resources, working by -- and for -- themselves. Something like that.
People who come without governmental blessing to this city from Puebla, or Guerrero, or Veracruz, often expect to return to Mexico after a few years. But Brother Joel Magallan, the director of an outreach program for Mexicans in New York, Asociacion Tepeyac, said that the rub of reality gradually erases those dreams, until all that remains is the naked question: "What am I going to do in Mexico?"
For a couple of years, the companion question -- what now? -- has vexed a few dozen Mexican men who belong to Our Lady of Mercy parish. Recently they began to meet outside the church to share desires that were like those of most other people: better lives for their children.
They realized that their days of sweating in garment district factories were behind them. Most of them were working in construction, with expertise in certain jobs. The resulting thought was, "We could build or fix up a house," one, Pedro Galaviz, explained. "I work inside. He works outside."
A few weeks ago, three dozen men agreed to start a construction business. Although they have not named the corporation or filed incorporation papers with the state, they have appointed corporate officers.
German Flores, the president, carries a piece of paper with the names and telephone numbers of his many partners. That they elected officers is a telling step, he said. "It means that we have gained enough trust among ourselves."
TRUST is the glue. As treasurer, Maximo Mendoza has been charged with collecting $25 each week from the members; he records payments in a spiral-bound book. He is also researching which bank is worthy of receiving the group's deposits, a decision that hinges in part on the conditions of loans that the men expect to take out once they have credit.
Mr. Mendoza had worked all day for a New Jersey construction company whose owner he has never met. Now he was talking enthusiastically about the future while sitting behind a discarded desk in a Bronx utility room, as a fan propped on a bucket stirred the tight air and two boys slurped juice boxes through straws. The boys, the sons of the group's vice president, Rodolfo Baez, listened in silence as adults around them gave voice to dreams.
"We have already had three meetings," said Mr. Mendoza, 30, who has lived in this city 13 years.
"I need something better for my family," said Jesus Valbuena, 25, who has nine years in this city.
"Now we're starting to work for ourselves: Mexicans!" said Mr. Galaviz, 34, who has eight years in this city.
It is possible that reality will rub away their enthusiasm. Robert C. Smith, a professor of sociology at Barnard College and an expert on the Mexican experience in New York, said that their venture requires "confianza": deep trust.
"There's a lot of things that could go wrong," he said. "What if the guy who's supposed to do the plumbing doesn't come through? You really have to trust each other."
So far, confianza remains intact in this corporation with no name. While two boys watched, each man reached into his pocket and pulled out $25. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TRENDS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); REFUGEES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BUSINESS INCORPORATIONS (63%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Building (Construction); Mexican-Americans; Economic Conditions and Trends; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Dan Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Mexico; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



697 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Panel Proposes Changes for National Institutes of Health 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29 

 BODY:
A committee authorized by Congress to examine the structure of the National Institutes of Health came out today against any wholesale merging of its many branches but suggested making the agency's director more powerful and re-examining the "special status" of the National Cancer Institute, which now operates semiautonomously.
 The committee suggested creating a pool of research money that the director of the health institutes could use to cut across disciplinary lines to push "risky but highly innovative projects." It called for setting aside 5 percent of the National Institutes of Health budget for research into subjects that cross the lines that divide the different institutes, like obesity. 
 The agency has grown to include 27 institutes and centers. Harold T. Shapiro, a Princeton University professor of economics and public affairs, who was the chairman of the committee, said there were concerns that its sprawling structure "had either fragmented the agency or made it too unwieldy to effectively address the research challenges now emerging on the biomedical frontier." 
In particular, the 20-member committee urged the re-examination of the National Cancer Institute. In the National Cancer Act, Congress stipulated that the institute's director be appointed by the president and allowed for its budget to be set independently.
"It is possible that an unnecessary rift may be created between the goals and leadership" of the cancer institute and the N.I.H. as a whole, Mr. Shapiro said in a briefing on the report, which the committee worked on for a year.
Congress set up the study through the National Academy of Sciences, an independent agency that Congress chartered to advise the federal government on scientific matters.
The National Cancer Institute budget represents about 17 percent of the overall N.I.H. budget -- $23.6 billion for the fiscal year 2002 -- which means, Mr. Shapiro said, that "there is one-fifth of the organization that does not have to pay attention to the rest."
John R. Seffrin, chief executive officer of the American Cancer Society, said his organization would be "very reluctant to see any diminution of the National Cancer Institute."
"We are at a critical juncture where we are poised to see new discoveries," Mr. Seffrin said, adding that most of the institute's research was "basic scientific research that doesn't mean it only addresses cancer; it may yield benefits in other areas or diseases." 
To help the National Institutes of Health be faster on its feet in responding to new research opportunities, the committee recommended setting aside $100 million a year for "risky, cutting-edge research that offers high potential payoff for society in terms of cures or improved medical treatment." That amount should rise eventually to $1 billion annually, Mr. Shapiro said. 
Senator Bill Frist, the Tennessee Republican who is majority leader and who is a heart surgeon, said he supported the panel's recommendation for money directed into what he called "high-risk, high-reward projects." 
But the committee also said it would recommend a six-year term for the N.I.H. director and five-year terms for the other heads of institutes and centers.
The committee recommended consolidating the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
It also recommended combining the National Human Genome Research Institute, which has completed its main task, with the National Institute of General Medical Sciences, which finances basic biomedical research. Congress would have to approve the creation, or the elimination, of an institute.
But the committee said it did not find that "wholesale consolidation is called for at this time because the costs -- a lengthy, uncertain process and loss of support from many key constituencies -- outweigh any benefits likely to be achieved.'
Dr. Raynard S. Kington, deputy director of the National Institutes of Health, said it was "important for any organization of N.I.H.'s size and complexity to rethink its structure," and called the report a good starting point for the 18,000-employee agency to begin its own review. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (92%); CANCER (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); OBESITY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RESEARCH; CANCER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%) NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH; NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



698 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Priceline Gives Details of Note Offering 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Priceline.com, the Internet seller of discount travel services, said yesterday that its offering of as much as $125 million in senior notes would carry an annual interest rate of 1 percent and convert to common stock at $40 a share.
 The seven-year notes will be redeemable by the company starting in 2008, Priceline.com said in a statement. 
 Priceline.com said proceeds from the private-placement offering would be used for strategic and general purposes as well as working capital. The notes, offered to institutional buyers, will mature in August 2010. The company will sell $100 million of the senior notes and grant buyers an option to purchase as much as $25 million more. Analysts and others said the financing could be used for acquisitions.
Priceline.com, based in Norwalk, Conn., had no debt and $149.2 million in cash and short-term investments at the end of the second quarter, it said.
Priceline.com's main Web site features a so-called opaque pricing system, where potential buyers propose prices they are willing to pay without receiving details of the booking until the transaction is completed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT NOTES (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WORKING CAPITAL (69%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (65%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: PRICELINE.COM INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: PRICELINE.COM 

TICKER: PCLN (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (90%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



699 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: California House Breaks Stalemate on Budget Plan 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 29 

 BODY:
The California Assembly approved a nearly $100 billion state budget today that cuts deeply into education and health care spending but does not raise taxes. 
 The 56-to-22 vote ended months of partisan debate arising from the state's record $38.2 billion deficit, which led, in large part, to the downgrading of the state's credit rating to near junk bond status and to the recall election facing Gov. Gray Davis on Oct. 7. 
 Passage of the budget now frees Mr. Davis to concentrate on battling the recall, which he has characterized as a right-wing effort to undo the election results of last November. Many voters accuse the governor of mishandling the state's finances; he will now make the argument that he helped address the problem andturn his focus to attacking the recall effort, aides said. 
The budget papers over the deficit with $11 billion in borrowing to be financed over five years, and still leaves the state with $8 billion in debt that will be carried into next year. 
Democrats and Republicans in the Legislature said they were unhappy with the result but said it was the best they could accomplish given the ideological gap between the parties. Throughout the months-long dispute, Democrats refused to consider deeper cuts in social services; Republicans would not budge on their refusal to raise taxes. The Democrats have large majorities in both houses of the Legislature, but the California Constitution requires a two-thirds majority to pass a budget. 
The Senate passed essentially the same plan on Sunday night.
Mr. Davis said that he would sign the budget this week despite reservations about the level of cuts to education and other state services. Earlier this year he proposed billions of dollars in increased sales, income and tobacco taxes, but abandoned them after it became clear that he could not muster the votes to enact them.
"This budget is not pretty, but it could have been a whole lot uglier," Mr. Davis told reporters this afternoon. He said the budget avoided more drastic cuts in children's health insurance and other programs for schools and the poor.
He said he hoped the agreement would be well received on Wall Street, which has watched California's fiscal meltdown with growing alarm and has penalized the state with higher borrowing costs. 
"Reducing the shortfall from $38 billion to $8 billion is a positive step forward, but there is much left to do" to win the confidence of investors, Mr. Davis said. 
Dave Cox, the Republican leader in the Assembly, said the budget was a compromise that protected vital state programs without raising taxes. In a statement, he directed a shot at Mr. Davis and the Democratic majority that might be a preview of the Republican line of attack in the recall campaign. 
"Of course, Californians deserved more than the failed leadership they've received under Governor Davis, whose inability to govern devastated our state's economy and left us with an unprecedented $38 billion hole," Mr. Cox said. "There were no easy solutions, and though we proposed a budget that did not raise taxes, Democrats were not willing to make the difficult but necessary spending reductions to enact that plan." 
As the parties bickered fruitlessly over the budget this spring and summer, nearly two million frustrated Californians signed petitions to put the question of whether to recall Mr. Davis from office on the ballot. Many cited the budget stalemate and the energy crisis three years ago as reasons for wishing Mr. Davis gone.
State officials set Oct. 7 for the recall vote. A successor to Mr. Davis will be chosen at the same time if a majority votes to remove him. 
A federal judge in San Diego today settled a legal complexity surrounding the recall vote, striking down part of a California law governing how recall ballots are counted. 
Judge Barry Moskowitz of Federal District Court declared unconstitutional a section of the California elections code that says that voters must cast a vote to support or oppose the recall in order for their vote on a successor to be valid. 
The state will not appeal the ruling, a spokeswoman for California's attorney general, Bill Lockyer, said this afternoon. Officials want all such questions cleared up so that they may begin printing millions of ballots and voting instructions. 
The recall ballot willhave two parts, a yes or no question on recalling Mr. Davis and a list of potential replacements if the recall is successful. Under the law, only those people who voted on the first question would be entitled to have their votes counted for a successor.
Judge Moskowitz said the law illegally limited the rights of those who chose not to cast a yes or no vote on the recall question. 
"What is at stake is the right of a voter to decide who shall succeed the governor, if recalled," Judge Moskowitz said in a written opinion delivered hours after he heard oral arguments in the case this morning. "Every voter, whether they voted for or against that recall, has a paramount interest in choosing the person who will govern them." 
The case was brought by two professors at the University of San Diego Law School who argued that it was unconstitutional to compel a vote on one part of a ballot to qualify to vote on another. 
Separately, supporters of Mr. Davis said today that they were preparing to challenge the recall voting on the grounds that the several major counties, including Los Angeles and San Diego, would be using unreliable punch-card voting systems because they will not have time to install newer technology for the recall election. 
The supporters are preparing to argue that the punch-card system threatens the rights of those voters under the equal protction clause of the Constitution. The case could be filed this week, antirecall officials said. 
Davis supporters said they intended to invoke the United States Supreme Court decision in Bush v. Gore, the case that decided the 2000 election. In that 5-to-4 ruling, the justices found that some Florida voters were denied equal protection under the Constitution because their punch-card votes were less likely to count than those cast by more reliable systems. 
Richard L. Hasen of the Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, an expert on election law, said the Davis forces might have a good case. 
"We have another Florida in the making," he said, adding that Los Angeles and San Diego Counties, among others, will have to haul punch-card machines out of mothballs for the recall election. The counties are under a court order to replace the machines.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Simon Jr. yesterday filled out nominating papers for a possible candidacy for California governor, with the help of Tanya Ramirez, a supervising clerk at the Los Angeles County Hall of Records. (Photo by Associated Press); Assemblyman Robert Button, Republican of Rancho Cucamonga, as a session yesterday on the state budget passed the 24-hour mark. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BONDS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (56%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; RECALL (ELECTIONS); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



700 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors See Lesson in Oneida Casino Deal: What Not to Do 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: VERONA, N.Y., July 24 

 BODY:
For all of the town and county governments hoping that a new Indian casino will solve their unemployment and tax problems, the people around here have a few words of advice: Don't do it the way we did.
 New York State got its first Indian gambling hall, the Turning Stone Casino, here in Oneida County just 10 years ago this summer, and for all its wealth and success, the booming resort has come to stand as a textbook example of how not to work with sovereign tribes when it comes to gambling, local officials say. 
 The Oneida Indian Nation of New York got state approval to open Turning Stone without agreeing to share its revenue with state and local governments, or to pay for improvements on non-Indian lands affected by casino traffic, or to comply with local environmental regulations or even to make its books open to the public. Most important to local governments, the nation was not pushed to settle its 250,000-acre land claim as a price for going into the gambling business; the claim has been upheld in federal courts.
All of those concessions are now part of the legal playbook for any county lawyer or state regulator working with tribes across the country these days. The Pataki administration said this year that it would not grant permits for new casinos, or renegotiate old ones, without first settling legal issues like land claims. 
But a decade ago, state and local officials had no experience with Indian gambling. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo was opposed to gambling, and to milking casinos for state dollars. And the Oneidas had a legal advantage in operating from their own land, 30 miles east of Syracuse. So the tribe got a free hand to develop its casino with hardly any need to satisfy outside interests.
The counties and towns around Turning Stone have certainly benefited from the 3,000 jobs at the casino, with the promise of more as it expands. But they have also had to pay for the added traffic and services for the three million people who visit each year, they say, while increasing taxes to make up for revenue lost when businesses and land bought up with casino dollars are added to the reservation and taken off the tax rolls.
The costs are steep for a rural area that has already lost Griffiss Air Force Base in Rome and many manufacturing and farming jobs. And they feed a festering ill will against the Indians among people whose families have lived here for generations.
"When somebody living on one side of the road has to live by certain rules, and the family on the other side doesn't, that leads to a lot of ill feelings," said Mikale Billard, policy research analyst for Oneida County. 
"We talk to other places around the country all the time about our experience," he added. "The idea is to avoid some of the mistakes that were made here."
Ray Halbritter, the Oneida Nation's leader, is unsympathetic. "They say, 'Why don't the Indians pay their fair share?' " he said. "Well, the Indians have paid a lot already in the land they lost."
The Oneidas said they needed the casino to overcome generations of poverty and neglect for the remnant of a native people whose vast upstate land holdings had shrunk to 32 acres here in central New York.
The Oneida Indians saw further into the future than others here, and over a decade, they poured their profits back into their business. Turning Stone Casino Resort today is as loud and gorgeously gaudy as any casino, with thousands of square feet of gambling space, several golf courses, hotels, shops and a music hall. In 2001, according to a bond prospectus circulated by the nation, the complex took in $232 million for the tribe's 1,000 members.
With some of that money, the Oneida Nation has bought 16,000 acres in numerous parcels, including 12 of Oneida County's surviving 20 gasoline and convenience stores, Mr. Billard said. Owners of non-Indian shops say they have been put out of business by the low prices of Oneida-owned stores. The Indians undersell white-owned stores by pocketing the sales tax receipts.
The tribe has given away millions of dollars' worth of gifts to educational, civic and charitable organizations, and it offers "silver covenant" gifts of cash to local governments it considers friendly. But relations between the tribes and the local governments are so bad that only Verona, the casino's host town, and one or two other towns accept them.
"Silver handcuffs," David O. Barker, the city manager in Sherrill, calls them.
Contrast that with the experience of Connecticut, where the two immense Indian casinos, Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun, pour a total of $370 million a year into state and local government accounts, under revenue-sharing agreements reached before the casinos opened. Or with the careful preparation of Sullivan County, N.Y., whose lawyer has negotiated agreements with two of the three tribes looking to develop the three casinos that the state has authorized for the Catskills.
"As much as we think a world-class casino in Sullivan can be good for the economy, we also knew that there would be a lot of negative impacts in terms of traffic and roads and schools that come along with them," said the county lawyer, Ira J. Cohen.
Mr. Cohen's agreements cover everything from the casino payouts to the county -- at least $15 million a year for each casino -- to the way the casinos can structure their free-gas coupons to clients. If the coupons are honored at Indian-owned gas stations, they must be honored at other gas stations as well.
The bitterness felt here in Oneida County will probably only grow sharper now that towns have started raising taxes to make up for revenues lost on properties and businesses bought by the Oneidas, town managers say. Sherrill traces the increase in the local tax rate, from $5 per $1,000 valuation in 1998 to $6.25 today, to the loss of some $110,000 in property and sales taxes from businesses bought by the Oneidas.
Sherrill's lawsuit to tax Indian property was rejected, in a 3-to-2 decision, in the United States Court of Appeals this month. The city plans to ask for a rehearing.
"I mean, they've got a casino for forever under the compact," said Mr. Billard, the county research analyst. "And there is no ability to go back and make any changes."
Mr. Halbritter, the Oneidas' leader, pointed out what everyone around here keenly recognizes: The Oneidas have won nearly every lawsuit aimed at taxing or limiting them.
Other governments around the country have learned the lessons of Oneida County and its towns: that the time to extract concessions from tribes is before the casino opens, when local concerns and objections can still influence state and federal licensing decisions.
The pursuit of Indian gambling revenues is so intense that in Congressional testimony, Jacob Viarrial, governor of the Pueblo of Pojoaque in New Mexico, complained last fall that negotiations for gambling compacts had "become an excuse for extortion."
Mr. Cuomo rejected that approach back in 1993. In an interview this month, he said he was reluctant to talk about the land claims because he was still named by tribes in several lawsuits, but added that he opposed fattening state treasuries with gambling dollars. 
"I wouldn't have tried to get cute about making deals because, even if I could cajole them into it, I didn't like what it represented as precedent," said Mr. Cuomo, who now practices law in Manhattan. "What I said was, 'It's not good governance and it's not a good way to run a good economy.' "
He pointed out that in exchange for state approval of Turning Stone, he required that state gambling regulators and the state police oversee the casino.
Gov. George E. Pataki has embraced the use of Indian gambling revenue and has bargained hard for millions of dollars in revenue-sharing and other concessions. He also forced the St. Regis Mohawks to agree to settle their land claim before he would let them add slot machines to their casino in Hogansburg, near the Canadian border. The Oneidas are interested in operating one of the three Catskills casinos, but would also have to settle their claims first, state officials have said.
The town of Verona has made its peace with Turning Stone, its biggest employer, and has accepted $170,000 in silver covenant gifts, along with $300,000 for new town offices and garages, $13 million for a badly needed water system, and a promise of $13 million more for a wastewater treatment plant. The deals were arranged by David K. Reed, the town supervisor, who was accused of racism some years back when he helped found a movement opposing Indian sovereignty, Upstate Citizens for Equality, but who has since reconciled himself to the Oneidas.
"The fight is over, and all of the victories have gone to the nation," Mr. Reed said. "It's time to stop the hatred and start working as a community."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Turning Stone Casino Resort in Verona, N.Y., has enabled the Oneidas to buy land. (Photo by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg. B1); The Oneida Indian Nation says it needs revenue from its casino to overcome generations of poverty and neglect. (Photo by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg. B5) Map of New York shows the location of Verona: The Turning Stone Casino in Verona has added jobs and traffic. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); COUNTIES (90%); GAMING (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); FAMILY (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); AIR FORCES (50%) Gambling; Indians, American; Public Property; Casinos; Gambling

ORGANIZATION: Oneida Indians; Turning Stone Casino (Verona, NY)

PERSON: Iver Peterson

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Oneida County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



701 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: APPRECIATIONS; 
The Curtain Comes Down for Herbie

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

 BODY:
Adios, bug.
 You may have called it a Beetle -- or even KdF-Wagen, if you owned one in Germany right after the war. My family knew it as the bug. Whatever it was called, the last one is due to roll off the Volkswagen line today in Puebla, Mexico. Its successor is basically a front-engine Golf with a faux-Beetle bod. It's a nifty car, but it's also a different story. 
 The authentic bug was a defining automotive phenomenon of our time -- a cramped, weak, noisy two-door car, designed on Hitler's orders before World War II as a "people's car," which went on to become the best-selling automobile in history. (Hitler decreed the shape, but Ferdinand Porsche, of Porsche fame, created the car.) The last one off the line is No. 21,529,464 worldwide. The runner-up in numbers built, Ford's Model T, sold about 15 million.
In the 60's, all the teenagers, including me, knew the sound of the VW's air-cooled flat-four engine, tucked away back where the trunk should be: a sort of loud cough interrupted by burps, rising to a desperate rasp when it approached 60 m.p.h. I had one for a while (like everybody else I know): a green '68 bug I bought from a guy in Brooklyn. When the engine blew, the garage told me that the motor, at least, "wasn't no '68." I didn't hold that against my bug -- the fact that parts were so interchangeable and plentiful was what made it so economical.
It was the perfect automotive statement for the 60's, a car that proclaimed disdain for the fins, planned obsolescence and, in general, all the conspicuous consumption of middle-class America. But in a very shrill era, the bug made its comment with irony. This was a car with a sense of humor.
Still, every cult must come to an end. I replaced my bug in 1971 with a Toyota, falling in line with the times. The production of Beetles in Europe ended in 1975; production for the United States stopped in 1979. Brazil continued to make bugs for several more years, and then there was only Mexico.
The last 3,000 bugs to roll off the line in Puebla were a special farewell edition in retro colors like Aquarius blue. The last one was to be shipped to Volkswagen's headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, to be put on display, a certified classic.
Bye-bye, Beetle. "Punch buggy Aquarius blue!" SERGE SCHMEMANN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%) AUTOMOBILES; EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



702 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Vice Chairman at Merrill Abruptly Decides to Retire
The executive vice chairman of Merrill Lynch, Thomas H. Patrick Sr., left, retired abruptly, surprising a Wall Street community that had given him credit for masterminding Merrill Lynch's radical cost-cutting effort over the last three years.
 The sudden departure of Mr. Patrick, 60, cements power ever more firmly in the hands of E. Stanley O'Neal, the firm's chief executive, who relied on Mr. Patrick's behind-the-scenes support with the Merrill Lynch board when he succeeded David H. Komansky last year. Page C6. 

MGM Exits Bidding for Vivendi Unit
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer abruptly withdrew its $11.5 billion cash offer for Vivendi Universal's entertainment businesses, contending that the asking price was too high. C4.

Lobby Group Tries to Block Drug Bill
A pharmaceutical trade group obtained the signatures of 53 senators in a move to try to defeat a measure the House approved last week to let Americans import less expensive medicines from Canada and Europe. A15.

Boeing Testing a Safer Fuel Tank
Seven years after Trans World Airlines Flight 800 was destroyed by an explosion in its center fuel tank, Boeing is flying a 747 in which such explosions are nearly impossible, with a system that it hopes to install on all planes. C11.

Jones Cuts Its Earnings Forecast
Jones Apparel lowered its full-year profit forecast, largely because of the loss of the Lauren sportswear license, which the company gave back to Polo Ralph Lauren in June during a bitter dispute that has led to litigation. C3.

Cabinet Members Talk Up Economy
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao rolled by bus on a two-day, six-city, 550-mile trip across the Midwest delivering the message that the president is concerned, but the economy will improve. A12.

Tyco Reports a 3rd-Quarter Profit
Tyco International posted a third-quarter profit in contrast to a loss a year ago, but the report was marred as the company again restated results, this time dating back to 1998. The return to profitability comes on the one-year anniversary of the hiring of Edward D. Breen as Tyco chief executive after the resignation of L. Dennis Kozlowski. C6.

Discovery May Aid SARS Treatment
A small biotechnology company, Structural GenomiX, has determined the three-dimensional structure of a crucial enzyme in the virus that causes SARS, an accomplishment that could accelerate efforts to develop treatments for the deadly respiratory disease. C2.

Earnings Decline 5% at McDonald's
McDonald's reported a 5 percent decline in second-quarter profit, largely because of one-time expenses like advertising, promotions and real estate expenditures that are a part of the company's turnaround strategy. C6.

Clear Channel Posts Gain in Profit
Clear Channel Communications reported higher second-quarter profit after a one-time gain, despite a decline in radio advertising revenue. It expects a stronger second half of 2003. C4.

Drop in Confidence Hurts Markets
An unexpected decline in consumer confidence jolted Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 62.05 points, to 9,204.46, the Nasdaq composite index lost 3.99 points, to 1,731.37, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dipped 7.24 points, to 989.28. C6.

Sunrise Is Changing Its Strategy
Sunrise Senior Living has been aggressively selling its Victorian-style properties and transforming itself into a management company. Commercial Real Estate. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,204.46 down 62.05Nasdaq composite -- 1,731.37 down 3.9910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.45% up 0.16The euro -- $1.1478 down 0.0014The dollar -- 119.68 yen up 0.29 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Tyco shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (86%); SARS (84%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (73%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); APPROVALS (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENZYMES (68%); AIRLINES (66%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (65%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (61%); VIRUSES (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); LITIGATION (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (83%); VIVENDI (83%); BOEING CO (55%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); MCDONALD'S CORP (50%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (83%); VIV (BIT) (83%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); TYC (NYSE) (53%); MCD (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (53%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (58%); RALPH LAUREN (50%); ELAINE CHAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



703 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Is Holding Back Money For Lawmakers' Home Districts 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 29 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki is refusing to sign off on millions of dollars that legislators can dole out for projects in their backyards, a move that lawmakers say is a result of a bruising budget battle.
 In the budget lawmakers approved in May, over the governor's objections, they saw fit to appropriate $200 million for so-called member items, a euphemism for the money legislators spread around their home districts for everything from V.F.W. halls and Little Leagues to AIDS clinics, legal services and food pantries. 
 But Governor Pataki, citing what he said were constitutional issues with the Legislature's budget, has so far not allowed the money to be released. 
It is not too late, however, for the governor and lawmakers to work out their differences. The recipients, mostly nonprofit groups, typically wait until the end of summer, or beyond, to receive money for their programs, because state budgets in Albany are often adopted late in the fiscal year.
But this year, as the Legislature moved quickly to override the governor, the member items became pawns in a war between the branches.
"This is real money, and it does have a real impact in the state for programs and services and different types of initiatives that are found in just about every part of the state in some fashion," said Charles R. Carrier, a spokesman for the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver. "So it's real."
Mr. Carrier pointed out, however, that Mr. Pataki had released funds for other purposes after first voicing reluctance.
"He is sitting on it," Mr. Carrier said of the governor's refusal to release the member items. "But he threatened and indeed sat for a while on the $25 million for the summer youth jobs program before he finally let that go."
Officials in the Senate and the Assembly said the $92.8 billion budget that lawmakers passed in May cleared the way for the release of the member items. But when the Legislature overrode Mr. Pataki's vetoes of its spending plan, acting with a boldness that many members said they could not remember seeing before, the governor said he would carry out only the parts of the budget that his lawyers believed were constitutional.
Mr. Pataki said he would ensure that school districts received their state aid, for example, even though he believed that that part of the budget, like the member items, was improperly drafted.
In their budget, lawmakers included a lump sum of $170 million ($85 million each for the Senate and the Assembly) and language that said the leaders of the two houses would decide how to spend it later.
The fact that the spending was not detailed in long lists in the budget irked Mr. Pataki, who in most budgets is able to allocate money himself, usually about $30 million.
Later, the two houses agreed to restore the member-items spending in an agreement with the governor on a bill that made several technical changes to the budget the Legislature passed in May. In return, the governor would receive about $70 million for economic development programs that he controls.
But the Senate and the Assembly passed separate versions of the bill, a so-called budget cleanup bill. In Albany, both houses of the Legislature must pass the same bill to deliver it to the governor for his signature or veto. Since there is no mechanism for reconciling differences, lawmakers often pass legislation that cannot be delivered to the governor.
At a news conference today, the governor said he was not releasing money for the member items because in his view there was no legally valid appropriation for the spending.
"The failure to pass the budget cleanup bill means there is not a legally valid appropriation," Mr. Pataki said.
The Senate is expected to return to Albany in September for a special session. The Assembly has called for conference committees to work out differences with the Senate, and it is unclear if it will return to Albany in the fall.
Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, has spoken with Mr. Silver and the governor on the matter, said Mr. Bruno's spokesman, John E. McArdle.
"We remain optimistic that we can resolve differences and pass an agreed-upon bill that the governor will sign," Mr. McArdle said. "That will fund these critical local programs." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); YOUTH SPORTS (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); LAWYERS (69%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (68%) Local Government

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



704 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Columbia, in a Growth Spurt, Is Buying a Swath of Harlem 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Columbia University, long starved for land at its campus in Morningside Heights, is buying up a 17-acre swath in West Harlem for its first major expansion in 75 years.
 The university's long-range plan calls for removing the battered brick industrial buildings now in the area bounded roughly by Broadway, 125th Street, 12th Avenue and 133rd Street and replacing them with a new tree-lined campus of school buildings, performing arts centers, research labs, a jazz club and dormitories. 
 The proposed multibillion-dollar project, about half the size of Columbia's 36-acre campus in Morningside Heights, would be built in the coming decades and could become what the university regards as a link to its health sciences complex in Washington Heights. Aside from acquiring the rest of the land, Columbia also needs zoning changes that would allow high-rise development of nonindustrial buildings.
Columbia has crowded new buildings onto campus for years and erected towers on scattered sites in the surrounding area, but officials say it needs to expand if it is to continue to attract top professors, researchers and students. 
Columbia is hoping that its plans will fit well with efforts by the state, city and community groups to redevelop the Hudson River waterfront and West Harlem, which the university prefers to call by its historic name, Manhattanville.
"This is an opportunity in Manhattanville to create something of immense vitality and beauty," said Lee C. Bollinger, Columbia's president. "This is not to just go in and throw up some buildings. These would be beautiful, magnificent buildings on the order of what we have in Morningside Heights. Maybe not in mass, but in quality."
Columbia has more than 20,000 students and 9,000 employees, making it the 12th-largest employer in New York City and the largest recipient of research funds in the city. The university has hired the Renzo Piano Building Workshop and Skidmore Owings & Merrill to design the project. If it goes ahead, the first phase would include a 500,000-square-foot complex on 125th Street for the School of the Arts, research space, residence halls and retail space.
Columbia hopes to avoid the kind of community opposition and campus rebellions caused by its past attempts to expand, or its effort in 1968 to build a gymnasium in Morningside Park. To that end, the university is focusing on a run-down industrial area of warehouses, auto-repair shops and a meatpacking plant, avoiding a string of apartment buildings along Broadway between 133rd and 132nd Streets, but including an odd-shaped block to the east, bounded by Broadway and Old Broadway.
The area is framed by an elevated subway line along Broadway and a highway viaduct along 12th Avenue; Manhattanville Houses are to the east and another housing complex is to the north.
The university has been meeting quietly in the past two months with United States Representative Charles B. Rangel and state and city officials about plans to redevelop the area. It has also established a task force including representatives of the local community board and various neighborhood groups, a tactic that some residents have found encouraging and a break with what they said was Columbia's past arrogance.
"They're treading lightly," said Peggy Shepard, executive director of West Harlem Environmental Action, who has met with Columbia officials. "They put together a task force to show the community they want to do this in partnership. They have not really presented anything at this point. It's mostly them listening to us. As long as their needs are compatible with how the community sees the use of the manufacturing zone, it could be a good thing."
Over the past 50 years, Columbia has spilled down Broadway from the gates of its main campus at 116th Street. Its attempts to erect new buildings or buy old ones and squeeze out residents have generated one neighborhood battle after another.
Columbia has owned property on the south side of 125th Street since the late 1960's, but few people have been aware of the extent to which the university has been buying or leasing property in West Harlem, particularly for the past year. It rents space, for instance, in the old Studebaker building on 131st Street and has an option to buy the six-story structure as well as the garage next door. The university owns a parking lot on 129th Street and, real estate executives said, is negotiating to buy the land occupied by a U-Haul franchise on Broadway, near 132nd Street.
According to a Columbia document prepared for government officials, it owns or controls more than 40 percent of the 17 acres for the new campus and is in talks to buy 32 percent more.
Next spring, the city and the state expect to begin a $12 million plan to rebuild the Harlem piers on the waterfront between St. Clair Place and 133rd Street for recreational use. The city is also working with the community board, Columbia and others on a plan to rezone the neighborhood and encourage economic development under Henry Hudson Parkway, just to the west of the new campus. 
The university's plans would amount to one of the largest development projects in the city and could fit in with those efforts, although there is clearly potential for friction. School buildings, laboratories and science labs would generate new jobs, university officials said, and there is the possibility that businesses could locate nearby as a result of research work.
In addition, Columbia said it would provide space for retail shops and nonprofit organizations along Broadway and 12th Avenue and would develop partnerships between, say, the School of the Arts and local artists and community organizations.
That approach contrasts sharply with what others have taken as Columbia's view of Harlem in the past. In the 1960's, the university built a tower for faculty apartments at the corner of 12th Avenue and St. Clair Place, it put the front door facing west, in effect turning its back on Harlem and 125th Street.
Now the university's plans for high-rise buildings could also run afoul of efforts by community groups to preserve the low-scale character of Harlem. Housing is a pressing issue, and the university's project may require moving a major Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus garage now on 133rd Street. Finally, Columbia would almost certainly need state help to condemn property that it cannot buy.
Jarvis Doctorow, for one, said he was having too much fun to sell. Mr. Doctorow, who is 79, owns the seven-story factory at 3280 Broadway that he converted to an office building, where Columbia is among the renters.
"I cannot prevent people from knocking on my door," he said, "but the building is not for sale."
Columbia has made no secret of what it says is its desperate need for land to expand. A 1998 survey by the office of the university provost found that it had less space per student than other major universities, 194 square feet; in contrast, the report said Princeton had 561 square feet, the University of Pennsylvania 440 and Harvard 368. 
Columbia is erecting a 16-story apartment building for law students at Amsterdam Avenue and 122nd Street and an adjacent $50 million academic center. It is finishing a building on 110th Street, starting work on another at 103rd and Broadway, and planning for perhaps two towers on the grounds of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine.
Mr. Bollinger said he saw the land in Manhattanville as an important opportunity. 
"Over the long term, upper Manhattan is our home," Mr. Bollinger said. "Columbia will never fully realize its own aspirations unless it accepts that. The question is, how do we weave together this tapestry? Any sense of a gated community or a town-gown line would be a mistake."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the area Columbia seeks, looking west near 129th Street, toward 12th Avenue from Broadway. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Map of Manhattan highlighting Columbia University and the surrounding area: Columbia hopes to mesh the plan for its decades-long project with city and community plans. (pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (85%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ZONING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (70%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (62%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; DORMITORIES; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%) RENZO PIANO BUILDING WORKSHOP; SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL; COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%) SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (73%) RANGEL, CHARLES B (REP); BOLLINGER, LEE C; PIANO, RENZO; BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); MANHATTANVILLE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



705 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Body In a Suitcase Identified 

BYLINE:  By William K. Rashbaum (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez 

 BODY:
 A dismembered body found in a suitcase on a Chinatown street last month was identified yesterday as that of an unemployed cook who had lived in Queens, the police said. The cook, Yang Jun Zhang, 46, had been decapitated and his legs had been cut off, the police said. His body was stuffed into a large black suitcase. Mr. Yang came from Liaoning Province in China, according to Ken Fan, 29, whose family rented a room in their home on 41st Road in Flushing, Queens, to Mr. Yang. The suitcase containing the body was discovered at 2 a.m. on June 30 by homeless men at the corner of Forsyth Street and East Broadway.
 William K. Rashbaum (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (85%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS 

PERSON: RASHBAUM, WILLIAM K; YANG JUN ZHANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



706 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Senate Rejects Fuel Standard Change 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 By a vote of 65 to 32, the Senate rejected a proposal to require a sharp increase in automobile fuel economy after concerns were raised that it would lead to a loss of auto industry jobs and limit consumers' ability to buy larger cars and S.U.V.'s. The proposal would have required car makers to produce a fleet average of 40 miles per gallon by 2015, up from the current 27.5 m.p.g. Instead, the Transportation Department will consider issues like job losses, highway safety and economic impact on automakers before any rule change can be made. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (85%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



707 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Caution Is Costly, Scholars Say 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The ball shot down the left-field line, and the Yankees' speedy second baseman, who had singled in the inning, raced toward third base. With two outs in the eighth, the Yankees down by 3-2 and the ball caroming off the outfield wall, the third-base coach faced a decision on which the season would turn: should the runner try for home?
 Then the professor stopped the VCR. 
This has become an annual ritual in a graduate school class at the University of Chicago taught by Richard Thaler, an economist widely considered to be a serious candidate for a Nobel Prize. Thaler plays a videotape of Game 2 of the 1980 American League Championship Series, stops it during the crucial sequence and asks the students to weigh all the information before making their own decision. 
Be it at Chicago, Duke, Harvard or the University of California at Berkeley, some of the nation's top economists, psychologists and statisticians are coming to see sports as a subject that requires their attention. Trying to understand human decision-making, they are writing papers about such choices as when to punt, or when to take out a basketball player in foul trouble. About 25 of them gathered in the spring for a two-day academic conference in Arizona, where they went to a spring training game once their work was done.
Their research is quickly leading to a theory that will resonate with any fans who have ever screamed for their team to go for it on fourth down: the professors say that managers, coaches and players are often far too cautious for their own good.
"Teams are averse to going for all or none," said Steven J. Sherman, a psychology professor at Indiana University, who came up with the idea for the conference with Thaler when they were having dinner in an Afghan restaurant in Chicago last year. "Teams don't want to do something that puts the game on the line right now."
They intentionally walk Barry Bonds even though statistics offer a clear argument for pitching to him. Giving him an automatic place on first base usually leads to more runs in the inning than one of his at-bats does.
Behind by 2 at the end of a basketball game and playing a superior team, coaches generally do not attempt a 3-point shot. Yet that shot often offers a better chance of winning than the combined odds of making a 2-pointer at the buzzer, then winning in overtime.
In football, unless the head coach of the team on offense is named Bill Parcells, fourth down almost invariably leads to the appearance of a kicker. But having studied about 700 N.F.L. games, David Romer, an economist at Berkeley, argues that teams would fare better by going for first down far more often than they do.
Much of the professors' interest in these question stems from the simple fact that they are sports fans. Romer began his research after his skepticism had been piqued one Sunday afternoon while he was driving to Home Depot and listening to a Raiders announcer expound upon the obvious virtues of the field goal. At the conference in Arizona, Bill James, a baseball writer recently hired by the Boston Red Sox as a consultant, was a bigger attraction than any of the intellectual stars in attendance, a few professors said.
"All of the academics in the room were jealous of Bill James," said Thaler, an energetic man who is quick to make self-deprecating jokes. "He had the job they really want: adviser to the Red Sox."
But there is also a more serious undercurrent to the work. In recent years, economists and psychologists have become increasingly interested in the ways that people do not act rationally. Known as behavioral economics, the field examines why stock-market bubbles happen and why many people do not save enough money for retirement, among other things.
Sporting events, which are played out step by step in the most public of settings, allow the researchers to determine the precise moment that somebody veers from good sense.
"My justification for doing this is that it's the one really high-stakes activity where you get to watch all of the decisions," Thaler said. "If Bill Gates invited me to watch all of his decisions, I'd talk more about that."
The professors say that coaches and managers often go awry when faced with a decision involving an obvious, yet ultimately sensible, risk. They seem to focus too much on the worst-case scenario: the Bonds home run, the game-ending brick, the failed fourth down. Travelers who drive hundreds of miles because they are afraid of a plane crash make the same mistake.
In the most recent Super Bowl, the Oakland Raiders' coaching staff sent in the punting unit when faced with fourth-and-4 on the Buccaneers' 45-yard line during the first quarter. Going for the first down, after all, would have risked giving the Tampa Bay Buccaneers excellent field position.
That decision may indeed have been the correct one, given the strength of Tampa Bay's defense, but punting on fourth-and-4 from just past midfield, which teams do, is usually a mistake, according to Romer's research. The chance to keep a drive going when a team is so close to field-goal territory is usually more valuable than the 30 or so yards of field position the team gains by punting.
Or imagine a basketball player who makes about 50 percent of his 2-point shots and 40 percent of his 3-pointers. If his team is down by 2 in the final seconds and he takes the 3-pointer, the team has a 40 percent chance of winning. If the coach instead designs a play that gives him a 2-point shot, the team has only about a 25 percent chance of winning: the 50 percent chance that he will tie the score multiplied by the roughly 50 percent chance that the team will win in overtime.
So far, the professors acknowledge, their work has had little impact. But they have been heartened by the willingness of a few teams, including the Red Sox, the Oakland A's and the Dallas Mavericks, to use statistical analysis in new ways.
"It has to be the case that sound knowledge willwin out eventually," Thomas Gilovich, a psychology professor at Cornell, said. "But the path is tortuous and slow."
One big reason is the consequence that can greet a risk gone bad, even a sensible one.
In the spring, after Thaler stopped the videotape on the 1980 Yankees game, his students argued overwhelmingly in favor of sending home the runner, Willie Randolph. Thaler agreed. There were two outs, and the Kansas City Royals' fielders would have to make two excellent throws to get Randolph out at the plate.
Many Yankees fans know how the story ends, however. Mike Ferraro, the third-base coach, waved Randolph home. Willie Wilson of the Royals played the carom in left field cleanly and threw to third baseman George Brett, who relayed the ball perfectly to catcher Darrell Porter.
Randolph was out. The Yankees lost. George Steinbrenner made sure that Ferraro was no longer coaching third base the next season.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Intentionally walking Barry Bonds can lead to more runs than allowing him to hit, statistics show. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



708 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCIES; 
Snow Says U.S. Will Encourage China to Widen Currency Range

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Bush administration plans to use quiet diplomacy to encourage the Chinese government to allow its currency to strengthen by widening its trading band against the dollar, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said yesterday.
 "We want to engage the Chinese in a series of conversations and discussions" about widening the band, Mr. 
Snow told factory workers in Milwaukee. 
 He was speaking on the first day of a two-state bus tour with Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao and Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans to promote President Bush's economic agenda.
Lobbyists for United States manufacturers have said that China's eight-year policy of fixing the yuan at 8.2770 to the dollar gives its companies an unfair edge by keeping the currency from rising, a strategy that makes Chinese goods cheaper for foreigners and fuels a current-account surplus.
The European Union and Japan have also called on China to abandon the peg.
The yuan has benefited from its link to the dollar, giving a boost to Chinese exports, as the dollar has slid 29 percent against the euro since the start of 2002.
The dollar has dropped 19 percent against a basket of the most widely traded currencies during the period, as an economic slowdown discouraged foreign investors from buying American financial assets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EURO (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); TRENDS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ELAINE CHAO (73%) SNOW, JOHN W (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHAO, ELAINE L (SEC); EVANS, DONALD L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



709 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: A New 'New Mideast' 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Back in the mid-1990's there was a lot of talk about "a new Middle East" that seemed to be aborning. It turned out to be, shall we say, "premature" -- as the newest new Middle East came crashing down with the collapse of Oslo, the breakdown in Arab-Israeli relations, 9/11 and the massive passive support for Osama bin Laden. With hindsight, it's now easy to see that there could be no "new Middle East" without a new kind of Middle East politics. It was like trying to build a new house on swampland. Eventually, it just sank.
 Understanding that is the key to understanding the significance of what is happening today. There are two very radical political experiments under way in the Middle East. These two experiments are to the post-9/11 world what the rebuilding of Germany and Japan were to the post-World War II world -- at least in terms of the stakes involved. 
 One experiment is the new Palestinian political authority, spearheaded by Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas, which is attempting to bring real rule of law, financial accountability and control over all military affairs to the Palestinian leadership. Palestinians are trying anew to prove that they can rule themselves responsibly, after so many years of misrule under Yasir Arafat. And the other is the new political authority that was just appointed by the U.S. in Iraq: the 25-person Governing Council, which is set to write a new Iraqi constitution, name ministers and prepare Iraq for elections, as Iraqis try to prove they can rule themselves after so many years of tyranny under Saddam Hussein.
These two infant authorities -- the one Palestinians brought about by a vote of their own legislature and the one Iraqis had handed to them, thanks to America's toppling of Saddam -- are, in theory, fundamental departures from both the style and substance of their predecessors. America and the world have an overwhelming interest in their success.
After all, the most important thing America did during the cold war was to rebuild West Germany and Japan. That project tilted the world in our favor and was critical to the containment and ultimate defeat of Soviet Communist totalitarianism. Just as a Germany rebuilt on the foundations of democracy, free markets and the rule of law anchored postwar Western Europe, and a rebuilt Japan was essential to the growth, liberalization and stability of postwar Asia, so a new kind of political authority among Palestinians and Iraqis -- who sit at the emotional heart of the Arab and Muslim world -- could do the same for the Middle East. This is the only answer to Saddam's secular totalitarianism and Osama's religious totalitarianism.
The Bush Pentagon has already, idiotically, wasted critical months in Iraq trying to prove it can do nation-building on the cheap and without serious allies. But this task will also require political capital. President Bush has been right to stipulate to the new Palestinian leadership that there will be no Palestinian state unless it can deliver real security to Israel. But Mr. Bush also has to make clear to Israelis that no Palestinian Authority will be able to deliver that security unless the Palestinian people believe that they're going to get a real state in return -- and that means a removal of Israel's West Bank-Gaza settlements, bypass roads, fences, etc.
But while there is much that we must do, there is also much that they must do. Palestinians have to want to get rid of Hamas and Islamic Jihad as military groups for their own reasons. You cannot build a new state with parties who believe that it is O.K. to take the flower of Palestinian youth, wrap them in dynamite and have them blow themselves up in Israeli pizza parlors. Nothing normal can come from that. And Iraqis have to prove that they really can work together and are willing to sacrifice for the chance to rule themselves. (Why are we offering them $55 million in rewards for finding Saddam and his sons? They should be paying us!) We don't need U.N. or French troops in Iraq right now. We need more Iraqis who want to sacrifice to be free.
When you see Iraqis risking their lives to protect and nurture their new infant self-ruling authority, when you see Palestinians ready to take on the extremists in their midst because they are a cancer on the Palestinians' own future, and when you see a Bush administration ready to pay any price and bear any burden, economic or political, to help them both, then you can legitimately start to speak again about a "new Middle East." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); COLD WAR (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (67%); RELIGION (62%) PALESTINIANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; ABBAS, MAHMOUD (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (93%); ISRAEL (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) ISRAEL; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



710 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-8

Sharon Vows to Raise West Bank Security Wall
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel rebuffed pressure from President Bush to halt construction of a security wall on the West Bank and called on Mr. Bush to convince Palestinian leaders to do more to dismantle terrorist groups. A1

The Palestinian Authority's security minister said his forces in the West Bank had prevented seven terror attacks against Israel in the past month, but did not make any arrests because Israel still controls those areas. Each side continues to accuse the other of failing to meet its obligations under the peace initiative. A8

A Quickening Hunt for Hussein
American military officials said they were confident they had picked up the trail of Saddam Hussein as soldiers made dozens of raids and seized more than 175 suspected Hussein loyalists. An Arabic-language television station broadcast an audiotape it said carried the voice of Mr. Hussein calling for revenge as he mourned the death of his sons. A1

Senators from both parties assailed President Bush's budget director and deputy defense secretary for refusing to detail how much the postwar effort will cost and how many American troops will be needed. A9

The Bush administrations nominee for Army chief of staff, Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker, said the Army probably needs more troops to meet its worldwide commitments. A9

Liberia Rejects Cease-Fire
Liberia rejected a rebel offer of a truce as shells slammed into Monrovia suburbs despite the insurgents' pledge to stop fighting and let West African peacekeepers occupy the capital. Weary residents doubt any cease-fire will work. A4

Mobs Rally in Guatemala
Well-organized mobs in Guatemala City rallied in support of Efrain Rios Montt, the former general and dictator who is seeking the presidency even as a debate rages in the courts about his right to do so. A3

NATIONAL A11-15

Bush Refuses to Release Secret Part of 9/11 Report
President Bush refused to declassify a 28-page chapter of a Congressional report on the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, that centers on accusations of Saudi Arabia's role in financing the hijackings. A1

Rise of a Contender
Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, has burst from his obscurity as an antiwar gadfly in a crowded field of Democrats to rank among the top contenders for the party's presidential nomination. A1

Mistrial in Brutality Case
A mistrial was declared in the case of a California police officer who was videotaped last year slamming a 16-year-old boy onto a patrol car. The jury said that it was deadlocked. A12

Drug Lobby Pushed Letter
A trade group helped coordinate a signature campaign in the Senate opposing legislation allowing Americans to import less expensive medicines and hailed the signed letter as proof of its argument that the bill would jeopardize patient safety. A15

Alternatives for Head Start
Senate Democrats and a Republican are offering separate proposals for revising the federal Head Start program, neither of which adopts the most controversial change in the version the House passed last week: permitting eight states to take over the program. A14

A Budget for California
The California Assembly approved by a 56-to-22 vote a nearly $100 billion state budget that cuts deeply into education and health care spending but does not raise taxes. A11

SPORTS D1-7

Professors Comment on Risk
Economists, psychologists and statisticians say that managers, coaches and players are often too cautious for their own good. D1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

City May Be Emerging From Fiscal Crisis
There is evidence that New York City is emerging from its fiscal crisis for the first time since the terrorist attacks of 2001, a startling turnaround that is a result of a budget formula consisting of higher taxes, service cuts, extra aid and greater government efficiency. A1

Pataki Holds Back Funds
Governor Pataki is refusing to sign off on millions of dollars that legislators can dole out for projects in their backyards. B1

ARTS E1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Polio Virus Security
The World Health Organization is encouraging laboratories with stocks of the polio virus to either take measures to prevent accidental release, or destroy them. Dr. Jong Wook Lee, the W.H.O.'s new director, declared they will need $210 million in order to eradicate the virus by 2005. A5

Ozone Layer Destruction Slows
Scientists monitoring the highest levels of the atmosphere say they have detected a slowing in the rate of destruction of the earth's protective veil of ozone. A11

OBITUARIES C12

DINING F1-12

EDUCATION B8

Columbia Plans to Expand
Columbia University, long starved for land, is buying up a 17-acre swath in West Harlem for its first major expansion in 75 years. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-11

Hoping to Head Off a Strike
Verizon and its labor unions met with a federal mediator in an effort to avoid a walkout that could affect phone service in 13 New England and Middle Atlantic States. C1

Executive Leaves Merrill
Thomas H. Patrick Sr., the vice chairman of Merrill Lynch, retired abruptly, surprising Wall Street. C6

MGM Pulls Offer to Vivendi
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer withdrew its $11.5 billion offer for Vivendi Universal's entertainment businesses. C4

Rough Road for MCI
Accusations that MCI used fraudulent schemes to cut charges could make it harder for the company to keep customers and find new ones. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Shutting John Poindexter down; nurturing a fragile Mideast peace; a fallible prostate cancer test; Serge Schmemann on the curtain coming down for Herbie.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); MISTRIAL (83%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ARRESTS (75%); LOBBYING (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); HIJACKING (72%); BUDGETS (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GUATEMALA (92%); LIBERIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



711 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Tax-Cut Tour 2003, at a Factory Near You 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WAUSAU, Wis., July 29 

 BODY:
A trio of Cabinet secretaries rolled by bus today across an ailing industrial swath of the upper Midwest, where they spread a message of sunshine about President Bush's economic policies to an edgy and often skeptical public.
 On the first half of a two-day, six-city, 550-mile road trip, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao motored westward in a luxury coach with black leather sofas and a mirrored ceiling, soon to be used by the rock band Aerosmith, to promote the president's tax cuts. 
 Mr. Snow spoke to audiences in a clipped, assertive cadence, Mr. Evans was enthusiastic in mellifluous Texas tones and Ms. Chao struck the cheery manner of a woman who seemed thrilled to be touring a forklift rental company, a frozen custard maker and a Harley-Davidson motorcycle plant. But the three members of Mr. Bush's economic team offered an identical view to their listeners: the president is concerned, but the economy will improve. 
"It's important I think for people like us who spend so much time inside the Beltway to get outside the Beltway," said Mr. Snow as he sat with Mr. Evans and Ms. Chao on the "Jobs and Growth Tour"' bus as it rumbled past the cornfields of Highway 29 in central Wisconsin. The lesson he took from his day, he said, was the vitality of American business and the realization that "you can't spend time at Harley-Davidson without being deeply impressed."
Democrats attacked the bus tour as a Bush administration feel-good publicity stunt and said that it was nothing more than a campaign trip in two important political states, Wisconsin and Minnesota, that the White House has identified as important for 2004. 
"It's a slap in the face," said Kim Warkentin, the executive director of the Wisconsin state Democratic Party. "We've lost over 42,000 jobs in Wisconsin, and they're out there touting their economic plan when it's not addressing the needs of low-income folks."
Mr. Snow defended the road trip, calling it a "dialogue tour," and said that the Cabinet threesome was listening to the concerns of ordinary citizens.
The secretaries on the bus heard plenty of those concerns at the first stop of the day, just outside Milwaukee at the Harley-Davidson factory, a popular pilgrimage spot for American politicians of both parties. After a tour of the plant that makes Harley engines and transmissions, the three listened to Harley employees and suppliers question what they called the administration's rosy economic forecasts. Much of the concern centered on foreign competition.
Michael Retzer, a Republican and a consultant to Ram Inc., a Harley-Davidson supplier, said he did not see how the administration's tax cuts would stimulate the economy when so many consumers would spend the extra money on goods manufactured overseas. Mr. Snow answered by saying that the rate cuts were "pretty sizable tax relief," which did not satisfy Mr. Retzer.
"They danced around it," he said, adding, "Right now I am very disillusioned with the Republicans' policies."
The bus tour was timed to capitalize on the income-tax rate cuts that went into effect this month and the first of the $400 child tax credit checks, which were mailed out last week.
"Did you get your check?" Mr. Snow asked a table of customers at Culver's Frozen Custard and ButterBurgers in Wausau. John Tubbs, a bank senior vice president, told Mr. Snow he had not.
"He said they've just started going out -- the check's in the mail," Mr. Tubbs recounted after the secretary had moved on from his vanilla frozen custard. 
The three secretaries said they had never traveled on a bus together before -- and certainly not one also used by Aerosmith. "I didn't bring their albums with me this time," Mr. Snow said during a joint press briefing.
A protest bus followed the secretaries' bus throughout the day. Hired by Wisconsin Citizen Action, it contained some two dozen people who waved placards at each stop, from Milwaukee to Green Bay to Wausau, saying, "Read Bush's Lips: No New Jobs."
Ms. Chao took issue with the notion that people were upset with the president's economic policies, and told employees at the Harley-Davidson plant, "There are still a great many employers and companies who are looking for workers with the requisite skills." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); FROZEN DESSERTS (68%); MOTORCYCLES (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEY-DAVIDSON CO 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ELAINE CHAO (89%) SNOW, JOHN W (SEC); BUMILLER, ELISABETH; EVANS, DONALD L (SEC); CHAO, ELAINE L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WAUSAU, WI, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (69%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) WISCONSIN; MINNESOTA

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



712 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2333 words

HEADLINE: With Tightened Belt, New York Pulls Back From Fiscal Brink 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
For the first time since the terrorist attacks in 2001, there is evidence that New York City is emerging from its fiscal crisis, a startling turnaround that is a result of a budget formula consisting of higher taxes, service cuts, extra aid and greater government efficiency.
 The city will still have to close a budget gap next year, as it has every year for more than two decades. But the boost provided by tax increases and belt-tightening will recur, which should allow the city to close the gap without extreme measures. 
 In other words, the city -- which is budgeted to have its smallest full-time city-financed work force since 1986 -- is no longer standing at the edge of a fiscal cliff, city fiscal monitors and commentators from bond rating agencies and budget watchdog groups agree.
"The city clearly has emerged from that period of fiscal crisis," said Robert A. Kurtter, an analyst in the public finance group at Moody's Investors Service. 
Similarly, Rae D. Rosen, a senior economist and officer at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said, "Both from a fiscal and an economic sense for New York City, the worst is behind us."
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, speaking at a homeowners' association meeting last night in the Bronx, offered a similarly upbeat prognosis.
"I think, in all fairness, the worst is over," he said.
The best evidence, the monitors say, is that the scale of the deficit projected by the Bloomberg administration for next year is significantly smaller than the one the city just overcame. The gap, estimated at $2 billion, translates into 6.1 percent of the anticipated city revenues in the year that begins next July 1. That percentage is the lowest one-year gap projection since 1995 and the third-lowest since the end of the Koch era. 
By comparison, a year ago, Mayor Bloomberg's one-year gap projection was 13 percent of city revenues, the highest since at least 1981.
None of this is to suggest that the city has fully recovered from its fiscal malaise; it clearly has not. Significant hurdles remain that could easily cause a painful relapse. New York State, for example, is still in pitiful fiscal shape and could try to cut its aid to local governments in the coming year. Settling city labor union contracts will also most likely prove to be much more expensive than Mr. Bloomberg's budget projections suggest.
Much depends on the city's economy, which is showing signs that it has bottomed out and may be on the verge of improving. Unemployment is dropping. Wall Street profits, for the first half of the year, are way up. Tax revenues are coming in slightly higher than projected. Still, the city economy has a long way to go toward full recovery.
Yet even after taking these caveats into account, New York City is indisputably in much more stable financial shape today than it was just a few months ago.
"Michael Bloomberg was dealt a very difficult hand when he took office, a terrible fiscal crisis," said Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, who is a Democrat and a former political rival of the mayor. "He promised to make some extraordinarily painful decisions to get us out of the situation. And he has done so. We may disagree with this particular tactic or that particular tactic, but essentially they have dealt with these deficits. They have done the right thing."
Even some fiscal conservatives, like E. J. McMahon, senior fellow for tax and budgetary studies at the Manhattan Institute, a research group, agree that the fiscal health of the city, at least in the short term, has improved. "We are in a state now where the financial fever has passed," he said. "What that means is they are not watching their revenues erode with each passing quarter and not having to play catch up. But that doesn't mean they have fixed the fundamental problem."
Tomorrow, the city's fiscal health will be the topic of the annual meeting of the Financial Control Board, an entity created in the wake of the mid-1970's fiscal crisis to monitor the city's capacity to remain solvent. Mr. Bloomberg is scheduled to testify.
The control board's staff has already put out a report asserting that the situation has improved. It called the balanced budget for this year "an achievement of no little note," and said that while the remaining tasks required to complete a recovery were complicated and by no means certain, they were "hardly insurmountable." 
Even the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a pro-business watchdog group, which gave the city a grade of C yesterday for its budget package (the state received an F), said New York had dug itself out of a deep hole, at least temporarily.
"We have moved past the immediate crisis and into a long, tough slog," the president, Diana Fortuna, said.
The $2 billion deficit that the Bloomberg administration must close by next July 1 may sound like a lot, and it is. But it is also part of a chronically fiscally challenged way of life in New York City, where mayors always want to spend more money than they expect to raise in taxes. That sets off the annual budget dance, in which the mayor proposes cuts in everything from libraries to parks, negotiates with the City Council and arrives at a settlement that largely keeps spending intact. The situation becomes a crisis when major tax increases or layoffs are needed to balance the budget.
After city officials raised so many taxes and cut so many jobs this year to balance the budget, it may be more difficult to find new strategies to close next year's gap, even though the deficit is expected to be much smaller. 
But, Mark Page, the director of the mayor's Office of Management and Budget, said, "We're not looking at this frightening cliff for next year."
For city residents, this turnaround could translate into a quite tangible benefit. If Mr. Bloomberg honors his own financial plan, two of three major taxes that were increased this year will be cut: the tax on individual clothing items worth $110 or less, which is supposed to be eliminated by June 1, 2004, and the income tax increase on highest earners, which is supposed to start rolling back next year and be phased out by mid-2007.
Speaking last Friday on his weekly WABC radio broadcast, Mr. Bloomberg made it clear that eliminating those taxes remains his goal. "I would love to be able to, six years from now when I leave office, say that, you know, on balance we reduced taxes," he said. 
But Mr. Bloomberg's ability to do that remains precarious. It will depend primarily on two factors: his ability to win at least some concessions from labor unions and to get at least level funding from the state. 
He is in a tricky political situation, as well. If he were to openly declare the city's fiscal crisis over -- even though arguably it is -- he would in effect be hurting his chances of getting what he needs from the unions and the state. That ability to contribute to his own failure is part of the reason why Mr. McMahon, Ms. Fortuna and Mr. Kurtter say that the new stage the city has entered may be just as dangerous as the last.
"After 9/11, for a time there, it was virtually unanimously recognized, across all segments of the population and among all the key interest groups, that things have changed," Mr. McMahon said. "A serious shift had occurred in the city's prospects and dramatic steps would have to be taken.
"This was a moment," he continued, "when the unions could have been confronted much more powerfully with the need to make significant concessions."
Now, he said, the urgency has passed. "All of the key segments of the community are getting lulled into sense of complacency," he said.
Mr. Hevesi, the state comptroller, shares some of those concerns. And William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, who is not as optimistic about the city's fiscal condition, cautioned the Bloomberg administration about revenue projections.
But, Mr. Thompson added, echoing others: "We have moved beyond the point of crisis. We are still in a state of serious challenge."
The single biggest component of the administration's effort to close an $8 billion budget gap this year was tax increases. The 18.5 percent increase in property taxes will generate $1.7 billion, the increase in the personal income tax will bring in $644 million and the sales tax will draw $377 million. 
Although Albany refused to give Mr. Bloomberg virtually any of the things he had requested to help balance his budget -- a commuter tax proposal went nowhere -- the state wound up helping the city in a big way. About $474 million in state education aid that Gov. George E. Pataki had cut from the state budget was restored by the Legislature.
An additional $675 million was added to the pot in the form of higher payments to the city from the state-owned Battery Park City, extra education aid and permission to sell more taxicab medallions, among other items. The state also agreed to effectively assume the cost of paying off debt from the city's 1970's fiscal crisis, saving the Bloomberg administration $530 million. 
The federal government came through, too, with $232 million in special Medicaid aid. 
Mr. Bloomberg started the budget-balancing process as soon as he arrived in office, following a burst of spending toward the end of the Giuliani administration and a dive in the city's economy linked to the tech bust and the aftermath of 9/11.
The Bloomberg administration cut expenses and raised the property tax in the fiscal year that ended June 30, giving the city a $1.3 billion surplus that it could roll over to this year. And by cutting out planned increases in spending by many agencies, reducing some services and finding ways to operate the government more efficiently or at least on someone else's tab, it cut an additional $2.1 billion in city spending for the new fiscal year. 
Altogether, the assistance, taxes and fiscal self-control totaled enough to close a seemingly catastrophic budget gap.
Though the overall budget went up -- to $43.66 billion for next year, including an increase of 5 percent in city-financed spending -- many agencies had their spending reduced this year. The budget, in fact, calls for a $185 million reduction in spending by the agencies, or 1 percent less spending by the agencies than in the year that ended June 30. 
As a result, the city has fewer police officials. It has closed six fire companies. It is laying off thousands of school paraprofessionals and teacher aides. And it has cut back its support for libraries and cultural institutions, although by not nearly as much as had been threatened. 
City agencies today have 9,016 fewer full-time workers than they did two years ago -- about 4,000 full and part-time workers are being laid off -- bringing down the total city-financed work force to 200,276 employees. That is the lowest it has been since 1986, meaning Mr. Bloomberg has already cut out all the employees Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had added by the end of his tenure, in the booming economy.
But other costs of government are still rising, and at a very fast clip. Largely because of the stock market declines, pension costs rose to $2.5 billion in the current fiscal year from $1.3 billion in 2002. The cost of paying off long-term city debt is also rising, in part because of heavy borrowing during the Giuliani era.
Most of the gap-closing budget measures the city has adopted will have recurring benefits. And, if the economy continues to improve, tax revenues will grow still more, even if some of the tax increases are phased out. Mr. Bloomberg, then, would not be the first mayor to see his fiscal fortunes rise with the stock market.
There is some reason to be hopeful that might happen, said Ms. Rosen, from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. While the securities industry, one of the most important drivers of the city economy, reported $6.9 billion in pretax profits for all of 2002, it has already reported $7.4 billion in pretax profits for the half year that just ended. Large commercial banks also reported a good second quarter.
In part as a result, income tax withholdings from New York City residents are rising, an important sign of a possible economic turnaround, Ms. Rosen said. 
And unemployment dropped to 8.1 percent in June, from a high of 8.8 percent in February, leading Ms. Rosen to predict a net rise in the number of jobs in the city in the fourth quarter.
"The worst of the recession appears to be over," said Thomas H. Marks, an economist in the Office of the State Deputy Comptroller for New York City.
The city's fiscal story can quickly turn ominous again. New York State, which balanced its budget this year with borrowing and other one-shot solutions, remains in a fiscal crisis and could react next year by slashing its aid to New York City. If the mayor is unable to win any significant concessions from the labor unions and then agrees to raises, even ones that merely match inflation, it would add $1.2 billion to the expense ledgers next year that he does not have in his spending plan. (He has insisted that he will only approve raises that are paid for out of money-saving changes in work rules.) 
The economists could turn out to be wrong in predicting the end of the recession. The city may decide it cannot afford to roll back the taxes it had promised it would, perhaps driving businesses and residents away, a scenario conservatives raise. And, of course, there could be another terrorist attack or other calamity.
For this reason, budget watchers who agree that the crisis appears to be abating, add in the next breath that the situation is tenuous. J. Scott Albrecht, a senior portfolio manager at Federated Securities Corporation, had stopped investing in New York City debt in early 2001, as the city's economy stalled. Just recently, he started buying city bonds again. 
"They have endured this fiscal crisis better than anyone would have expected," he said. "It is definitely a manageable situation now. But the city today has less of a margin for error than it has had any time in the past 10 years."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STATUS REPORT: Closing Today's Budget Gap Narrows Tomorrow's"Faced with an $8billion dollar budget gap for the 2004 fiscal year, New York City received substantial assistance from New York State. But the majority of the gap was closed by raising taxes and cutting spending, actions that will continue to ease future budget shortfalls. How the gap was closed* Federal action: 3%State actions: 23%City actions: 26%Tax increases: 34%City surplus from 2003: 16% CITY ACTIONS (millions)Spending reductions: $1,800Increased agency revenue: 300 STATE ACTIONSEducation aid restoration: 474Assumption of city debt: 530All other state actions: 525Airport lease settlement: 200Battery Park City payments: 150 FEDERAL ACTIONHigher Medicaid payments: 232 TAX CHANGESProperty tax increase: 1,700Income tax increase: 644Sales tax increase: 377 SUBTOTAL: 6,932Surplus from 2003 fiscal year: +1,300Reserve and tax adjustments: -170 TOTAL: $8,062 Percentages do not add to 100 because of rounding. Today's city governmentThe city government is at its smallest since the Koch administration . . . Graph tracks full-time city-paid employees (in thousands) from 1980-2004. (The following persons are tracked:KochDinkinsGiulianiBloomberg . . . and most city agency spending is level or down, even without accounting for inflation. CITY SPENDING (in billions)Dept. of EducationFiscal years2002: 4.792004: 5.13 Police Department2002: 3.102004: 3.13 Pensions2002: 1.332004: 2.46 Health and Welfare2002: 1.702004: 1.53 Fire Department2002: 1.062004: 1.02 A look ahead The city's projected budget gap for the coming fiscal year is the smallest since 1995 . . . Graph tracks budget gap (percentage of city revenue)One-year projections from 1975-2003 . . . and the economy shows signs of recovery. Graph tracks Wall Street profits (Jan.-June) from 2000-2003. Graph tracks unemployment rate (seasonally adjusted) from 2000-2003. (Sources by City Office of Management and Budget, Office of the State Deputy Comptroller for New York City, Office of State Comptroller, N.Y. State Labor Dept.)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TRENDS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



713 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2995 words

HEADLINE: Defying Labels Left or Right, Dean's '04 Run Is Making Gains 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN with DAVID ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: OTTUMWA, Iowa, July 25 

 BODY:
During a special live broadcast of the Vermont Public Radio program "Switchboard" before an audience of Iowa Democrats here, the host played two audio clips of his guest, Howard Dean.
 The first, from Dr. Dean's 1999 State of the State address, delivered when he was governor of Vermont, was a staid, nonpartisan call to view all Vermont as one community. In the second, which came from the official kickoff of Dr. Dean's presidential campaign last month, you could practically hear fists flying as he shouted over and over, "You have the power!" and "We're going to take our country back!" 
 Back home, said the radio host, folks have been wondering, "What has gotten into Howard Dean?" 
Vermonters are not the only ones pondering that question. After more than a year of nonstop visits to Iowa and New Hampshire on a threadbare budget, supported mainly by volunteers who had connected over the Internet, Dr. Dean, who began as an antiwar gadfly, has in the past month burst from his obscurity to rank among the top contenders in a crowded field of Democrats for the party's presidential nomination. 
Thanks to his stunning surge as the top fund-raiser among the potential Democratic candidates in the second quarter, Dr. Dean now has a campaign budget to match those of more-established candidates like Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. 
The $7.6 million Dr. Dean raised in the quarter -- mostly in small contributions from 59,000 people -- has led to increased attention, greater scrutiny and dogged determination from his rivals to halt his momentum.
With his early and intense opposition to the American-led attack on Iraq, his call for universal health insurance and his signing a bill that created civil unions for gay couples in Vermont, Dr. Dean, 54, is seen as the most liberal of the major Democratic candidates. Many of the people donning his "Give 'em hell, Howard" buttons hail from the left wing of the party and beyond. 
But in Vermont, whose political center of gravity lands left of the nation's, one of the secrets to Dr. Dean's success was keeping the most liberal politicians in check.
Over 11 years, he restrained spending growth to turn a large budget deficit into a surplus, cut taxes, forced many on welfare to go to work, abandoned a sweeping approach to health-care reform in favor of more incremental measures, antagonized environmentalists, won the top rating from the National Rifle Association and consistently embraced business interests. 
After winning the first of his five elections for governor by more than 50 points, he barely got a majority in 2000, in part because of third-party challenges from the left that, in the 2002 election absent Dr. Dean, helped hand the governor's chair to a Republican.

A Pragmatic Politician
In the green, hilly quiet of Vermont, Dr. Dean, a stockbroker's son who grew up on Park Avenue in Manhattan and in Sag Harbor, N.Y., is viewed not as an idealistic maverick, but as a shrewd politician who always kept one ambitious eye on the next step. Even the civil unions bill, sure to cost him among conservatives nationally, was considered a cop-out by some gays and liberals at home who say he did only what was demanded by state courts and signed the bill "in the closet," without a public ceremony. 
"In the Vermont political spectrum, he was a moderate or a centrist," said Eric L. Davis, a professor of political science at Middlebury College in Vermont. "In the spectrum of Vermont, he was not someone who was a strong supporter of left or progressive causes."
The difference may be as much a matter of style as substance. In fact, much of Dr. Dean's presidential platform, particularly his plan for universal health insurance, is a outgrowth of his accomplishments in Vermont. He remains a fiscal conservative, he believes gun control should be left to the states and he favors the death penalty for some crimes.
But in building an insurgent campaign as a Washington outsider, Dr. Dean has gained fluency in the populist language of political revolution, constantly repeating the fact that half his contributors have never before donated to a candidate.
"The way to beat George Bush is not to be like him," he told a rally of 600 people overlooking the harbor in Portsmouth, N.H., on July 22. "The way to beat George Bush is to give the 50 percent of Americans who don't vote a reason to vote again."
Many of Dr. Dean's issue papers do run counter to the centrist positions of the Democratic Leadership Council that have dominated the national party since Bill Clinton's emergence in 1992. On Monday, in fact, in a critique clearly aimed at Dr. Dean, the group warned that the party was in danger of embracing "far left" policies that would ensure its defeat next year. 
Dr. Dean vows to repeal Mr. Bush's tax cuts to pay for health care and other social programs; he insists that all abortion decisions be left to women and their doctors, and advocates alternative energy sources like wind ("I can see Karl Rove chortling about that Birkenstock governor," he says at every stop, referring to Mr. Bush's senior adviser). 
And while he sees marriage as a religious issue, Dr. Dean said during the radio show here at the Hotel Ottumwa that all states should find a way to ensure that gay couples have the same rights as straight ones, something that sent several people away shaking their heads.
"I don't think it's their prerogative not to treat Americans equally," Dr. Dean said of the states, adding later that he remained unsure how, as president, he might force individual states to adopt plans for providing benefits. "This is not a country that was built on discriminating against other people."
But over all, Dr. Dean's presidential pitch is more pragmatic than ideological. He is less George McGovern than John McCain, less Eugene McCarthy than Jimmy Carter (his first job in politics was stuffing envelopes for President Carter in the 1980 presidential campaign, and he has adopted President Carter's habit of staying in voters' homes rather than hotels). 
Many who met him over four days in New Hampshire and Iowa said they were inspired not by a checklist of issues but by his straight talk -- a phrase the campaign is reluctant to use, since it was practically trademarked by Senator McCain in 2000. Several voters said they loved Dr. Dean's willingness to say "I don't know," as he did, for instance, when asked whether pictures of Saddam Hussein's dead sons should be released to the news media.
"Whether you're right or wrong, if you're honest, it won't matter," said Lee Cassenn, a former chairman of the Keokuk County Democrats who turned up on Thursday to meet Dr. Dean at the Copper Lantern restaurant in Sigourney, Iowa. 
Between stops at a hospital in Concord, N.H., and an orchard in Canterbury, N.H., last Wednesday, Dr. Dean said that he was selling his character. Voters "give you wide latitude on the issues if they like the way you make decisions," he explained.
"I have no right to be where I am if you look at this race on paper," he added the next morning on the plane to Iowa. "The reason I am where I am is because I say what I think."
But as Dr. Dean has transformed himself to a valid contender in the race, examinations of what he says and thinks have intensified. 
Among the most carefully scrutinized are his evolving critiques of the Iraq war. With other Democrats now criticizing the administration for overstating intelligence concerns about Iraq and uranium, Dr. Dean has been claiming that he was the only major Democratic candidate who had been unconvinced by President Bush's evidence on weapons of mass destruction. But earlier this spring, he said repeatedly that he did believe Iraq had such weapons and just did not think an American-led invasion was the right solution.
"Governor Dean is simply reinventing his own position and that of others, and that's the rankest kind of politics," said Jim Jordan, campaign manager for Senator Kerry, Dr. Dean's leading rival in New Hampshire. "He was an unemployed doctor with no responsibilities, and it was easy to sit there and take political potshots from the outside."

Leaving a Mark in Vermont
 Like George W. Bush before him, Dr. Dean often points to his experience as a state's chief executive as qualification for the job. When Mary Hartley, 49, an unemployed woman drowning in $91,000 in student loans, expressed skepticism about false promises after Dr. Dean's recent talk at Taso's restaurant in Oskalossa, Iowa, he urged her, "Go see what I did in Vermont."
With about 600,000 residents, 97 percent of them white, Vermont is hardly a typical state; its largest city, Burlington, has fewer than 40,000 people. The poverty rate is below the national average, but so are wages and per-capita income. 
The Democrats who dominate the State Senate sometimes advocate things that have been abandoned as lost causes in Washington, like higher income taxes and government-run health care, while the Republicans who hold a narrow majority in the State House of Representatives rarely espouse the social conservatism that dominates the party elsewhere. 
Dr. Dean graduated from Yale University in 1971 -- five years after Mr. Kerry, three years after Mr. Bush, and one year after Garry Trudeau, whose "Doonesbury" comic strip has featured the Dean campaign for weeks -- and attended Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York before moving to Burlington, where he ran an internal-medicine practice with his wife, Dr. Judith Steinberg. 
He first dipped his toes in political water in a 1978 campaign to build a bike trail around Lake Champlain. He spent four years in the Vermont Legislature and five as lieutenant governor, both part-time jobs, before being elevated to the top job in in 1991, when Gov. Richard Snelling, a Republican, died of a heart attack. 
He inherited a state budget deficit of about 11 percent, the highest income taxes in the country and the lowest bond rating in New England.
To the dismay of liberals in the Legislature who wanted to expand social and environmental programs, Dr. Dean and his chief economic adviser, Harlan Sylvester, a conservative stockbroker and investment banker, stuck with the Snelling budget-cutting plan. Helped by a booming economy, the state's finances improved sharply. Dr. Dean lowered income tax rates by 30 percent and put away millions in a rainy day fund. Vermont's bond rating became the highest in the Northeast.
In his last term, Dr. Dean won a change in law so that Vermont taxes were not automatically lowered by Mr. Bush's cut in federal income taxes, and Vermont had a comfortable surplus this spring when most other states faced crippling budget shortfalls. On the stump, he blames the federal deficit for the weak economy and derides Mr. Bush for running "a borrow-and-spend credit-card presidency." Mr. Bush's tax cuts, he say, are a gift to "the president's friends like Ken Lay," referring to the former chief executive of Enron.

Standing Up for His Beliefs
 Other than the state's finances, the area where Dr. Dean most made his mark as governor was health care.
When he entered office, Dr. Dean was determined to provide health insurance to everyone in the state in one fell swoop. Despite support from liberal lawmakers, his plan failed, along with a similar initiative by the Clinton administration.
So Dr. Dean changed tactics and managed to accomplish much of his goal incrementally. Vermont now offers the nation's most generous health benefits to children, low-income adults and elderly residents of modest means. Almost all children in the state have full medical insurance, and more than a third of Vermont residents on Medicare get state help in paying for prescription drugs. 
Under the program, teenage girls can often get counseling about sex and contraception without their parents' knowledge.
Dr. Dean promised that as president he would spend half of the money he would save by repealing Mr. Bush's recent tax cuts to provide free insurance to people under 25 and those who earn less than 185 percent of the poverty rate, and to let everybody else buy into a national plan for 7.5 percent of their gross income.
"My plan is not reform -- if you want to totally change the health-care system, I'm not your guy," Dr. Dean told supporters in Lebanon, N.H. "I'm not interested in having a big argument about what the best system is. I'm interested in getting everybody covered."
Dr. Dean earned the National Rifle Association's highest rating in its ranking of governors by signing two bills that protected gun ranges from commercial development and shifted responsibility for background checks to the federal government from county sheriffs. He says he would enforce federal laws banning assault weapons and requiring background checks, but would leave the rest to the states.
But the two most controversial bills Dr. Dean signed were forced on him by State Supreme Court decisions declaring the state's school financing system unconstitutional and demanding the same legal benefits for gay couples as for married heterosexuals.
In both instances, Dr. Dean mostly stayed in the background and left the heavy lifting to the Legislature. He insisted only that income taxes not be raised; the Legislature then turned to property taxes in wealthier communities to subsidize schools in poorer areas. And he pressed the state not to sanction gay marriages, although he allowed civil unions.
Although Dr. Dean flirted briefly with the idea of running for president in 2000, he says it was the civil union battle that finally convinced him to do so. "I realized you could win by standing up for what you believe in," he said.

A Real National Contender?
The question now is whether Dr. Dean can capitalize on the current momentum to convert what began as a long-shot bid to raise concerns about President Bush into a serious national campaign. The fund-raising windfall has prompted the campaign to speed plans to hire workers in eight states, including the union strongholds of Michigan and Wisconsin. 
But Dr. Dean's lack of national experience has already tripped him up, most notably when he flubbed a series of detailed questions about military deployment on "Meet the Press" in June. Aides say they will prepare better next time. 
His surge also creates the risk that he could peak too soon. "He's got the hot hand, no doubt about it," said Charlie Cook, the legendary handicapper who edits the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. "At the same time, to be the hot candidate and to have momentum in July, six months before the first people vote, I'm sure they would much rather be in this position four months from now." 
Just as critically, his prominence could raise expectations for his performance in the neighboring state of New Hampshire. At his current pace, some analysts say, even a second-place showing in New Hampshire would be damaging. 
On the other hand, while many insurgent campaigns like Dr. Dean's rely on results in Iowa and New Hampshire to attract money and attention, Dr. Dean's campaign manager, Joe Trippi, said the early fund-raising success gave him a safety net. 
Regardless of the results in those first two states, Dr. Dean will probably still have money in the bank and staff on the ground to compete elsewhere.
But his prominence also makes him a tempting target for the rivals he threatens, particularly Mr. Kerry, whose campaign also expects to do well in New Hampshire. 
"These campaigns are in some respects like musical chairs -- when the music stops, there's only going to be two candidates sitting," said Chris Lehane, Mr. Kerry's campaign spokesman. "We know we occupy one of those chairs. More and more, it looks like Dean is going to occupy the other."
The only major Democratic contender who doesn't have another job, Dr. Dean has been on the road since February 2002. He has logged 34 days in Iowa and 27 in New Hampshire so far this year. 
Dr. Dean typically speaks without notes except for the names of people he wants to thank. Instead of a formal speech, he juggles about 20 distinct paragraphs, each with their signature phrases -- the most effective is the disgusted, sardonic "we can do better than that" that often punctuates his indictment of the president's performance. 
This keeps him fresher, but despite all that time on the road, it sometimes leads to inelegant stumbling. 
"He needs to do more polishing -- he's not as brilliant as Clinton -- but at least he's real," Sheilah Rechtschafter, a painter and teacher who lives in Garrison, N.Y., said to a friend after hearing Dr. Dean in Portsmouth, where she was visiting.
Dr. Dean travels with just one longtime aide, and his wife has no plans to join him on the campaign trail. His staff recently convinced him to wear newer suits and lose the colorful "Save the Children" ties, but he is hanging on to his odd belt, with its large buckle and silver-rimmed holes, that once belonged to his brother, Charlie, who was killed in Laos in 1974 while traveling with a friend. 
Lately, a campaign that was built almost organically by disenfranchised voters who connected online has turned to more mainstream sources. Dr. Dean now spends much of his down time dialing Democratic governors and New Hampshire state legislators. 
He also has had conventional fundraisers in Provincetown, Mass., and on Cape Cod. On the West Coast, his supporters include Rob Reiner, Martin Sheen, Mel Brooks, Norman Lear, Nora Ephron and Larry David. 
But with that kind of backing, it is not surprising to hear the question that a man posed to Dr. Dean at a house party for 200 on the muggy sea coast of New Hampshire: Isn't he too liberal to get elected?
"If being a liberal means a balanced budget, I'm a liberal," Dr. Dean said, delighted at the opening. "If being a liberal means adding jobs instead of subtracting them, then, please, call me a liberal."
"I don't care what label you put on me," he finished, "as long as you call me Mr. President!"

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about Howard Dean's campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination misspelled the name of the Iowa city where he spoke at Taso's restaurant. It is Oskaloosa, not Oskalossa.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Gov. Howard Dean, right, spoke to potential supporters in Albia, Iowa, on Thursday. Dr. Dean has spent 34 days campaigning in Iowa this year, preparing for the state's Democratic presidential caucuses. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times); A crowd gathered on July 22 in Portsmouth, N.H., to listen to a speech by Howard Dean. Dr. Dean has received unexpected support in his bid for the Democratic nomination, much of it coming from the Internet. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times); Howard Dean, shown here celebrating his 1996 victory over John Gropper, was governor of Vermont for 11 years, from 1991 to 2002. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); FIREARMS (83%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC RADIO (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); TRENDS (64%); TERRORISM (63%); GUN CONTROL (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRIMARIES; FINANCES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ORGANIZED LABOR; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; ENVIRONMENT; FIREARMS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; GUN CONTROL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) ;NATIONAL RIFLE ASSN 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) DEAN, HOWARD (DR); WILGOREN, JODI; ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (98%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (92%) VERMONT; IOWA; NEW HAMPSHIRE; IRAQ; 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003 



714 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1855 words

HEADLINE: Tackling Architecture With a Table Saw 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
THE seven members of MADE, a young architectural firm in Red Hook, Brooklyn, were sitting in their office working two weeks ago. The office is a makeshift metal shed inside a woodworking shop in a 19th-century brick warehouse. It looks more like a trailer parked on a job site than an architectural office.
 "I mean, we got an office when we needed somewhere to put the table saw," said Ben Bischoff, 30, one of MADE's founding partners. Mr. Bischoff sat at a conference table with Oliver Freundlich, 30, and Brian Papa, 29, the firm's other two principals. 
 On the table were three Polish breakfast breads and a lifelike plastic Chihuahua and dachshund, both wearing modish attire. MADE is working on a boutique in New York for Trixie & Peanut, a pet-accessories business. MADE is also starting demolition shortly on a town house for Mr. Freundlich's brother, Bart Freundlich, a film director, and his fiancee, Julianne Moore, the actress. MADE, more than an architectural office, is what its members call a design-build firm. In addition to providing design, MADE encourages clients to employ the firm as a general contractor. It also constructs aspects of the design in its own shop and installs them on the site. 
For a would-be homeowner faced with the issue of whom to hire for a residential project -- an architect, a contractor or a craftsman -- design-build would seem the best of all worlds. But it is not a perfect universe.
Typically, an architect sells a design to a client, who invites bids from contractors to build it. Design-build companies like MADE hope to realize their design as closely as possible, by executing it themselves. They also offer clients a kind of one-stop shopping that streamlines the realization attractively. By integrating the process and assuming responsibility for it from beginning to end, design-builders say that they eliminate confusion and contentiousness between architect and contractor, save time and money and deliver the design as designed.
But design-build also means putting all of your eggs in one basket.
"Culpability," Mr. Freundlich said, defending the procedure. "The client can turn to one entity and find out what's going on."
Peter Moore Smith, a novelist and a creative director at BBDO, and his wife, Brigette Roth Smith, hired the company to create a wall of storage and display in their loft near City Hall in Manhattan. Mr. Smith said of the appeal of design-build, "It's confidence that the finished product will look the way they say it's going to look -- knowing there's something in it for them for it to look right."
In removing the two potentially factious parties from a project, you also remove what many consider the security of "checks and balances." Trust becomes tantamount to risk in choosing whom you work with.
Another client, an investment manager who for reasons of privacy asked not to be identified, said of an apartment that MADE completed for his family on the Upper West Side, "My judgment was that this was a group dedicated to getting it right." But he added, speaking of design-build, "If you made the wrong selection, it could turn out to be a disaster." 
The client, who spent three years restoring a house in San Diego with an architect and a contractor, said that MADE's combined costs were largely comparable to a conventional arrangement. The company charges a design fee, as any architect would. In place of a fixed-price bid on the construction cost, MADE uses a "cost plus" contract. It charges its client for materials and bills by the hour for labor. It also adds a "profit and overhead" fee ranging from 15 to 20 percent, depending on the project. The fee is a percentage of the cost of materials and labor. MADE agrees with its client on a maximum, beyond which it won't bill, as a security against money spent, if not time.
The process can be more expensive if a designer operating as a builder takes longer to construct a project because of inexperience or an inability to stop playing with the design. 
It can also be less expensive. Discrepancies between the design and the feasibility of building it, which are inevitable, don't result in "change orders" -- changes on the site that the client is charged for in addition to the agreed-upon bid -- which are hidden costs in the contract. And because there is no impetus for the contractor to make a profit by shaving costs off a fixed price for materials or labor, there is a relative assurance of quality. 
Design-build companies are not new. The equation has been increasingly successful in the construction industry, particularly for large commercial development, as builders take the lead in securing projects by offering design services, too.
But architects, frustrated by a partnership that often demoted the designer to the status of an employee who answered to the builder, are now seizing the initiative, investigating design-build as a more satisfactory -- and satisfying -- approach to their own profession.
"It's the way the practice is moving, and it's the way clients are doing things," said Gregory Kessler, the director of the School of Architecture and Construction Management at Washington State University in Spokane. "I see architectural offices switching. In some respects, it gets back to the way architecture began, where architects were craftsmen. Students see it as a more reasonable way of getting their ideas built."
Design-build became popular as a more "holistic" method of making architecture in the late 1960's, when the architect Charles W. Moore developed the Yale Building Project, a program at the Yale School of Architecture, where MADE's three principals met and worked together in the 90's. The ideals of design-build have survived as a kind of counterculture being reassessed by younger architects puzzled by their own irrelevance to certain domains like new home construction and frustrated by life in an economically challenged ivory tower of pure design.
An American Institute of Architects survey in 2000 reported that 30 percent of its members had been involved with design-build in some form, up from 10 percent in 1996. 
Design-build has also been popular, and particularly appropriate, as a socially aware program involving architectural students with the housing needs of local communities, as in the grass-roots work of Samuel Mockbee, who was a professor at the Auburn University School of Architecture, Design and Construction in Alabama. Mr. Mockbee, a patron saint of the movement, proudly described his studio as "Redneck Taliesin South."
Do you get better work by hiring architects to build? Or are you hiring the most overqualified construction workers in history, and paying them to gain the experience your average contractor has?
Paul Brouard, who has directed the Yale Building Project for 30 years, observed that design-build was changing, trading idealism for practicality and making itself a more viable alternative to traditional practice. "There is more involvement from the building trades," Mr. Brouard said. "The design-builders are saving the special craft of things for themselves and leaving the dog work to subcontractors." MADE employs subcontractors, for construction expertise as well as for basic labor-saving, presenting the client with three bids on each subcontract.
"It's evolving," said Mr. Papa of MADE. "We're realizing that our time is not best spent framing or Sheetrocking, because there are people who can do it better, faster, cheaper than we can." 
While the balance of having an architect and a contractor might help keep both in check, there are clients who see nothing but opportunity in the potential for problems between them.
Richard Belle, editor of Design-Build Dateline, the monthly newsletter of the Design-Build Institute of America, which has roughly 1,000 members, 22 percent of them designers, said of friction on a job between architects and contractors, "Owners thrive on these situations, in order to make changes." He characterized the setups as "who shot Jane?" scenarios in which finger-pointing between professionals allowed clients to make last-minute changes without charge by playing the two parties against each other.
Despite the lure of full control and added profit, many architects interested in design-build don't want the headache or liability of construction.
Markham Smith, a principal with Smith Dalia Architects in Atlanta, said he offered a modified version of design-build, which meant bringing construction professionals into the design early in the process. Smith Dalia has managed and built projects itself, which Mr. Smith said was a good way to get "quality work and control your costs," but he explained of the clients' attitude, "you've got to have confidence in a group of folks like that."
Jack Murphy, the owner of Lullwater Studio Architects, also in Altanta, tried a one-year merger with a contractor as an experiment in an integrated design-build office, but discontinued it because his partner assumed, as is common in his industry, that construction would call the shots.
Speaking of his work method now, Mr. Murphy said: "We handpick our contractors. We look like we're a design-build firm, but we're not." He explained the advantage. "With two bosses, we come in as equals. We're big on collaboration, but we can bust each other's chops." In true design-build, Mr. Murphy observed, "if you've got power, it becomes absolute power. The potential for abuse is there."
He added: "I'm not going to play general contractor. What happens when the construction side of your brain says, 'That costs too much'? As a designer, I don't rule anything out first. Design-builders may never see a truly great idea."
Others contest the value of the check and balance in a two-sided system. "The adversarial relationship as a level of protection is fictitious," said Angel Martinez, president of Martinez & Associates Architecture and Construction in Overland Park, Kan. Mr. Martinez is also the chairman of the design-build committee of the American Institute of Architects. Addressing a client's nervousness over a lack of recourse to a second authority, Mr. Martinez said, "What I tell them is that if something's wrong, I'll fix it."
At MADE, where a horseshoe of desk space rings the conference table like the counter at a diner, one has the sense, watching its members at work at late-model laptop computers, that it is a youthful company that believes you can put together buildings the way you do friendships -- with an element of design and a lot of hands-on work. MADE, whose first year in business was last year, when its revenue was $650,000, has billings this year of $1.8 million. But that has not dispelled the atmosphere of dorm life -- book cubbies crowded with motorcycle helmets, messenger bags and anoraks.
Jesse Robertson-Tait, MADE's newest employee, is not an architect. Mr. Robertson-Tait, 26, is a builder with a high school education. As a successful independent contractor, he is in effect becoming a build-designer. What were his thoughts on working at an architectural office with an Ivy League crew?
"I'll be taking a pay cut, it's true," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FINISHING WHAT THEY START -- Above, left, MADE renovating an Upper West Side apartment. Right, the final product. Top, the members of the firm outside their office and workshop in Brooklyn, from left, Sarah Strauss, Oliver Freundlich, Annie Barrett, Brian Papa, Jesse Robertson-Tait, John Nafziger and Ben Bischoff. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; below at left, MADE)(pg. F1); HANDS ON -- Above, members of MADE installing a wall of cabinetry at a loft in New York. They constructed the units at their workshop. Right, the finished project.; FROM LAPTOP TO POWER TOOL -- MADE's founding partners, from left, Brian Papa, Ben Bischoff and Oliver Freundlich, in their shop. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; far left, MADE)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (77%); DOGS (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



715 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Cut in Space at Ground Zero May Bar Home for City Opera 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
The floor space available for a performing arts center for ground zero has been reduced by about 20 percent, say officials involved in drawing up the plans, making it harder to build an opera house there.
 It was this reduction of the available floor space, or footprint, to between 35,000 and 37,000 square feet from some 45,000 square feet in the original Daniel Libeskind plan that led the corporation in charge of the rebuilding effort last week to say there is no room for an opera house at the World Trade Center site. 
 Officials of the New York City Opera, which wants to leave Lincoln Center for downtown, were troubled by the comments; the opera has been talked about as the lead contender for the site's cultural anchor. 
In public, however, development officials are now hedging their bets, saying that no option is foreclosed for the two cultural buildings on the site, a performing arts center and a museum. 
This uncertainty arises in part because the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation overseeing the rebuilding of ground zero has just invited cultural institutions to submit proposals for the site. On Monday night at an informational forum for cultural institutions the corporation said the dimensions of the cultural buildings would be determined by the groups selected to occupy them. 
But given the reduction in the space available and the footprint that City Opera says it needs, it would seem that a significant change in plans would be needed to accommodate an opera house. The opera has proposed a new house with a 60,000-square-foot footprint, Paul Kellogg, general and artistic director of the opera, said in an interview yesterday -- so 40,000 square feet would appear to be severely inadequate.
The opera now has 53,000 square feet at the New York State Theater, which it shares with the New York City Ballet. When the State Theater was built in 1964, its backstage space was curtailed at the last minute because of budget cuts. Because of these cramped quarters, as well as acoustics that were designed for dance and to muffle sound, City Opera craves its own home. 
Mr. Kellogg said the opera would be open to making some space adjustments, as the developers could be. "I'm sure there is flexibility within the site," he said. "They have the dimensions that we need. This whole process has to play out."
In addition to 2,200 seats and ample backstage space, the opera needs space for sets, costumes, dressing rooms, rehearsals and offices. The development corporation's invitation to cultural groups describes the performing arts center as several stories high, amounting to an overall square footage of 150,000 to 250,000 square feet.
John C. Whitehead, the chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, who has championed City Opera's downtown interests since earlier this year, made a point of saying in interviews this week that the opera was still welcome in Lower Manhattan -- if not on the site then somewhere nearby. City Opera is also considering a site in BatteryPark City, though it prefers to be at ground zero.
"The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation wants the City Opera to be able to find a home in Lower Manhattan, and City Opera very much wants to find a home in Lower Manhattan," Mr. Whitehead said. "They would prefer to be in the 16-acre site, but if they can't be fit into the 16 acres, they are willing to look at alternatives."
Mr. Whitehead disputed the assertion by his chief operating officer, Matthew Higgins, that the recent space determination had made the possibility of an opera house unlikely, suggesting some internal dissent or miscommunication within the development corporation. 
There have been doubts that an opera house can generate the kind of 24-hour activity that planners want for the site, meant to attract both local residents and tourists. 
Mr. Kellogg said City Opera's programming and schedule at ground zero would be very different from its current practices, with more matinees and musical theater. City Opera's mission is to offer affordable tickets, he added.
Mr. Kellogg and Irwin Schneiderman, chairman of the opera, have said they are optimistic about being able to come to the project with ample financial support.
The development corporation is expected to provide $200 million to $300 million to cultural organizations selected for the site. Mr. Whitehead said some of this money could also be used to help cultural groups elsewhere downtown. 
"The money will be spread thinly over many organizations," Mr. Whitehead said.
At the forum for cultural groups, Richard J. Schwartz, the chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts, emphasized economic viability, saying, "Most of the funding will have to be self-generated."
Mr. Schneiderman said the opera was proceeding with its application, due by Sept. 15. "If there is a will to get it done, it can be done," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); BALLET (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); DANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); BUDGETS (61%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OPERA 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



716 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Weak Earnings Dent Optimism in Japan 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 30 

 BODY:
Those betting that Japan's economy was on the mend were dealt a setback today when two of the country's largest technology companies reported weak quarterly results and figures showed industrial production unexpectedly falling in June.
 The dismal news, which sent stock prices skidding 2.1 percent, is another reminder that Japan's tepid recovery is far from even. While some automakers and electronics manufacturers are flourishing, many other companies continue to struggle with bloated payrolls, stiff competition and rapidly changing technology. 
 Despite growing optimism among investors and policy makers, many economists have cautioned that the 27 percent rise in the Nikkei 225 index since late April does not necessarily mean the economy is recovering. Their concern proved correct.
The Toshiba Corporation, the semiconductor maker, said today that its losses in the three months to June nearly doubled, compared with the period a year earlier, catching many analysts by surprise.
Another technology bellwether, Matsushita Electric Industrial, said its profits in the first quarter of Japan's fiscal year slipped 22 percent.
The reports come less than a week after Sony reported that its profits plunged 98 percent. Toshiba, Sony and Matsushita, which sells under the Panasonic brand, all rely heavily on the United States market for profits, so their poor results suggested that demand in the United States remains sluggish.
Toshiba said its wider loss was partly a result of a decline in personal computer sales overseas, while Matsushita cited "setbacks in the U.S. and Southeast Asia," even though the impact from the war in Iraq and the SARS virus had diminished.
"Signs of economic recovery emerged as the quarter progressed, but the overall business environment remained severe," Toshiba said in a statement.
Toshiba reported a loss of 36.8 billion yen ($307 million), compared with a loss of 18.8 billion yen in the period a year earlier. Sales fell 6 percent, to 1.12 trillion yen.
Matsushita earned 2.7 billion yen ($22.5 million) as sales fell in each of the company's major product groups. Over all, sales were down 2 percent, to 1.76 trillion yen.
Investors hammered the companies' shares, with Toshiba sliding 8.4 percent and Matsushita declining 5.4 percent. Over all, the Nikkei fell 201 points, to 9,632.
These companies are so large that any hiccup in their fortunes ripple through Japan's economy. The slowdown in their sales contributed to a worse-than-expected 1.2 percent decline in industrial production in June. Economists had expected a 0.4 percent increase.
The bumpy recovery has highlighted some of the larger problems facing Japan's electronics companies, which are trying to find ways to halt the decline in their share of the global electronics market. While the technology they pack into their products is still well regarded, they are being forced to cut prices to compete with rivals from South Korea, China and elsewhere.
Toshiba, Matsushita and others have vowed to concentrate on products that are growing quickly, like digital cameras, laptop computers and cellphones. In the process, they want to be thought of as makers of cutting-edge technology, much like Sony.
The strategy, as Sony has found out, is difficult to execute when consumers demand lower prices and technology becomes less distinguishable.
"It requires years and lots of money to build a premium brand," said Jonathan Hurd, vice president for broadband and media practice at the Adventis consulting firm in Boston. "The question is whether you can come up with products to stake out positions for your brand."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers in Beijing consider Toshiba products. The company reported a wider quarterly loss yesterday. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (74%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); BONDS (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (52%); SARS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPANY REPORTS; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (94%); PANASONIC CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: TOSHIBA CORP; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO 

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (94%); 6502 (TSE) (94%); PC (NYSE) (71%); 6752 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (71%) SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT; SIC3575 COMPUTER TERMINALS; 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



717 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: All Bets Are Off 

BYLINE:  By Todd G. Buchholz; Todd G. Buchholz, a former White House economic adviser, is author of "Market Shock."

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO 

 BODY:
The so-called terrorism futures market sounded like a hoax: investors would have been able to make money from attacks and strife. Now that the red-faced Pentagon has closed down the project, it's appropriate to ask, "What were they thinking?"
 The Department of Defense argued that markets "are extremely efficient, effective and timely aggregators of dispersed and even hidden information . . . often better than expert opinions." That's true. The University of Iowa has a neat system allowing bettors to establish the odds for candidates in races in America and overseas. The Iowa markets have generally done a better job than pollsters at predicting the outcomes of elections. Markets also do a great job at more traditional tasks, like matching buyers and sellers and setting prices for everything from chickens to semiconductor chips. 
 Still, the Pentagon's concept is flawed. Markets are not very good at setting prices for rare events. Those who trade in the Iowa political exchange have the benefit of historical election results and daily polls; property insurance companies know full well when the Florida hurricane season starts. But could markets have given us a price for the odds of a shooting in the balcony of City Hall in New York? Sure, markets learn from experience. It's been a long time, though, since Aaron Burr shot Alexander Hamilton -- and that was across the river in New Jersey.
Before Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990, I directed a White House study on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Should we add to the reserve? What were the chances of a war in the gulf or an OPEC boycott like the one in 1973? These events take place intermittently and are hard to predict. But we had to make some estimates. Likewise, in order to allocate our domestic defense resources, we have to estimate the odds of terrorist events on the ground, in the sky or at sea.
Here again, markets work better when they are deep and liquid -- that is, with many participants and lots of transactions. This raises reliability and reduces the risk of manipulation. How deep and liquid could the market for terrorism futures be?
This was the problem faced by the Pentagon. To attract "investors," the Pentagon needed to offer a significant payoff. But with big payoffs, the incentive for market manipulation rises. And in the case of terrorism futures, market manipulation can show up not as a forged buy order but as a bullet.
Fortunately, existing markets already gauge worldwide risks. That's why the price of oil shot up to $38 per barrel in March before the war. Worried about civil unrest in southern Africa? Look at the South African rand or the price of gold. Professional investors regularly look at the interest rate spread between emerging market bonds and United States Treasuries to assess risk.
Before ridiculing the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, though, we should remember its mission: to finance and explore pathbreaking technologies that are not on the standard list of cocktail conversation. The agency started in 1958 as a response to the Sputnik launching, and backed speech-recognition technologies and antichemical warfare research long before they made headlines. Most famously, the agency developed the Internet.
Let's also remember that the defense of our country is serious business, demanding serious consideration of every idea that can help make America more safe -- even ideas that can make Americans squeamish. The Pentagon and the C.I.A. require analysts, informants and spies to sometimes trick and swindle their counterparts.
Plato taught that the rulers of the Republic might sometimes be required to tell "noble lies" for the good of its citizens. And sometimes, he might have added, our government must keep from us some unsavory truths. We know we live in dangerous times. We don't necessarily want our government running a market that tells us, down to the last penny, just how dangerous they are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); FUTURES (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); RIOTS (60%); EMERGING MARKETS (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TERRORISM; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; RESEARCH; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (57%) DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) BUCHHOLZ, TODD G 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



718 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: A Fed Survey Sees More Hints Of a Revival 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The economy offered some signs of faster growth in the last six weeks, including early evidence of a pickup in manufacturing, the Federal Reserve said yesterday in a survey of regional economies.
 The report, known as the beige book, said that information from the 12 Federal Reserve districts "provided additional signs that the pace of economic activity increased a notch during June and the first half of July." 
 It found "generally more positive assessments of current economic activity" and "increased optimism about economic prospects in coming months." 
Eight of the 12 regional banks reported "somewhat stronger growth." The Chicago, St. Louis and San Francisco bank districts reported continued sluggish activity, while Atlanta said conditions were mixed. No district said its economy had weakened since the last survey on June 11.
"Nascent signs of a recovery emerged in manufacturing," as 10 of the Fed's 12 districts reported "mixed, steady or slightly improved conditions after an extended period of declines," the beige book said.
Consumer spending was termed "lackluster" and prices little changed. "Price and wage inflation remained broadly in check" in areas other than health care, energy, transportation and insurance. 
The Fed's rate-setting committee will use the report's economic anecdotes when it next meets on Aug. 12. Last month, the Fed committee lowered the benchmark short-term rate to 1 percent, a 45-year low. A survey of economists has predicted that this time it will leave rates unchanged.
Yesterday's report dovetailed with recent comments from Federal Reserve officials on a stronger recovery. The Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, testified this month that there were tentative signs that the long slump in business investment was coming to an end. Such a revival would "tend to further boost incomes and output," he said.
The improved outlook for manufacturing reinforced some earlier hints of strength in the sector, which accounts for about 15 percent of economic output but also for most of the job losses of the last three years.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond prepared the report based on information collected before July 21. The anecdotes reported by the regional Fed banks from local businesses are meant to supplement the theoretical models and projections produced by the staff at the Federal Reserve board of governors.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Economy Improved in Some Regions"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis -- Continued growth was reported in residential real estate, consumer spending, manufacturing and agriculture. San Francisco (Includes Alaska and Hawaii) -- The region's economy remained sluggish. Small growth was reported in manufacturing. Retail sales were flat. Chicago -- A weak labor market contributed to sluggish economic activity. Manufacturing improved only slightly. St. Louis -- The region's economy was still weak. Manufacturing was sluggish, leading to plant closings and layoffs. Kansas City, Mo. -- The economy improved slightly. Layoff announcements slowed and manufacturing improved. Dallas -- Growth remained slow. Bad weather conditions continued to hurt agriculture. Drilling for oil and natural gas increased rapidly and then slowed. Cleveland -- The region's economy showed steady or improving conditions. Manufacturers reported increases in production and sales. Boston Tourism remained soft. Residential real estate stayed strong despite a slowing market. New York -- The economy continued to improve. The financial sector gained strength and the labor market continued to pick up. Philadelphia -- Manufacturers reported small increases in orders and shipments. Auto sales remained steady while retail sales grew. Richmond, Va. -- Some types of manufacturing were weak because of layoffs and loss of business to foreign competitors. Atlanta -- Economic activity was mixed. The market for single-family housing showed strength. Manufacturing remained weak. Map of the United States highlights the areas mentioned above. (Sources by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INFLATION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (65%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



719 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Decline on Technology Losses; Treasuries Advance

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Shares of many computer-related companies fell yesterday, pulling down the broader stock market. Treasury bond prices rose sharply.
 The chief executive of Intel, Craig R. Barrett, said yesterday that spending on technology would be little changed this year. 
 Microsoft and I.B.M. led the decline, as technology companies accounted for almost three-quarters of the slide in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
"People expected too quick a comeback in the techs," said Forrest Mervine Jr., who helps manage $1.3 billion at the Philadelphia Corporation. "They will have their day, but it's not going to be as easy as expected."
The S.& P. 500 fell 1.79 points, or 0.18 percent, to 987.49. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 4.41 points -- less than 0.1 percent -- to close at 9,200.05.
The Nasdaq composite index, with 41 percent of its value from computer-related companies, sank more, down 10.46 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,720.91.
Market breadth was negative for the third consecutive day. On the New York Stock Exchange, 1,670 issues declined and 1,557 advanced. On Nasdaq, losers outnumbered gainers by a margin of about 5 to 4. Volume decreased to nearly 1.40 billion shares from 1.51 billion on Tuesday.
Intel, the largest maker of computer semiconductors, fell 41 cents, to $24.49. Technology spending remains flat to down, Mr. Barrett said yesterday during an interview with a Morgan Stanley analyst, Mark Edelstone. 
Microsoft declined 24 cents, to $26.23. I.B.M. dropped 84 cents, to $80.96. But Cisco Systems, the largest network equipment maker, rose 12 cents, to $19.28.
Cree, which makes chips that light cellphones and dashboards, fell $3.18, to $13.43. The company said earnings this quarter would be 11 cents to 12 cents a share. Analysts had predicted 17 cents.
Genesis Microchip, a producer of chips for flat-panel computer monitors, fell $2.75, to $11. It said revenue would trail analysts' estimates, and also suggested that it was reconsidering a planned merger with Pixelworks, a larger rival. Pixelworks added 27 cents, to $6.77.
The S.& P. 500 information technology index slid 0.7 percent, paring its increase so far this year to 23 percent. Still, its advance is the biggest of the S.& P. 500's 10 economic groups.
AOL Time Warner fell 72 cents, to $15.17. The Wall Street Journal reported that the Securities and Exchange Commission had asked AOL for documents about a program that allowed companies to buy America Online accounts at low cost and then sell them to their workers. America Online executives were reported to have said that almost all subscriptions sold that way had been terminated. A spokesman, Ed Adler, declined to comment further.
Duke Energy, a big utility owner, dropped 86 cents, to $17.36. It said that profit last quarter slid 11 percent as energy-trading margins narrowed.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer rose $1, to $13.84. The company said on Tuesday that it was withdrawing an $11.5 billion offer for the United States entertainment assets of Vivendi Universal. Vivendi's American depository receipts dropped 69 cents yesterday, to $17.82.
Shares of the big health insurer Cigna jumped $3.57, to $45.37. Cigna was said to have hired Goldman, Sachs to arrange the sale of its pension business. A Cigna spokesman declined to comment.
CVS, the retail drugstore chain, gained $1.20, to $28.95. Its second-quarter earnings rose 14 percent as sales of generic drugs increased, and its results surpassed analysts' estimates.
In bond trading, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose by the most in two months. Late in the afternoon, the price of the note jumped 14/32, to 94 18/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.31 percent from 4.45 percent.
The yield has risen more than a full percentage point since mid-June, when it reached a 45-year low of 3.07 percent. 
The 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 12/32, to 101 27/32. Its yield fell to 5.25 percent from 5.34 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "TheFavorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); COMPUTER MONITORS (73%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (68%); SEMICONDUCTORS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); AOL INC (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); GENESIS MICROCHIP INC (53%); PIXELWORKS INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); AOL (NYSE) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%); PXLW (NASDAQ) (52%); DUK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



720 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Commodity Costs Soar, but Factories Don't Bustle

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Prices of industrial commodities are rising swiftly, signaling that the manufacturing economy is rebounding. But one question still remains: When is that rebound going to be seen in the United States?
 The demand for copper and other metals, textiles, rubber, plywood and red oak, and crude oil and other petroleum products is pushing up the Journal of Commerce-Economic Cycle Research Institute index of 18 commodities at an annualized rate of 13.7 percent, a hefty acceleration since the index's recent low on May 13. 
 The growth is across the board and not isolated in one sector. The annualized growth rate in prices in the metals sector has jumped to 14.3 percent from 4.8 percent on May 13, while the pace in the textile sector has moved to a rate of 8.5 percent from 5.6 percent. 
In petroleum products, the annualized rate of decline has slowed to 4.3 percent from 19.6 percent as demand has picked up. And in lumber, hides, rubber and tallow, the growth rate has swung to 23.5 percent from a decline of 0.1 percent.
The overall index was falling at an annualized rate of 0.3 percent on May 13.
While the current annualized growth rate in the index is still below the recent high of 19.6 percent in February, Anirvan Banerji, director of research at the Economic Cycle Research Institute, said, "This is suggesting there is real strength in the industrial economy." He added, "The ambiguity here is which industrial economy it is." Recent economic data indicate that the manufacturing pickup is outside the United States, especially in China.
Jobs in the manufacturing sector in the United States are still on the decline, falling by 56,000 in June, while jobs in other sectors, including services and construction, increased. Since the overall number of payroll jobs peaked in February 2001, 90 percent of the 2.6 million jobs lost have been in manufacturing.
Economists who are forecasting an economic rebound and President Bush, who needs a rebound to aid his re-election campaign, have all been waiting for some time for a turnaround in manufacturing. Without a rebound, unemployment will continue to be a drag on consumer spending and consumer confidence.
All this makes the July employment report and the July manufacturing index from the Institute for Supply Management, both due out tomorrow, especially interesting. But forecasters are not expecting a lot of good news.
Wall Street's current consensus forecast for the July manufacturing index is 52, according to Bloomberg News. A number above 50 means the manufacturing sector is expanding, so that is positive. In addition, the lowest forecast among the 65 analysts who participated in the survey was 50.1.
But even if the forecast is right, 52 is still below the 55.20 of December and would be only the first reading above 50 since February.
As for manufacturing jobs in the employment report, the consensus forecast is for a decline of 33,000, while overall payroll jobs are expected to rise by 10,000. Of the 16 economists' predictions for manufacturing jobs, none call for an increase in payrolls, with the smallest decline at 10,000.
So it is no mystery why President Bush sent Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao on a two-day road trip this week to Wisconsin and Minnesota to talk up the economy.
But the three were faced immediately with the report on Tuesday of an unexpectedly big drop in consumer confidence in July. The Conference Board's index fell to 76.6 from 83.5; the consensus of forecasters had been for an increase, to 85.
Mr. Snow said he still expected the economy to be stronger in the months ahead. But the consumer confidence decline makes it more likely that the July employment report tomorrow could be even less encouraging than the forecasts indicate.
Commenting on consumer confidence, David J. Greenlaw, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley, said the "weakness in consumers' views of the labor market draws into question recent signs of improvement such as jobless claims and poses some risks for Friday's employment report."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Raw Materials Rebound"The annualized growth rate of The Journal of Commerce-E.C.R.I. index of 18 industrial commodities. Graph tracks the growth rate of The Journal of Commerce-E.C.R.I. index of 18 industrial commodities since Jan. (Sources by Economic Cycle Research Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); TEXTILES (72%) FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



721 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: North Dakota Town's Payoff For Hard Lives Is Long Life 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: ASHLEY, N.D., July 27 

 BODY:
In this tidy old faraway place, small lawns without fences mimic 1940's haircuts, shaved just an inch high. Chris Maier mows around his newly painted and shingled two-bedroom ranch house and grows tomatoes, peppers and onions in back.
 Mr. Maier is quick-witted, quick-footed, a little deaf and 91. Yet reaching 91 in Ashley, 100 miles south of Bismarck along two-lane roads, hardly merits a toast. 
 "My dad was 89," said Mr. Maier, who like most other people here is descended from Germans who fled Russia more than a century ago. "My mother was 87. I got a sister who died last year, a little over 100. I have a brother who is 98 and a brother 87. Another brother died last year. He was 92." 
In January, Mr. Maier lost his wife of 67 years after she turned 90. He takes just two over-the-counter painkillers a day, for his sore knees. 
Whatever the travails of old farming communities of the Great Plains, with population decline and temperatures that swing 120 degrees from January to July, something about these places produces triple-digitarians even as people plug their arteries with sausage, strudel and dumplings soaked in gravy.
Survivors of scarlet fever and smallpox epidemics, the Dust Bowl and the Depression, they have been cracking 100 at least since 1950. The 2000 census found that McIntosh County, where Ashley is located, had the highest proportion of people 85 and older among the nation's 3,142 counties. North Dakota had the highest proportion among the states.
The census found that Florida, Pennsylvania and West Virginia had higher proportions of people 65 and older. But many of their elderly die in their 60's and 70's; North Dakotans tend to keep aging. The census found 162 North Dakotans 100 or older, also near the top among states in relation to the total population.
These North Dakotans may be biological artifacts, the recipes for their health beyond bottling or replication by baby-boom office dwellers in big cities and suburbs. Clean air; going slow; patience; a low-cost, low-stress economy for all but active younger farmers; decades of heavy lifting outdoors; keeping an eye out for one another; long stable marriages; an absence of sharp differences in income and wealth all may contribute, people here speculate.
Except for houseflies and the volunteer ambulance, nothing much hustles in McIntosh County, population 3,390, and Ashley, its seat. Driving up to intersections awash in prairie dust, cavernous General Motors sedans of the 1970's and 80's linger because no one worries about pulling out first.
Retired wheat farmers and ranchers, now settled in town, can walk the three or four blocks to Ashley Drug, the Super Valu grocery store, the bank, the churches, the Ashley Medical Center (a combined hospital, nursing home and assisted living home), Link's True Value hardware, Kirk's Detour -- a bar with ashtrays that no one uses -- and the Dakota Family Restaurant.
Every morning at 8, the older men of Ashley gather for 75-cent coffee at a table in the Dakota's front room. Older women gather in a room in back. Until 10 or 11 a.m., they come and go. The women discuss grandchildren, food, health and farming, the men politics, sports, health and farming. They kid a lot. 
"These guys came over on the Mayflower," said Jim Carlsen, 72, retired director of emergency services in Sturgis, S.D., and an outcast, he said, as a Swede. "This one came on the Pinta. Schlep, tell him about your relationship with Moses."
But the real business of the tables is watching out for one another. "The cafe is where the networking takes place," Klaes Welch, the county director of social services, said. "If somebody doesn't show up for coffee, it would cause a lot of chatter, and someone will check on him."
One reason for the high numbers of elderly here is that a lot of young people have left. McIntosh County's population slid nearly 16 percent in the 1990's, while North Dakota's hardly grew. But the old who grew up and stayed here also live longer than most other Americans.
A decade ago, the National Center for Health Statistics found that North Dakotans lived to an average of 78, two to three years longer than the national average then. Lately, a look at the McIntosh County courthouse's death certificates shows, lifetimes here frequently stretch past 80.
Last year, 51 people died in the county. A woman reached 100, and a man, 99. Excluding a baby who died at two weeks, 27 women died at an average age of 85, and 23 men died at an average age of 80 -- exclude a 41-year-old rancher who froze in a blizzard, and the average was 82. The ancestries of most were recorded, and all but one were German or German-Russian. The exception was a Swede.
"They live longer in the Great Plains States," said Richard M. Suzman, associate director of the Behavioral and Social Research Program at the National Institute on Aging in Washington. "Community and neighborhood are important. So is the level of positive integration, neighborliness, looking out for others. Close-knit communities can be oppressive at one level. But they're also associated with higher life expectancy and better health."
The theory of the "healthy immigrant" might apply here, Dr. Suzman added. Many forebears of McIntosh's elderly were themselves emigres from Germany to southern Russia. Then, facing conscription into the Russian army in the 1880's, the boldest and hardiest fled to the Plains.
"My great-grandfather walked miles across pasture to stake a claim here," Tony Bender, 44, editor and publisher of the Weekly Ashley Tribune, said.
High school diplomas and college educations are often correlated with longevity. But of the 51 people who died last year, 33 stopped school before the ninth grade and one -- the woman who died at 100 -- stopped after the third. Most completed rural elementary school, but were then needed to work on the farms.
Gerontologists say high-fat diets shorten lives, but there is little evidence here that fat, salt, sweets or cholesterol struck down many of these people before 80. Heart disease accounted for three times as many deaths last year as cancer, the second leading cause; diabetes was a factor in 14 of the heart disease deaths. But diabetics died at an average of 83 years; one made it to 98.
Esther Eszlinger, 78, said concerns about calories and fat never intruded upon her meal planning. "You ate what you had," she said. Even today, Mrs. Eszlinger said that like many women, she has two kitchens, the extra one for canning. "You can can sausage. I have peaches and pears, chickenand canned hamburger. I canned wild goose last year. When you come to my house, I can have dinner done in a hurry."
Dr. Udom Tinsa, who grew up in Thailand and has been Ashley's principal doctor for 26 years, said, "The diet surprises me. "They have a high meat diet, but they live long."
A reason, he thinks, is decades of heavy exercise. "They're strong," he said. "They don't sit in an office. They live with nature." After passing farms on to children and moving to town, he said, "they go out to help their children work."
Swatting the air over her coffee, Esther Hildebrand, 78, said, "These kids these days will never amount to much because they don't want to work." She and her husband Clifford, 77, have always kept busy. "Big gardens," she said. "Big yards. We milked 18 cows. Canning. We make our own sauerkraut. I can everything. Pumpkins. We've got stuff in our own food cellar going back to '96."
Wednesday night is German night at the Dakota. Last Wednesday, the menu was two pieces of chicken deep fried to the texture of asphalt shingles, sliced and boiled carrots and potatoes, two fat round dumplings, and strudel, pie or ice cream.
Having finished his dumplings and gnawed his chicken down to dry bone, the Rev. George Rueb was working on a bowl of chocolate and vanilla ice cream.
At 86, retired and twice widowed, he was a little down. "This past January," he said, "I had pneumonia. I was supposed to have a hip replaced, but I had a heart attack. After the heart attack, I was in the hospital again with another pneumonia."
Pastor Rueb was one of 11 children of poor farmers. As a baby, his older sister, fed only mother's and cow's milk, died of starvation. He would have died too, he said, if not for the milk of a horse.
"I was in the seventh grade," he said, "when my dad said, 'I need you home.' I did not go to theology school but I took courses at home by mail." As a teenager, he became an assistant to an Assemblies of God pastor. At 20 he began his own congregation. His first marriage lasted 60 years.
McIntosh County makes aging easy. At the Sinclair gas station, the attendant washes windshields. Attendants at the Super Valu carry groceries to cars. Buses from the senior center provide rides to doctors in Bismarck.
With little crime, doors stay unlocked, car keys stay in ignitions. "For my job, there's not a lot of action," said Chief Brooke D. Bundrock, at 26 Ashley's only police officer. "We do a lot of community policing, public service, helping the older people. I had a call where an elderly lady wanted me to shut her neighbors' gate because they were away."
Ashley's elderly live on fixed incomes, and many are poor, but the Social Security check goes a long way. The nightly special at the Dakota is $5.99. Greens fees for a round on the city's nine-hole golf course are $8, or $15 for all day. Rents are low. The county sheriff, Paul J. Peters, who is 26, pays $200 a month for a four-bedroom house with a garage and a large lot for his family of five.
Homes sell for an average of $30,000. "The property tax on that home would be $544.35 a year," Delbert Heil, the county tax director said. Outside the towns -- Ashley, Wishek, Lehr and Zeeland -- farmers are exempt from property taxes.
In the towns, owners of 197 of the 1,900 homes receive a state homestead credit on property taxes. Those with incomes of less than $8,000 pay nothing, and those with incomes up to $14,000 pay reduced rates.
Because of homeowners' fixed incomes, Mr. Bender, the publisher, said, "it's hard to ask them for more tax dollars." But he said they have gone along with a special tax assessment to fix city streets. After all, they may be still driving on them when they have to be fixed again.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Paul Goehring, John Reich, Chris Maier and Jim Carlsen network at the Dakota Family Restaurant. Garhard Kempf is partly obscured. (Photo by Will Kincaid for The New York Times)(pg. A22) Chart/Map: "Growing Old on the Great Plains" Map of United States highlighting percentage of county populations 85 and older in 2000. (Source by Census Bureau)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); COUNTIES (69%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (68%); AGING (68%); NURSING HOMES (68%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (68%); WHEAT FARMING (67%); SMALLPOX (65%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (63%); SEDANS (62%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); EPIDEMICS (51%); VOLUNTEERS (50%) POPULATION; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; CENSUS; AGED; LIFE STYLES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: BISMARCK, ND, USA (91%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) MCINTOSH COUNTY (ND)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



722 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
A market in terrorism indicators was a good idea; it just got bad publicity.

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California at Berkeley.

 BODY:
THE Pentagon-sponsored futures market in terrorism indicators was announced and squashed in all of two days. Too bad. It was a good idea, killed by terrible public relations.
 Consider the problem that intelligence agencies face. They have to consider the likelihood of various destabilizing events -- like assassinations or terrorist attacks. That's a major part of their job; there's no way around it. 
 In assessing such likelihoods they draw on expert opinion, but they also make considerable use of market data -- oil price futures, currency exchange rates and the like -- to see how market traders assess risks of political instability.
Markets do an awfully good job of forecasting many events and trends. The futures price for oil is about the best predictor available for this critical commodity, and it is widely used for forecasting by both political and economic analysts.
The question is whether speculative markets would work well for other policy-relevant events.
There is lots of evidence that they do. The Iowa Electronic Markets, www.biz.uiowa.edu/iem/, has been predicting election results for 12 years using a system very much like the one that the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency at the Pentagon proposed.
One of the markets the Iowa exchange offered was in vote shares: what fraction of the vote went to the Democratic or Republican candidate. It is particularly easy to assess the outcome of such a market and to compare it with alternative forecasts, like public opinion polls.
As it turns out, these political stock markets provided somewhat better forecasts than polls right before the election -- and they provide much better (and less volatile) forecasts several months before the elections. Thus, markets do best exactly where the public opinion polls and expert opinion polls are weakest.
This is not an isolated example. Similar markets have been organized to predict shifts in Federal Reserve monetary policy, the outcome of political conventions and sales of consumer products. The results are that markets typically perform at least as well, and generally better, than feasible alternatives, and they are much cheaper to organize.
An online betting site based in Ireland, tradesports.com, is currently offering markets in "Kobe Bryant to be found guilty," "Next Supreme Court justice to leave bench," and "Gray Davis to be California governor on Dec. 31, 2003." Those concerned about the outcome of these events might be well advised to take a look at the odds, which reflect bettors' sentiments.
There is good reason to believe that a market set up to forecast the sort of political instability that leads to terrorism might work well, too. At least, there is enough reason to warrant an experiment, given the high payoff to having better forecasts of these events.
This is why the Pentagon thought it was important to finance research in this area.
The objections raised by politicians and opinion writers were generally based on misunderstandings of what was actually proposed.
Take the claim that terrorists could speculate in their own future activities and reap a windfall. First, the maximum gain from a trade was restricted to less than $100. This would not be of much help to terrorists' fund-raising activities.
Second, the market would have been monitored for evidence of insider trading. If someone managed to circumvent the trading limits and made a significant amount of money speculating on a terrorist attack, you could be sure the C.I.A. would be right behind the I.R.S. in investigating.
If the federal authorities were alert enough to find enough evidence to indict Martha Stewart, why would one think that Osama bin Laden would be able to avoid detection?
There were also objections that the auctions were immoral.
Senator Byron L. Dorgan, a Democrat of North Dakota, asked what would happen if another country set up a betting parlor where people wagered on the assassination of an American political figure.
I'm sure he is right that there would be public outrage. But let's turn the question around: If such a market were put in place, should the Secret Service monitor it? If there were an assassination attempt, should the authorities look for suspicious prior trading activity? And the most important question of all: If the market indicated that the probability of an assassination attempt went up, should the target take extra care? If you were a potential target, wouldn't you want the best possible forecasts of possible attempts on your life? I would.
I would also prefer that such forecasts not be quite so public. A private market in the probability of specific assassination attempts -- say within an expert community like the C.I.A. -- could make sense, assuming, of course, that it provided useful information.
Would Mr. Dorgan object to such an internal market as a way of aggregating expert opinion? I hope not.
In any event, assassination futures were not among the planned securities, contrary to most press reports. The market design allowed traders to propose securities in various events, and the Policy Analysis Market Web site speculated that some traders might propose to add securities in assassinations. That off-the-cuff speculative remark had fatal consequences, alas.
The securities that were an essential part of the auction design were indexes of political, economic and military activity. The most useful such market would probably have been a market for futures in a "political instability index," a weighted average of various political indicators, like the number of mass demonstrations, unemployment levels, arrests -- and, yes, assassination attempts. (Type "political instability index" into Google for some examples.)
If the markets had been pitched in this way, I doubt that there would have been many objections raised.
But instead politicians, reporters and editorial writers mistakenly jumped onto "assassination and terrorist attack futures" as a fundamental part of the market design.
Given the public outcry, it seems clear that there will not be a public market in assassination futures anytime soon. But there is no reason not to have a futures market in political, social and economic indicators, which is what the Pentagon's project was actually about.
We desperately need better ways to forecast political instability, and the Policy Analysis Market had significant promise. It's sad to see poor public relations torpedo a potentially important tool for intelligence analysis.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day yesterday about an abandoned Pentagon plan to create a financial futures market to gauge threats from terrorist attacks misstated an indicator that it would have measured. In addition to political and economic indicators, the market would have measured military ones, not social ones.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A futures market might bebased on a "political instability index," with one possible component being demonstrations like that in Geneva in June against the Group of 8. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); FUTURES (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); TRENDS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POLITICS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) TERRORISM; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (55%) DEFENSE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: VARIAN, HAL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



723 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Revive Production Of Oil in Iraq Is Announced 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: VIENNA, July 30 

 BODY:
Iraqi and American officials say they have agreed on a $1.6 billion plan to rehabilitate Iraq's oil industry over eight months.
 The plan would be the first step to overhaul an industry eroded by 12 years of United Nations sanctions and the last five months of war and looting, according to Iraqi and American officials and industry analysts. 
 "The rehabilitation plan is not to increase production but to take it back to previous levels," said Shamkhi al-Faraj, head of the Oil Ministry's economics department. "It would focus on facilities that have been damaged. There will be some below-ground work, some studies, but basically it is above-ground." 
The regime of Saddam Hussein pressed the oil industry to pump as much oil as possible, despite a shortage of spare parts under the United Nations sanctions strategy. As a result, analysts say, oil reservoirs were damaged and the quality of Iraqi oil suffered. Repairing the deterioration underground will take more time than eight months and a different initiative, they say.
The new plan focuses instead on pipelines, pumping stations and other plants that also suffered from a lack of spare parts and were disabled by widespread looting and sabotage after the war.
The goal is for Iraq to be producing 2 million to 2.5 million barrels a day by year-end, Mr. Faraj said, and to reach its prewar output of 2.8 million barrels a day by spring. But industry analysts who have recently visited Iraq say they think that such forecasts are optimistic, even with the new plan, given the dire state of the industry. Moreover, some recent repairs have been destroyed by looting and sabotage.
American authorities in Iraq recently issued an invitation seeking an international corporate security company to protect Iraq's oil pipeline system, Mr. Faraj said.
The rehabilitation plan was developed by the oil ministry and the United States Army Corps of Engineers, which has overseen the postwar repairs of Iraqi oil fields; the Kellogg Brown & Root unit of Halliburton; and the Coalition Provisional Authority, according to Walid Khadduri, editor of The Middle East Economic Survey. The head of the Corps of Engineers oil reconstruction effort, Brig. Gen. Robert Crear; the acting chief executive of the Iraqi oil ministry, Thamir Ghadhban; and the provisional authority's adviser to the ministry, Phillip J. Carroll, recently signed a memorandum of agreement to start the plan, a corps spokesman said today.
The plan includes 222 projects in the oil sector, and work has already begun on some of them, the spokesman said. All the projects are scheduled to be concluded by March 31.
According to a recent report by Mr. Khadduri, the United States will finance $1 billion for the repairs through Kellogg Brown & Root, and the Iraqis will provide the rest. "The management of the projects and construction work will be carried out by the Southern Oil Company and Northern Oil Company," Mr. Khadduri wrote, referring to the oil ministry's production branches. He added that the State Company for Oil Projects would also play a role.
Kellogg Brown & Root would handle the requisitioning of equipment and some of the engineering. More complex projects, Mr. Khadduri wrote, would be carried out by foreign companies. This includes the repair of the Fatha bridge and the oil pipelines on it in north central Iraq that were bombed during the war.
Another priority is the Qarmat Ali water pumping plant near Basra in the south that injects water into the wells in the vast Rumaila fields to build pressure to force out the oil. The successful restoration of those two sites alone would greatly aid production and exports.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An oil pipeline northwest of Baghdad was in flames last June. Now, the United States and Iraq are planning to revive production. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (75%); ARMIES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PRODUCTION; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN OIL CO INC (60%); KBR INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: KBR (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (52%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) FARAJ, SHAMKHI AL-; BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



724 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Big Pickup Trucks Grow In Both Size and Popularity
Sales of the largest pickups have been soaring for several years. But in coming months the competition for customers will accelerate as Japanese automakers rush into the market, now one of the most profitable.
 The trend toward bigger-than-ever pickups has broad implications for the safety of American drivers, the environment, oil consumption and the financial health of the auto industry. Big pickups are the most dangerous vehicles on the road for people riding in other vehicles -- much more dangerous even than large sport utility vehicles. Page A1. 

Plan to Revive Iraqi Oil Output
American and Iraqi officials, including the acting chief executive of the Iraqi oil ministry, Thamir Ghadhban, left, have signed a memorandum of agreement to start a $1.6 billion plan to rehabilitate Iraq's oil industry over eight months. The goal is for Iraq to be producing 2 million to 2.5 million barrels a day by year-end, and to reach its prewar output of 2.8 million barrels a day by spring. C5.

Clayton Homes Holders Accept Bid
Shareholders of Clayton Homes voted by a slim margin to accept a $1.7 billion takeover bid from Berkshire Hathaway. C3.

Main Stock Gauges Fall Slightly
Shares of many computer-related companies fell, pulling down the broader stock market. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.79 points, to 987.49. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 4.41 points, to 9,200.05. The Nasdaq composite index sank 10.46 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,720.91. C6.

The Treasury Department has taken a series of actions to restrict the use of life insurance to defer taxes on investments, especially in hedge funds. C5.

U.S. to Continue Astar Air Inquiry
The Transportation Department rejected a request by Astar Air Cargo, formerly DHL Airways, to drop an investigation into its ownership structure. C6.

S.E.C. Reviewing AOL Subscriptions
The Securities and Exchange Commission has asked the America Online division of AOL Time Warner to provide documents about its bulk subscription program. C3.

Aetna Soundly Beats Expectations
Riding a wave of growing prosperity in health insurance, Aetna reported a 28 percent jump in profits in the second quarter, to $138.4 million, or 87 cents a share. Operating profits, calculated before taxes and special charges, rose to $203.9 million or $1.28 per share from $91.8 million or 59 cents a share a year ago, surpassing analysts' expectations of $1.02. C6.

SK Global's Foreign Creditors Relent
The foreign creditors of SK Global, the debt-ridden trading firm for the SK Group, South Korea's third-largest conglomerate, yielded to intense pressure from the company's Korean creditors and accepted almost the same terms that they rejected last week for settlement of their loans. World Business, Section W.

British Air Settles Labor Dispute
British Airways and its trade unions have reached a settlement over a dispute that led to a wildcat strike, easing the threat of another walkout. World Business, Section W.

Why 'Terror Futures' Make Sense
Bruised by its critics, the Pentagon has shelved plans for a futures market in terrorist acts. That is too bad, because markets are remarkably efficient at assessing political risks. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,200.05 down 4.41Nasdaq composite -- 1,720.91 down 10.4610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.31% down 0.14The euro -- $1.1362 down 0.0116The dollar -- 120.21 yen up 0.53 Graph "TODAY" shows the percentage change in the G.D.P.Second-quarter figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.5% Graph tracks the share price of Aetna since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%); AIR FREIGHT (62%); EXECUTIVES (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ASTAR AIR CARGO (82%); AOL INC (81%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%); SK HOLDINGS CO LTD (50%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (81%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%); 003600 (KSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (82%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



725 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Noses Held, Budget Passes In Hartford 

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA

DATELINE: HARTFORD, July 30 

 BODY:
The Connecticut House of Representatives passed a two-year budget tonight that raises taxes and cuts spending mainly for the state's poorest, leaving lawmakers on both sides of the aisle muttering about how it was a bad deal that they supported only to end a stalemate that had dragged on for months.
 While the agreement still needs to be ratified by the Senate and signed by Gov. John G. Rowland, tonight's vote was viewed as an end to the wrangling over how to close a $1 billion deficit in the $13.5 billion budget for the first year. 
 After the vote, Moira K. Lyons, the House speaker, said she was proud of her fellow Democrats for coming together to vote for a budget they had so many problems with. "You kind of hold your nose and swallow the medicine," she said. 
The session dragged on into the night because the Democrats, who hold a majority in the House, did not want to pass the budget without a good number of Republicans also passing the budget. It was not so much that they wanted to share credit for a bipartisan deal as they wanted to be able to share the blame. 
After convening late tonight, legislators held what they said was the shortest session to debate a budget in modern state legislative history, with only five people taking the floor to speak. In the end, the vote was 87 to 56, with 24 Republicans voting to pass the budget.
During the debate on the House floor, the budget was often called "distasteful" and "unpleasant," but also described as the only way out of the deadlock. Since July 1, essential services in the state have been paid for by executive order, and the lack of a budget deal was beginning to affect communities across the state.
"Another month of debate will not lead to a better product," said Representative Robert M. Ward, the Republican minority leader, during the debate. He said it was a measure of the difficulty of the compromises lawmakers had to reach that the agreement "leaves nobody totally happy."
Governor Rowland said tonight in a statement, "I thank the leaders in both parties, Democratic and Republican, for their willingness to compromise."
The budget would close the deficit by raising taxes on corporations, slashing a rebate on residential property taxes to $350 from $500, and reducing cash benefits to the poorest people in the state. The changes come after the state government agreed to raise the personal income tax from 4.5 percent to 5 percent in February.
The compromises reached to balance the $14 billion second-year budget are more controversial. But some of the measures agreed to may never go into effect because they are largely contingent on how much money, in any, the state receives in federal aid. If the state does not receive enough aid, an inheritance tax would be imposed on estates worth over $1 million, even if Washington phases out the tax on a federal level. 
Connecticut would also borrow against money due to the state as part of a settlement with the nation's tobacco companies to raise $300 million, an idea that the governor a few months ago called "ridiculous." 
Finally, if not enough federal money is received, Governor Rowland will be given the authority to slash an additional $55 million from the budget without approval from the General Assembly.
However, even while the second-year budget is likely to change, Democrats viewed the fact that they were able to get Republicans to agree to a two-year budget as a political victory. Governor Rowland and Republican leaders had been pushing for a one-year deal.
For the Republicans, fending off Democratic efforts to put in place what has become known as a millionaire's tax -- which would have raised the income tax rates on only those making over $500,000 -- was viewed as a victory.
But, on the whole, there were not many places where lawmakers could, or even wanted, to claim victory.
After the fight over raising the income tax in February and agreement in the spring over some large cuts to balance the budget for the next fiscal year, which began July 1, the talks broke down over disagreements about how to cut the last $100 million.
"Something of a game of chicken was being played," said Senator William A. Aniskovich, a Republican from Branford. 
Mr. Aniskovich said Democrats, who hold a large majority in both the House and the Senate, were hoping to pressure the governor to force Republicans to move on their position to hold the line on new taxes or abandon the legislators completely and negotiate with Democrats directly.
After weeks of bickering it became clear that Governor Rowland was not going to split from Republican leaders. Last week, he brought in both parties for discussions. 
The governor, without socks and with his dog by his side, spent more than 10 hours on Thursday night locked in his office with lawmakers hammering out a tentative budget agreement. However, the deal they worked out would have cut all aid to childless welfare beneficiaries, worth about $18 million. It also would have cut about $10 million from local education grants. When Democratic leaders met with their caucuses, it was clear that a deal with those cuts would be impossible.
On Monday night, leaders from both parties met again in another marathon session that did not break up until 4 a.m. Tuesday.
The fragile deal, worked out only days before, almost fell apart three times during the evening. "I have developed a newfound admiration for emergency room technicians," said Senator Kevin B. Sullivan, a Democrat from West Hartford, one of the leaders in the discussions.
To get some of the money back for the welfare recipients, lawmakers agreed to postpone the repeal of a 6 percent tax on newspaper sales. 
Much of the money needed to close the deficit was raised through many small measures spread around a wide variety of areas. For instance, liquor stores in the state will be allowed to stay open an extra hour, a move that is expected to raise an estimated $2.1 million in additional taxes from increased sales, and the state will eliminate its one week when sales taxes are not charged.
Connecticut had been forced into a budget crisis because of economic conditions similar to those faced by states across the country. After nearly a decade of boom years, the revenue that states have become accustomed to receiving dried up significantly.
After tonight's vote, James A. Amann of Milford, the Democratic House majority leader, said that legislators swallowed hard and voted for the only budget they could all agree on.
"The reality of the situation is we are in the same boat as 46 other states," Mr. Amann said. "And when the boat is flooding, you save what you can." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); ESTATE TAX (73%); INCOME TAX (50%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Marc Santora; John G (Gov) Rowland

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



726 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Enjoy That Danish. It's Lifting the City's Employment Rate. 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The baguette, says Noel Labat Comess, is the fruit fly of bread.
 Its life span is abbreviated, an eight-hour rocket ride from exquisite to over the hill. That is one reason why Mr. Comess built his bakery close to Manhattan. And Manhattan is one reason his business will long outlive a baguette. 
 This year, Mr. Comess expects his Tom Cat Bakery to do $15 million in sales. That is up from $275,000 in 1987, the year it opened in Long Island City. The work force has grown to 170 souls, hand-shaping and hearth-baking 350 varieties of bread and rolls for sale to restaurants, corporate dining rooms and hotels. 
"We deliver two to three times a day," Mr. Comess said. "We have a very direct need to be close to Manhattan. We're not providing an emergency service, but we have fairly narrow windows within which to make those deliveries. People eat at noon and at 7, and bread goes stale."
Some might say that supplying artisan-baked bread to spoiled New Yorkers is a type of emergency service. Either way, the story of Tom Cat's success helps explain why the manufacturing of specialty and ethnic foods in New York City is growing in the midst of a recession, and at a time when other manufacturing industries are fading fast.
Between May 2002 and May 2003, the number of people working in food-related manufacturing in New York City jumped by 1,100, or 7.7 percent, said Marc M. Goloven, the senior regional economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. The number of jobs in all so-called soft-goods manufacturing -- the production of goods with less than three years' shelf life -- shrank by 10,500, or 11.2 percent.
"Food-related manufacturing has been bucking the trend of sharp job losses in soft-goods manufacturing at least over the past year," Mr. Goloven said. "Unless New Yorkers stop eating, there is a prospect that this industry could continue to grow in New York City. Clearly this is an industry that does not find it necessary to move to lower-wage climates around the globe."
Two types of food manufacturers seem to be doing well. One is specialty food companies catering to the cosmopolitan tastes of prosperous overachievers happy to shell out for convenience and quality, even in a recession. The other is ethnic food producers serving the growing number of immigrant communities in New York City and up and down the East Coast.
For many such companies, being in New York is an advantage. It offers quick access to a large market. Transportation costs are reduced, immigrant labor is abundant and the companies are able to stay in close contact with the shifting tastes of the customers they serve.
"The density of restaurants and restaurant customers is beyond belief," Mr. Comess said. "I jokingly say we deliver on a three-dimensional grid. We can have eight clients on a block and even in a single building we know someone on the 2nd, 4th and 68th floors. So the density is there and also the demand for a high-quality product.
"I have friends who have equivalent businesses in Minneapolis, for example," he said. "The number of people there who are willing to try something new, who have traveled and tasted these things and are willing to put up the money for it -- it's a much smaller percentage of the population. Here it's rich, in whatever way you want to apply the word."
What is more, at least some food is relatively recession proof.
"Wall Street may be hurting," said William J. Solomon, former president and chief executive of Voila! Bakeries in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn. "There are fewer people putting down payments on BMW's, but food is an affordable luxury. You may not be able to go out and buy the latest Prada ensemble, but you can treat yourself to a nice piece of Danish."
It is not clear exactly how many food manufacturers there are in New York City. A 1999 study by the New York Industrial Retention Network identified 540 companies, employing about 14,000 people. But Adam Friedman, the group's executive director, said official figures underestimated the size of the industry because part of it probably went unreported.
The companies tend to be small and family-owned, many of them with fewer than 100 employees. They rely heavily on networks of immigrant labor. Nearly half the companies surveyed by Mr. Friedman's group reported doing at least 40 percent of their business with customers beyond the city. And more than half the companies surveyed said they were looking for more space.
"New York is a great big test kitchen because of the diversity of the city," said Mr. Friedman, whose group is trying to help the food manufacturers expand into regional and national markets. "It incubates new products. So you have all these literally dozens of submarkets from each immigrant community incubating their new products."
Wonton Food in Brooklyn makes wonton skins, egg roll wrappers, noodles and two million fortune cookies a day in a 60,000-square-foot plant next door to a pretzel factory in East Williamsburg. In the 14 years since Wonton Food moved out of Chinatown in search of room to grow, its work force has nearly tripled from 100 to almost 300 people.
Pat's Exotic Beverages in the Bronx grew out of one woman's experiment making juices at home, said Lori Brown Griggs, the chief operating officer. Now it sells tropical juices and beverages in flavors like sour sop and sorrel to some 70 West Indian restaurants and bakeries, African-American restaurants and health food stores in Brooklyn, Harlem, the Bronx and Queens.
Cibao Meat Products was started in 1969 by a Dominican immigrant in upper Manhattan to sell salchichon, Spanish-style sausages, to other Dominicans. It now has 40 employees and a plant operating round the clock near the Hunts Point market. Its customers now include West Indians, Cubans, Puerto Ricans and others, said Edgar Soto, the only nonfamily member in management.
Earlier this year, Cibao introduced a new salami, salapeno, in hopes of expanding its reach to include more of the city's rapidly growing Mexican market. Similarly, Wonton Foods has been credited as one of the pioneers of a well-known crossover item, the chocolate fortune cookie. Pat's Exotic Beverages has been developing soy-based products including soy sour sop.
New York is not without drawbacks for food manufacturers. Space is expensive and in short supply. Some firms say they find the city a less than hospitable place. They say they are being squeezed out of industrial areas by real estate speculation and illegal building conversions that have left them at odds with their new neighbors.
Donald H. Lau, vice president of Wonton Food, said that after a nearby building that had housed a knitting factory was converted into lofts, the new neighbors began to resent Wonton's flour delivery trucks. "The so-called artists sleep till noontime," he said. "They say our trucks arrive too early. They throw eggs at the drivers. We had to call the police."
Jeffrey Levi, chief executive of John's Gourmet, a 12-year-old Brooklyn company that produces grilled salmon, grilled chicken and some 300 other prepared foods for specialty markets, supermarkets and delis, said that he felt that his company was being pushed out of Red Hook and that he had been unable to find affordable space in which to expand.
"The administration doesn't have a manufacturing plan or an industrial plan," Mr. Levi said. "These are businesses that employ thousands and thousands and thousands of working people. I don't employ 70 people from New Jersey, I employ 70 people from Brooklyn. If I didn't employ them, where would they get a job today?"
Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, said that over the past year and a half the city had helped secure some $20 million in financing to enable nine food manufacturers to expand and upgrade. He said the city had also invested $41 million in capital improvements to the Hunts Point produce distribution center and meat cooperative.
The administration is in the midst of a study of industrial businesses in New York City, Mr. Doctoroff said, to determine what the city's approach to promoting such businesses should be. The total number of manufacturing jobs in the city has dropped from about one million after World War II to about 200,000, he said. But the decline has been leveling off.
"I think there's a long history of not paying enough attention to the manufacturing businesses in this city," Mr. Doctoroff said. "In part, we are the victim of forces well beyond our control. But I think it's certainly also the case that we can be more thoughtful about what we do to maintain and to potentially grow the markets where we have a competitive advantage."
He added, "If you look at the food industry over time, I think we're evolving toward a niche specialty food manufacturing industry. And because of our ethnic base and the size of our market, it's a great base from which to build and obviously has export potential out of New York City."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Reynaldo Sostre, above, with some of the sausages that are the specialty of Cibao Meat Products, in the Bronx. Wonton Food in Brooklyn makes wonton skins, egg roll wrappers and noodles.; Tom Cat Bakery in Long Island City, Queens, expects to do $15 million in business this year. It started in 1987. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKERIES (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) Bakeries and Baked Products; Bread; Food; Economic Conditions and Trends; Bakeries and Baked Products

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%) Tom Cat Bakery

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: Janny Scott; Noel Labat Comess

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



727 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: NEWS WATCH: PHOTOGRAPHY; 
Take Vacation Snapshots With Plenty of Do-Overs

BYLINE:  By Ivan Berger 

 BODY:
Digital cameras usually sell for $200 and up, a lot more than their film equivalents. But Ritz Camera has begun to sell (and in Wisconsin, Walgreens is test-marketing) a single-use digital camera that costs about as much as, and works like, a disposable film camera. 
The Ritz Dakota Digital and the Studio 35 Digital from Walgreens hold 25 pictures with a two-megapixel resolution, enough for enlargements of up to 8 by 10 inches. That capacity need not be wasted on bad shots; users can delete a picture if they suspect it is flawed, creating room for retakes. 
 The economy comes at a price: there is no liquid crystal display on the camera to show what the pictures look like. 
 Automatic exposure and flash controls eliminate some potential picture errors, though. A self-timer enables the photographer to run around in front of the camera to get into the picture.
 The camera costs $10.99, which includes a set of 4-by-6-inch prints, an index print showing thumbnails of all 25 shots, and a photo CD, allowing for further home or commercial printing. The CD also contains Mac and PC software for viewing, saving, printing or e-mailing photos, which need not be installed in the user's computer. 
 Ritz (www.ritzcamera.com) has 1,200 locations around the country under the Ritz, Wolf, Kits, Inkleys, and Camera Shop names. Ivan Berger

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in Circuits on Thursday about single-use digital cameras misstated their price at Walgreens stores in Wisconsin, where they are being test-marketed, and referred incorrectly to what the price includes. The Walgreens price is $9.99; $10.99 is the price of a comparable model at stores owned by Ritz Camera. The price includes only the camera; Ritz charges $10.99 more and Walgreens $9.99 more for a set of 4-by-6-inch prints, an index print of all 25 images, and a photo CD.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); TEST MARKETING (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); CAMERA & PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES STORES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (51%) PHOTOGRAPHY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: RITZ CAMERA; WALGREEN CO 

PERSON: BERGER, IVAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



728 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Do Fence Me In 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At first, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was wary about his political opposition's idea of a security fence separating Israelis from Palestinian suicide bombers. "Not a magical solution," he told me when doves pushed a plan to create a border along the indefensible 1967 borders, freezing out all Israeli villages in the West Bank, including Jerusalem suburbs.
 Since then, the idea of a wire fence with sensors and video cameras, making it possible to control entry into Israel, has been refined to encompass most of the close-in Israeli settlements. Now the fence, one-fourth completed, provides what Sharon sees as not only more security for all Israelis but also as an incentive to Palestinians to make peace. 
 "Tens of thousands of Arabs had been infiltrating illegally into Israel," he told me after his meeting with President Bush this week. "A minority are involved in terror. That's a dangerous development and has to be stopped."
Beyond the physical barrier is the chance to change the diplomatic dynamic: "Arafat's strategy is to make terror a part of political negotiation. When you don't get all you want, you use terror -- you start an intifada. The security fence, when it is finished, will close off this strategy. Losing this negotiating weapon bothers them."
Apparently it bothered some in our State Department as well, and President Bush took to adopting the Palestinian characterization of the barrier as "a wall." That word has echoes to Jews of a ghetto wall, and to Americans of Ronald Reagan's "tear down this wall!" Mr. Bush has since returned to using "the fence," and in his long-awaited news conference yesterday, he refrained from taking an opportunity to criticize it.
That makes sense. Robert Satloff, the most perceptive of the Middle East analysts, writes in The Baltimore Sun, "After having committed the prestige of his presidency on promoting Israeli-Palestinian peace, President Bush should not find himself on the wrong side of an initiative that may actually offer a chance to produce it."
Sharon does not see the defense-fence as a unilaterally decided border. "It's neither a political nor exactly a security border. If we decide a certain place will or will not be in our hands," he said, "the fact that there is a fence there will not affect the ultimate decision." After thus reassuring both settlers and to some extent Palestinians, the veteran leader added, "But it should be very clear we will not return to the '67 borders."
Sharon noted that "80 percent of Israelis fell in love with the fence, and about the same number don't trust the Palestinians." (I suspect Sharon is squarely amidst this majority, as am I.)
What about the new prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas (known to friends as Abu Mazen) -- is he delivering on his commitments? "Abu Mazen understands that Israel cannot be destroyed by terror, and he believes our problems can be solved by negotiation." That's the good part. "But he has not yet determined to disarm and dismantle the terror organizations. And Arafat is undermining him."
How best to strengthen Abu Mazen? "We're releasing prisoners and issuing 30,000 work permits. You should support economic projects that Abu Mazen gets credit for." 
And what of the security chief Muhammad Dahlan, who has been passive in making arrests and has not tried to stop the manufacture of hundreds of rockets in Gaza? "He doesn't want to be stained" -- meaning, I presume, that Dahlan has political ambitions that preclude toughness on terror.
What's the greatest danger facing Israel now that Saddam is gone? "Libya is trying to get fissionable material, but the greatest danger now is Iran with its ballistic missiles of 1,300 kilometers. I spoke to Putin recently. The Russians understand that Iran is heading toward possessing nuclear weapons, and he will take some steps to be more careful now."
Does Saddam's ouster mean change throughout the Middle East? Sharon is cautious: "The U.S. won't be in our neighborhood forever. Israel will stay there, and I haven't seen a democratic Arab country yet."
But I've never seen him more optimistic: "There is a shift, a potential for even greater change. With all the criticism he gets, President Bush is a determined man. He has created an opportunity in the Middle East that nobody has done before. And that could make a great difference." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ABBAS, MAHMOUD (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



729 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Independent for 81 Years, the BBC Is Facing a Challenge 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 30 

 BODY:
Its tones, by tradition, are measured, and its voice untainted by partisan hectoring. Indeed, the nicknames by which Britons have come to know their public service broadcaster seem to evoke demure respectability: the Beeb or just Auntie.
 But in recent weeks the British Broadcasting Corporation, arguably the best-known public broadcaster, has been embroiled in one of the most bitter rows of its 81-year history, pitting its sense of independence and impartiality against a government that has accused it of misreporting why Britain joined the United States in the war against Iraq. 
 The dispute has been made all the more sensational by the death of David Kelly, a government specialist on chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, identified by the BBC as its main source for a report on May 29 suggesting that the office of Prime Minister Tony Blair exaggerated the threat from Iraq's weapons programs to justify joining the war. 
Mr. Blair's communications chief, Alastair Campbell, has demanded a retraction, which the BBC has refused to give. Mr. Campbell himself may now be thinking of quitting, according to British press reports. Mr. Blair declined to comment on that topic today.
This unusual public debate, however, has gone much further than political mudslinging, encouraging critics and rivals to challenge the BBC's view of itself and its curious status as a public broadcaster financed by a compulsory license fee among television viewers, yet protected by Royal Charter from government control.
The BBC, said Conrad Black, publisher of Britain's conservative Daily and Sunday Telegraph, "is a virulent culture of bias."
He added: "Though its best programming in nonpolitical areas is distinguished, sadly it has become the greatest menace facing the country it was founded to serve and inform." 
His remarks, in last Saturday's Daily Telegraph, preceded an equally robust defense of the BBC by Gavyn Davies, the organization's chairman, criticizing what he depicted as a government onslaught designed to bring the broadcaster under outside control.
"Our integrity is under attack and we are chastised for taking a different view on editorial matters from that of the government and its supporters," he said in an article in The Sunday Telegraph. "Because we have had temerity to do this, it is hinted that a system that has protected the BBC for 80 years should be swept away and replaced by an external regulator that will 'bring the BBC to heel.' "
His comments, in turn, forced Tessa Jowell, the culture minister, to pledge to "uphold completely the independence of the BBC."
Some critics see the BBC as embracing what The Economist, the weekly news magazine, called "a soft-left world view." And, like other BBC adversaries, the conservative Mr. Black accused the BBC of pursuing its own agendas -- "pathologically hostile to the government and official opposition, most British institutions, American policy in almost every field, moderation in Ireland, all Western religions and most manifestations of the free market economy."
Yet one of the BBC's most ardent critics, Gerald Kaufman, is a legislator from Mr. Blair's Labor Party, while the BBC's chairman, Mr. Davies, and its director-general, Greg Dyke, are Labor supporters appointed by the government.
That political affiliation seems to have left both Mr. Davies and Mr. Dyke feeling that it was more important than ever for them to support the BBC's independence.
But what makes the battle so fierce is the idiosyncratic status of the BBC, a monolith with eight television channels, five radio networks -- not counting the BBC World Service -- a book publishing division and separate businesses exporting its programs to markets that include cable distributors in the United States.
Its rivals -- like Sky, 35 percent owned by Rupert Murdoch's News International, and Independent Television, known as the ITV -- rely on advertising or on the up-to-$58-a-month subscriptions that Sky's 6.6. million satellite subscribers pay for access to 200 sports, film, entertainment and news channels, including Mr. Murdoch's Fox News from the United States.
The BBC, by contrast, receives $180-a-year license fees paid by some 20 million Britons, giving the corporation around $3.6 billion in guaranteed annual income, free from the usual commercial pressures of earning it or accounting for it each year.
Indeed, the corporation is governed by a 10-year Royal Charter, not expiringuntil 2006, meaning it can take a much longer view of its investments and spending than other broadcasters. At the same time, though, to the annoyance of competitors, the charter permits it to sell programs, books and magazines even as it harvests income from the compulsory license fees that its critics call a tax.
"It's about people like Murdoch and like the ITV stations feeling that they haven't got a big enough share of the action that the BBC has," said Roy Greenslade, the media correspondent of The Guardian and former editor of The Daily Mirror, a tabloid.
Shielded from the usual bottom-line pressure, the organization has struggled robustly to reinvent itself in an era of digital technology that, for instance, enables viewers to choose which game they want to see during the Wimbledon tennis tournament and to vote with their remote controls in television game shows.
BBC programs have grown bolder. Grizzled Britons able to recall single-channel monochrome television with BBC news presenters wearing black tie and tuxedos may well have been shocked by such offerings as the drama "Tipping the Velvet," a saga of lesbian romance in Victorian Britain on the BBC2 channel.
Listeners used to the scratchy shortwave offerings of news on the BBC's World Service radio might also see something of a departure from tradition in a newly launched BBC3 television channel intended for an edgier audience of 24- to 35-year- olds.
With the BBC's viewers decreasing as competition increases, "it's quite obvious that the BBC feels it has to compete for audience," Mr. Greenslade said.
The fight with Mr. Blair's government is not the first. But public faith in the BBC's reputation has not seemed to suffer. Indeed, the row has coincided with opinion surveys showing confidence and trust in Mr. Blair's government at record lows.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alastair Campbell, the communications chief for Tony Blair. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); DEREGULATION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); TERRORISM (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; TELEVISION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (BBC) 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%) COWELL, ALAN; KELLY, DAVID (DR); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



730 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 3452 words

HEADLINE: FROM THE ROSE GARDEN; 
In Bush's Words: 'Taking the Fight to the Enemy' in Iraq

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from President Bush's news conference this morning in the White House Rose Garden, as recorded by The New York Times. A complete transcript can be found online at nytimes.com/washington.

OPENING STATEMENT

PRESIDENT BUSH -- Thank you. Good morning. I was hoping it'd be a little hotter here to prepare the traveling team for the Crawford experience this August. But thank you for coming. . . .
 As I travel around the country from Crawford, I'm going to be focused on two vital concerns for our country: first, the safety of the American people, and the economic security of the American people. 
On the national security front, it has been 90 days since the end of the major combat operations in Iraq. The nation has been liberated from tyranny and is on the path to self-government and peace. The Iraqi Governing Council is meeting regularly. Local police forces are now being trained, and citizens are being recruited into a new Iraqi military -- a military that will protect the Iraqi people instead of intimidating them. 
Soon representatives of the people will begin drafting a new constitution, and free elections will follow. After decades of oppression, the people of Iraq are reclaiming their country and are reclaiming their future. 
Conditions in most of Iraq are growing more peaceful. In some areas, however, the violent remnants of Saddam Hussein's regime, joined by terrorists and criminals, are making a last attempt to frighten the Iraqi people and to undermine the resolve of our coalition. They will fail. 
Our coalition forces are taking the fight to the enemy in an unrelenting campaign that is bringing daily results. 
Saddam Hussein's sons did not escape the raids and neither will other members of that despicable regime. . . .
As the blanket of fear is lifted, as Iraqis gain confidence that the former regime is gone forever, we will gain more cooperation in our search for the truth in Iraq. We know that Saddam Hussein produced and possessed chemical and biological weapons and has used chemical weapons. We know that.
He also spent years hiding his weapons of mass destruction programs from the world. We now have teams of investigators who are hard at work to uncover the truth.
The success of a free Iraq will also demonstrate to other countries in that region that national prosperity and dignity are found in representative government and free institutions. They are not found in tyranny, resentment and for support of terrorism. . . .
The United States and our allies will complete our mission in Iraq and will complete our mission in Afghanistan. We will keep our word to the peoples of those nations. We will wage the war on terror against every enemy who plots against our forces and our people. . . .
My administration is also acting to ensure the economic security of the American people. Paychecks are already reflecting the reduction in income-tax rates, which is providing relief to millions of taxpayers and small businesses. . . . 
Yet the unemployment rate is still too high. And we will not rest until Americans looking for work can find a job. 
To strengthen the economic security of the people, Congress needs to pass a sound energy bill to make sure that our households and businesses have a reliable, affordable supply of energy. 
Congress needs to pass legal reforms to cut down on the frivolous lawsuits that provide a drag to our economy. 
Congress needs to approve re-employment accounts to help citizens who have the toughest time finding work. 
Congress needs to make sure that the child credit is refundable for lower-income families. . . . 
Economic security for America's seniors is threatened by the rising cost of prescription drugs. I'm pleased that both houses of Congress have responded by passing separate bills providing prescription drug coverage under Medicare. It's absolutely essential that the House and the Senate resolve their differences and enact a piece of legislation I can sign. . . .

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Q. With the deaths of the sons of Saddam Hussein and the capture of his chief bodyguard, what can you tell us about how close we might be to actually capturing or killing Saddam himself? . . . And what do you say to those troops who have fought long and hard and now are eager to come home, given the fact that it's hard to find other countries to send in troops that could serve as replacements?

A. . . . First, we do have a good rotation plan in place now for our troops. The Third I.D. Infantry Division , which has conducted a lot of the major military operations in the beginning of the war, has now got a definite time in which they're coming home. And that in itself is a positive development.
There was some concern amongst family members of the Third I.D. that they were getting mixed signals. And I understand that. And now it's clear as to their rotation plan. 
And by the way, as we rotate we'll be changing the nature of the military configuration to have more of the capacity to move very quickly and to strike quickly. Because our intelligence is getting better on the ground as we're able to pick targets, able to enrich targets and move quickly on the targets. . . . 
Of course it's important that Saddam's sons were brought to justice. That changes attitudes in Iraq. People didn't believe that the Baathist regime was going to be gone forever. They felt like -- you know, you would hear reports of Baathist, former Baathist officials saying to Iraqi citizens, listen, the Americans will grow stale and tired. They'll leave. And by the way, we'll come back. And when we come back, we'll come back with a vengeance if you help in the reconstruction of the country. 
So needless to say, when two of the most despicable henchmen of the Saddam Hussein regime met their fate, the Baathist claim that at least these two will come back and haunt the citizens rings hollow. 
I don't know how close we are to getting Saddam Hussein. Closer than we were yesterday, I guess. All I know is we're on the hunt. . . .

Q. Homeland Security is warning against possible hijackings this summer. How serious is this threat and what can you do about it? How can Americans feel safe?

A. Yeah. First of all, the war on terror goes on, as I continue to remind people. In other words, there are still Al Qaeda remnants that have designs on America. The good news is that we are, one, dismantling the Al Qaeda organization. And two, we're learning more information about their plans as we capture more people.
And the threat is a real threat. It's a threat that we're -- we obviously don't have specific data. We don't know when,where, what. But we do know a couple of things. We do know that Al Qaeda tends to use the methodologies that worked in the past. That's kind of their mindset. And we have got some data that indicates that they would like to use flights, international flights, for example. 
Now what we can do is, we can be, obviously at home, continue to be diligent on the inspection process of baggage as well as making sure those who board aircraft are properly screened. And obviously we're talking to foreign governments and foreign airlines to indicate to them the reality of the threat. We're conscious of folks flying -- you know, getting lists of people flying in our country and match them now with a much improved database. International flights coming into America must have hardened cockpit doors, which is a positive development. . . . 
You know, let me talk about Al Qaeda just for a second. I made the statement that we're dismantling senior management, and we are. . . . We're dismantling the operating decision makers. We've got more to do. And the American people need to know we're not stopping. We've got better intelligence gathering, better intelligence sharing. And we're on the hunt. . . .

Q. You met yesterday with the Saudi foreign minister, who wants the administration to declassify these 27 or 28 pages about his government in this report on 9/11. . . . Can you tell us, is there any compromise in sight on this? And could you at least summarize the material in that classified document? . . .

A. John, the foreign minister did come and speak to me. And I told him this, I said, we have an ongoing investigation about what may or may not have taken place prior to Sept. 11. And, therefore, it is important for us to hold this information close so that those who are being investigated aren't alerted. I also told him in the document that if we were to reveal the content of the document -- 29 pages of a near 900-page report -- it would reveal sources and methods. . . .
Now at some point in time, as we make progress on the investigation and as the threat to our national security diminishes, perhaps we can put out the document. But in my judgment, now is not the time to do so. . . .

Q. Saddam Hussein's alleged ties to Al Qaeda were a key part of your justification for war, yet your own intelligence report, the N.I.E. National Intelligence Estimate , defined it as, quote, low confidence that Saddam would give weapons to Al Qaeda. Were those links exaggerated to justify war? Or can you finally offer us some definitive evidence that Saddam was working with Al Qaeda terrorists?

A. Yeah. I think, first of all -- remember, I just said we've been there for 90 days since the cessation of major military operations. Now I know in our world where news comes and goes and there's this kind of instant news and you must have done this, you must do this yesterday, that there's a level of frustration by some in the media. I'm not suggesting you're frustrated. You don't look frustrated to me at all. But it's going to take time for us to gather the evidence and analyze the mounds of evidence, literally the miles of documents that we have uncovered. . . .
There is no doubt in my mind, Campbell, that Saddam Hussein was a threat to the United States security and a threat to peace in the region. And there's no doubt in my mind that a free Iraq is important. It's got strategic consequences for not only achieving peace in the Middle East, but a free Iraq will help change the habits of other nations in the region, which will make America much more secure. . . .

Q. There's a sense here in this country and a feeling around the world that the U.S. has lost credibility by building the case for Iraq upon sometimes flimsy or, some people have complained, nonexistent evidence. I'm just wondering, sir, why did you choose to take the world to war in that way?

A. . . . Saddam Hussein was a threat. The United Nations viewed him as a threat. That's why they passed 12 resolutions. Predecessors of mine viewed him as a threat. We gathered a lot of intelligence. That intelligence was good, sound intelligence on which I made a decision. And in order to placate the critics and the cynics about intentions of the United States, we need to produce evidence.
And I fully understand that. And I'm confident that our search will yield that which I strongly believe: that Saddam had a weapons program. I want to remind you he actually used his weapons program on his own people at one point in time, which is pretty tangible evidence. But I'm confident history will prove the decision we made to be the right decision. . . .

Q. Mr. President, many of your supporters believe that homosexuality is immoral. They believe that it's been given too much acceptance in policy terms and culturally. As someone who has spoken out in strongly moral terms, what's your view on homosexuality?

A. Yeah. I am mindful that we're all sinners. And I caution those who may try to take a speck out of their neighbor's eye when they've got a log in their own. I think it's very important for our society to respect each individual, to welcome those with good hearts, to be a welcoming country. On the other hand, that does not mean that somebody like me needs to compromise on an issue such as marriage. That's really where the issue is headed here in Washington. And that is the definition of marriage. I believe in the sanctity of marriage. I believe a marriage is between a man and a woman. And I think we ought to codify that one way or the other. And we've got lawyers looking at the best way to do that. . . .

Q. We now have more evidence of a massive budget deficit that taxpayers are going to be paying off for years or decades to come. The economy continues to shed jobs. What evidence can you point to that tax cuts, at least of the variety that you have supported, are really working to help this economy? And do you need to be thinking about some other approach?

A. No, the answer to the last part of your question. First of all, let me -- quick history, recent history. The stock market started to decline in March of 2000. Then the first quarter of 2001 was a recession. And then we got attacked 9/11. And then corporate scandals started to bubble up to the surface, which created a lack of confidence in the system. And then we had the drumbeat to war.
Remember on our TV screens -- I'm not suggesting which network did this -- but it said "March to War" every day from last summer till the spring. March to war, march to war, that's not a very conducive environment for people to take risks when they hear march to war all the time. 
And yet our economy is growing. What I'm telling you is that we had a lot of obstacles to overcome. The '01 tax cuts affected the recession this way, it was a shallow recession. That's positive because I care about people being able to find a job. You know, someone said, well, maybe the recession should have been deeper in order for the rebound to be quicker. My attitude is, a deeper recession means more people would have been hurt. And I view the actions we've taken as a jobs program, job creation program. 
Secondly, there are hopeful signs. Most economists believe that over the next 18 months, we'll see positive economic growth. . . .

Q. Mr. President, with no opponent, how can you spend $170 million or more on your primary campaign?

A. Just watch. Keep going.

Q. Yes, sir. And with 15 fund-raisers scheduled for the summer months, do you worry about the perception that you're unduly attentive to the interests of people who can afford to spend $2,000 to see you?

A. Michael, I think American people . . . expect me to actually do what candidates do. And so you're right, I'll be spending some time going out and asking the American people to support me. But most of my time, as I say in my speeches, which I'm sure you've been bored to tears listening to, is that there's a time for politics, and that's going to be later on.
I've got a lot to do. And I will continue doing my job. And my job will be to work to make American more secure. . . . And I spend a lot of time on the economy, going out and talking to the American people about the economy, and will continue to do so. 
But no, listen, since I've made the decision to run, of course I'm going to do what candidates do. And we're having pretty good success. It's kind of an interesting barometer, early barometer, about the support we're garnering. . . .

Q. Mr. President, you've been involved now in the Mideast peace process and have certainly learned first hand how developments like the creation of a fence can complicate progress. Based on that, when you stood there about a year ago and proposed your road map, you spoke about a Palestinian state in 2005. I mean, do you think that goal is still realistic? Or is it likely to slide just because it's so hard to make headway?

A. I do think it's realistic. I also know when we start sliding goals, it makes progress less realistic. Absolutely, I think it's realistic. And I think we're making pretty good progress in a short period of time.
I'm impressed by Prime Minister Abbas's vision of a peaceful Palestinian state. I believe him when he says that we must rout out terror in order for a Palestinian state to exist. I believe he's true. I think Mr. Dahlan, his security chief, also recognizes that.
And we've got to help those two leaders in a couple of ways to realize that vision of a peaceful Palestinian state. One is to provide help and strategy to Mr. Dahlan so that he can lead Palestinian security forces to the dismantlement of bomb-making factories, rocket-making factories inside Gaza and the West Bank. That's going to be a very important part of earning the confidence of the world, for that matter. 
We've also got to recognize that there are things that can happen on the ground that will strengthen Mr. Abbas's hand relative to the competition -- moving -- for example, movement throughout the country. 
So I spent time talking to Prime Minister Sharon yesterday about checkpoints. We discussed the difference between a checkpoint for security purposes and a checkpoint that might be there that's there for inconvenience purposes -- let me put it to you that way. 
We talked about all the thorny issues. But the most important thing is that we now have an interlocutor in Mr. Abbas who's committed to peace and who believes in the aspirations of the Palestinian people. . . .

Q. Do you expect American troops to be landing in any large force in Liberia soon? And how far can the U.S. go in other international conflicts? When are we stretched too thin?

A. Yeah. A very good question. First of all, theconditions that I laid out for the Liberian rescue mission still exist. Charles Taylor must go. The cease-fire must be in place. And we will be there to help Ecowas an alliance in West Africa . And so we're working to get those conditions in place. . . . I also said the troop strength will be limited and the time frame will be limited. And we're working on that.
The idea, of course, is to go in, stabilize the situation, get the N.G.O.'s moving back in to their positions to be able to help to liberate and then work immediately with the United Nations to provide blue helmets -- maybe blue helmets -- some of the Ecowas forces in place, provide other blue helmets -- and that the United Nations would then take up the peacekeeping mission as well as the political mission in order to provide the framework for a transition to democracy. And, hopefully, that'll help stabilize the situation. I think it will. . . .

Q. One of the things we learned from that march to war is that when you start warning countries, they'd better pay attention. Are we now in the early stages of a march to war in Iran? Or are they more like in the category of North Korea?

A. I remember right after Iraq, the first thing that happened out of some writers' pens was that: Oh no, they're getting ready to attack either Syria or Iran. You know, the march to war is this campaign that's just going to march everywhere.
All options remain on the table. I believe that the best way to deal with the Iranians, at this point in time, is to convince others to join us in a clear declaration that the development of a nuclear weapon is not in their interests. . . .
The people of Iran are interested in freedom. And we stand by their side. We stand in the side of those who are desperate for freedom in Iran. We understand their frustrations in living in a society that is totalitarian in nature. And now is the time for the world to come together on Iran to send a clear message. . . .
The other thing that's interesting about Iran is that they do have Al Qaeda. They've admitted they've got Al Qaeda. Now, that's positive, that Al Qaeda's not talking to anybody. I mean, I would rather them be held somewhere, other than out moving around, plotting and planning. And I would just hope the Iranians would listen to the requests of countries in their neighborhood to turn them over. . . .

Q. Mr. President, you often speak about the need for accountability in many areas. I wonder then why is Dr. Condoleezza Rice not being held accountable for the statement that your own White House has acknowledged was a mistake in your State of the Union address regarding Iraq's attempts to purchase uranium. And also, do you take personal responsibility for that inaccuracy?

A. I take personal responsibility for everything I say, of course, absolutely. I also take responsibility for making decisions on war and peace. And I analyzed a thorough body of intelligence, good, solid, sound intelligence that led me to come to the conclusion that it was necessary to remove Saddam Hussein from power. We gave the world a chance to do it. Twelve times the United Nations Security Council passed resolutions in recognition of the threat that he posed. And the difference was that some were not willing to act on those resolutions. We were, along with a lot of other countries. Because he posed a threat.
Dr. Condoleezza Rice is an honest, fabulous person and America is lucky to have her service. Period.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); INCOME TAX (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



731 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: FROM THE ROSE GARDEN: SECURITY COUNCIL; 
U.S. Offers Resolution to Approve African Force for Liberia

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 30 

 BODY:
The United States introduced a Security Council resolution today that would authorize the peacekeeping force being assembled by West African countries to enforce the shaky cease-fire in Liberia.
 The draft resolution is likely to create new momentum for an intervention that has been stalled by political opposition in Washington and by calls from African participants for more financial and logistical aid. Council diplomats indicated today that the measure was likely to win approval late this week or early next week. 
 Nothing in the draft indicates that Washington plans to take a leading role in the multinational force. President Bush said in his news conference, "The conditions that I laid out for the Liberian rescue mission still exist: Charles Taylor must go, a cease-fire must be in place, and we will be there to help" the force assembled by the Economic Community of West African States
One factor stalling the deployment of two battalions -- about 1,500 troops-- already committed by the Nigerians has been financial. The State Department has signed a $10 million contract with a California company to provide vehicles, tents, food and other logistical support, "which obviously the Nigerians have indicated is not enough," Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, told reporters today.
In Liberia, fighting continued today in both Monrovia, the capital, and Buchanan, the second-largest city.
One resident told Reuters that "dozens of people" had been killed and that the dead were being carried off in wheelbarrows during lulls in the fighting.
Under the draft resolution, the multinational force would begin the job, then hand off to United Nations peacekeepers, who would be deployed by Oct. 1. Several Council diplomats said it was unrealistic to expect the United Nations force to be ready before late fall.
The draft resolution also allows the current United Nations peacekeeping force in nearby Sierra Leone to use its equipment to airlift to Monrovia the first battalion of Nigerian troops. The Sierra Leone mission is also authorized to support the multinational force in Liberia "for a limited period." 
The plan, United States and United Nations officials have said, is for Mr. Taylor to depart upon the arrival of Nigerian troops. Secretary of State Colin. L Powell said today, "While waiting for the forces to arrive, we are also pressing hard for a cease-fire."
A West African military team arrived in Monrovia to assess the situation. Festus Okonkwo, a Nigerian general leading the team, told Agence France-Presse that, "The peacekeepers should be here within days."
Three ships carrying about 2,000 American marines are a few days from Monrovia. But President Bush made it clear that if American support included ground troops, "The troop strength will be limited, and the time frame will be limited."
The draft resolution also calls for Mr. Taylor's resignation, but makes no mention of the chief rebel group, the Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy, which has violated numerous cease-fires in the past two weeks while lobbing mortar shells into civilian neighborhoods.
Council members questioned both that omission and the inclusion of language giving the peacekeepers immunity from prosecution under the International Criminal Court. But the German envoy, Gunter Pleuger, predicted that any disagreements would be quickly resolved so that the troops could move in to Monrovia "as soon as possible." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (56%) UNITED NATIONS 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (65%) BARRINGER, FELICITY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TAYLOR, CHARLES (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LIBERIA (94%); NIGERIA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%) LIBERIA

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



732 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: The President's News Conference; 
Sidestepping on Iraq

 BODY:
Throughout his political career, George Bush has been famous for sticking to a few issues, and repeating a few well-burnished talking points over and over. Wide-ranging news conferences do not play to his considerable strengths, and as president, he has generally avoided them. But having decided to make a rare exception yesterday, Mr. Bush should have been able to come up with better responses to two big and obvious questions: why he ordered the invasion of Iraq and why he pushed for tax cuts that have left the nation sinking into a hopeless quagmire of debt. 
 Mr. Bush's vague and sometimes nearly incoherent answers suggested that he was either bedazzled by his administration's own mythmaking or had decided that doubts about his foreign and domestic policies could best be parried by ignoring them. 
 Mr. Bush will simply not engage the issue of whether his administration exaggerated the Iraqi threat in the months leading up to the American invasion. When asked whether the United States had lost credibility with the rest of the world since neither weapons of mass destruction nor a strong Al Qaeda connection had been uncovered in Iraq, the president veered off into a tour through American history and the difficulty of coming up with an Iraqi version of Thomas Jefferson. He then skidded to a halt with the announcement that "I'm confident history will prove the decision we made to be the right decision."
Mr. Bush still hung onto his most well-worn buzzwords, however. Iraq was a "threat" -- just as the tax cuts were "a job-creation program." The president and his advisers obviously still believe that the constant repetition of several simplistic points will hypnotize the American people into forgetting the original question. 
Saddam Hussein was certainly a threat to his own people, and there is still an enormous amount to be gained if the United States can foster a prosperous, open society in Iraq. But that does not cancel out the fact that the primary reasons Washington gave for the invasion look increasingly suspect. That is a serious problem, both in terms of the nation's credibility and the reliability of American intelligence. Mr. Bush owes the nation more than a brushoff on these matters.
In the case of the economy, the president was stuck defending an indefensible strategy of piling up one unnecessary tax cut after another. Having helped to turn the promise of budget surpluses into the disappointment of rising deficits, Mr. Bush mimics his father's out-of-touch performance in the 1992 campaign by acting as if the country is in fine fiscal shape. It is hard to buy his assertion that his first concern is Americans who are out of work. 
Given the rambling non-answers the president gave to questions about Iraq and the economy, it was interesting to hear how focused he was when someone asked how, with no opponent, he planned to spend $170 million or more on the primary. "Just watch me," Mr. Bush said concisely. There is one area in which the president's thinking is crystal clear. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); HISTORY (66%); AL-QAEDA (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); JOB CREATION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EDITORIALS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



733 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Dying in Iraq 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Those are good kids that we're sending into the shooting gallery called Iraq, and unless you have the conviction of a Bush or a Rumsfeld or a Bechtel or a Halliburton, you have to be nursing the sick feeling that each death is a tragic waste, and that this conflict is as much of a fool's errand as the war in Vietnam.
 Despite the deceit and chronic dissembling of their political leaders in Washington, and the wretched conditions on the ground in Iraq, the young men and women are fighting bravely. So there was Gov. George Pataki earlier this week with the unhappy task of asking for a moment of silence in remembrance of Sgt. Heath McMillin, a 29-year-old National Guardsman from Clifton Springs in upstate New York. 
 Sergeant McMillin was killed on Sunday when his unit was attacked while on patrol south of Baghdad.
Over the weekend The New York Times had an article about the close-knit family of Cpl. Travis J. Bradach-Nall, a 21-year-old marine from Portland, Ore., who was killed on July 1 while clearing mines in south-central Iraq. The corporal loved tattoos, and his favorite movie was "Ghostbusters." The article was accompanied by a photo showing his brother and three cousins with memorial "Ghostbusters" tattoos.
Why are these kids dying?
The United States was attacked on Sept. 11, 2001. But instead of using all the means available to hunt down and destroy Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda, the Bush administration became obsessed with the ouster of Saddam Hussein and the takeover of Iraq.
That is a very peculiar ordering of priorities.
The federal government issued public warnings this week after being alerted to potential new terror attacks against Americans by Al Qaeda, including the possibility of airline hijackings in the U.S. or overseas. President Bush said yesterday, "We're talking to foreign governments and foreign airlines to indicate to them the reality of the threat."
But even as the president was speaking, word was coming out that the Transportation Security Administration is trying to cut back its air marshals program to save money. The war in Iraq is costing scores of billions of dollars a month, and the president's tax cuts have grown so large they're casting shadows over generations to come. But we can't afford to fully fund a program to protect American airline passengers.
"When we are faced with more priorities than we have funding to support, we have to go through a process of trying to address the most urgent needs," said a spokesman for the security administration.
The credibility of the Bush administration is approaching meltdown. The White House won't level with the American people on the cost of the war, or the number of troops that are really needed, or the amount of taxpayer money that is being funneled to the politically connected corporations that have been given carte blanche for the reconstruction.
While the Bush crowd was happy to let the public believe that Saddam Hussein was somehow connected to the Sept. 11 attacks, it won't come clean about the real links between the Saudis and Al Qaeda. And you won't hear from the administration that the phantom weapons of mass destruction were never the real reason for the war, but merely the pretext. The real goals were to establish a military foothold in the region, remake the Middle East and capture control of Iraq's fabulous oil reserves.
Right now there is no viable plan for securing the peace in Iraq, and no exit strategy. There is no real plan for demolishing Al Qaeda and the genuine threat it poses to the security of all Americans. (Similarly, at home, there is no plan to get the economy moving and the millions of unemployed Americans back to work.)
Iraq is not Vietnam, where more than 58,000 Americans were killed. But it is like Vietnam in that deceptive leaders have maneuvered the country into a tragic situation that I do not believe Americans will support over time.
For the Bushes and the Rumsfelds, this is a grand imperial adventure, with press-conference posturing and wonderful photo-ops, like the president's "Top Gun" moment on the deck of the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln.
For the youngsters condemned to the shooting gallery, it's a fearful exercise in survival in a conflict that has never been adequately explained. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); AL-QAEDA (86%); AIRLINES (85%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (85%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LANDMINES (77%); POLITICS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); HIJACKING (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); AVIATION SECURITY (67%); BUDGETS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) HERBERT, BOB; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (90%) IRAQ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



734 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: In One Florida Town, Parents Getting Refund Checks Fulfill Bush's Hopes 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: BROOKSVILLE, Fla., July 30 

 BODY:
The refund checks have started arriving, and for many residents here, the $400-a-child tax credit, part of President Bush's latest effort to stimulate the economy, could not come at a better time.
 Matt Ross, a father of two, said he intended to pay a few bills and, with school starting in a few weeks, buy new clothes for his children. Robert and Sharee McCutcheon, who also have two children, said their money would go for school supplies and Christmas presents. Roger Kintz, father of two girls, including an aspiring Olympic gymnast who is competing this week in Detroit, said his money would help pay for the trip. 
 Bridgett Bedwell, the mother of two boys, was thinking about her family dentist. "I'm fixing to have braces for my kids' teeth," she said. "That check really helps me out, especially when the braces are costing me $4,000."
Spend. Spend. Spend. This is precisely what President Bush and Republican lawmakers were hoping for in enacting tax cuts that included an increase to $1,000 from $600 in the tax credit for children. Against concerns about the rising federal deficit (now projected at a record $455 billion) or the cost of maintaining troops in Iraq (almost $1 billion a week), supporters of the tax cuts, which passed the House largely on a party-line vote, argued that a sluggish economy was best improved by Americans' keeping more of their money so they could spend it. On Friday, the Treasury Department began mailing out the first of more than 25 million checks, $400 for each child who was 16 or younger in 2002.
But here in Florida's Fifth Congressional District, where voters are registered as Republicans and Democrats in nearly equal numbers, the news is not entirely encouraging for the administration. Interviews with dozens of voting parents this week found that a fair number -- as many as one in three -- were planning to save the money.
"My son has his own piggy bank, which he's already put money into," said one Republican, Rebecca Shaffer, a single mother of a 5-year-old. "We're going to put that money away for his college education." 
Lisa Rinehart, a mother of two who voted for Al Gore in 2000, said, "Anything I get back in taxes goes to savings."
Brooksville, a town of 7,700 about 60 miles north of Tampa, sits in a district known for political unpredictability. In the last three presidential elections, that district has supported the Republican, then supported the Democrat and then backed a Republican again.
Wherever they put their support, many voters here expressed deep appreciation for the child tax cut. Some, like Brint Fanizza, the owner of an import-export business and the father of a 10-year-old boy, described themselves as Bush supporters all the way, impressed enough with the president's leadership skills that they would vote for him again, with or without a child tax credit.
"The president is doing what he thinks is best for the economy and the people of this country," Mr. Fanizza said. "We need eight years of his kind of leadership." The $400, he added, will go for school supplies.
Others, less taken by Mr. Bush's job performance, questioned the timing of the tax cut, suggesting either that the money could have been used for other things -- like "road improvements or construction projects," Ms. Rinehart said -- or that the cut was a political tactic intended to gain support for the president's re-election.
"In a way, $400 is not an extraordinary amount of money," said Sara Rittenhouse, a nurse, who sat with her husband, Kevin, a firefighter, watching their 10-year-old son at a football practice. "But it seems to me it's the kind of money that makes a difference to the people who don't pay attention to the big political picture. I'm sure there are a lot better ways to spend the money. To me, it's like a bribe."
Penny Little, a waitress and mother of an 8-year-old boy, only wished "a bribe" would come her way. She and her husband, a golf course employee who has been laid off, earned only $14,500 last year, she said, making them one of about 6.5 million low-income families whose earnings were not high enough for them to pay taxes. As a result, they will receive no money back for their children.
Such families drew sympathy from some voters here, but not all. 
"If you give it to them, then it becomes a handout, another welfare program," said Brian Adams, owner of a trucking company and father of three who is planning to spend his $1,200 on orthodontic work for them. "You can't give a rebate to someone who didn't give anything."
That is a painful outcome to Ms. Little, a registered Republican, who is planning to study cosmetology at a community college this fall.
"I don't think it's fair," she said, pointing out that clothes for her son cost no less than clothes bought by middle-income families. "It doesn't take into account people who are trying and can't keep up with everything. I don't say people who are getting the money don't deserve it. But why don't they also give it to people whose income is lower? We could use it more than they do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert and Sharee McCutcheon have two children, Danielle, left, and Desiree. The McCutcheons say the $800 they will get as a result of a rise in the child tax credit will pay for school supplies and Christmas presents. (Photo by David Kadlubowski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ATHLETES (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); GYMNASTICS (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); EXPORT TRADE (60%) TAXATION; REFUNDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (58%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) BROOKSVILLE (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



735 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DOMESTIC SECURITY; 
Links of Saudis to Charities Come Under Senate Review

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN with DON VAN NATTA JR. 

 BODY:
A Senate hearing today exploring Saudi financing of terrorism will focus on several Muslim charities that are closely linked to members of the Saudi royal family, groups that are also cited in classified sections of a Congressional report on the September 2001 hijackings, according to law enforcement officials and others with knowledge of the document.
 These sources said that a prominent Saudi figure also mentioned in the report is Prince Nayef bin Abdel Aziz, Saudi Arabia's powerful interior minister and a brother of King Fahd. They said the report concludes that senior Saudi government officials helped finance terrorist groups through charitable organizations and individuals. 
 Since shortly after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, some Saudi charitable groups have been investigated by American and foreign law enforcement agencies. Several prominent Saudi officials and leaders of the groups have strongly denied that they finance terrorists and say these groups do legitimate humanitarian work. 
Prince Nayef's responsibilities involve regulating Saudi charities, and for years he has denied that Saudi Arabia has been a benefactor of terrorism. 
Among the Saudi charities that will be the focus of testimony before the Senate's Governmental Affairs Committee today are Al Haramain Charitable Foundation, the Muslim World League, the World Assembly of Muslim Youth and the International Islamic Relief Organization. All four of these charities have denied any links to terrorist activities. It is unclear if these groups are named in the deleted parts of the Congressional report.
The White House's refusal to make the edited parts public has strained Saudi-American relations and renewed scrutiny of terror financing. A Saudi Embassy spokesman in Washington did not return a phone call yesterday seeking comment on Prince Nayef or the charities named in the report.
Today's hearing will include testimony from Rick Newcomb, head of the Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department, which administers economic and trade sanctions to further national security. Mr. Newcomb is expected to testify that former Vice President Al Gore arranged two meetings with Saudi officials, in 1999 and 2000, that threatened Saudi Arabia with severe sanctions if they did not staunch the flow of terrorist money from the country. The hearing is expected to explore why sanctions were not imposed even though federal officials believed Saudi Arabia continued to ignore the problem.
The hearings will delve into charges that Congressional staff members who worked on the report of the joint House and Senate intelligence committee investigating the 2001 attacks were pressured by the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. to classify information in the report about possible Saudi financial links to the attacks.
Al Haramain, which is based in Riyadh, has figured prominently in federal law enforcement investigations of Saudi sponsorship of terrorism for at least several years. It was banned from Kenya after the bombing of the American embassy there in 1998 because of law enforcement suspicions that it was involved in the attack. Last year, the Treasury Department froze assets of its Bosnian and Somali branches because of suspected links to terrorists, among them Wael Jalaidan, a Saudi Arabian identified as a terrorist sponsor in the report. In June, the Saudis said they would close all of Al Haramain's operations outside of Saudi Arabia because of concerns about lax financial controls and an abundance of non-Saudi employees in its foreign offices.
An American law enforcement official said that a continuing issue for the United States was whether Saudi Arabia was cooperating fully with the war on terrorism, another area that is addressed in the public and classified sections of the report. "Cooperation has improved considerably since the Riyadh bombings" on May 12, the official said, referring to the triple suicide bombings that struck western compounds in Riyadh. "But it's still not perfect."
For at least the last month, the Treasury Department and other federal agencies have been pressing Saudi officials to monitor closely bank accounts designated for relief aid to Palestinians, senior law enforcement officials said. The accounts in question are known in Saudi Arabia as "'Account 98" funds -- the designation Saudi regulators use for money destined for Palestinian charitable works. Similar accounts exist for Saudi money intended for needy Muslims in other parts of the world, like Bosnia and Chechnya.
Prince Nayef oversees the Saudi Committee for the Support of Al Quds Intifada, which provides aid to the families of Palestinian suicide bombers through specially designated bank accounts. According to Arab News, a Saudi daily, a single telethon early last year raised about $112 million for Al Quds.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince Nayef bin Abdel Aziz, Saudi Arabia's interior minister. (Photo by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); CHARITIES (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PHILANTHROPY; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISLAM; ROYAL FAMILY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ASSEMBLY OF MUSLIM YOUTH (55%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); AL GORE (78%) O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; VAN NATTA, DON JR; NAYEF (PRINCE); FAHD (KING OF SAUDI ARABIA) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



736 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: FROM THE ROSE GARDEN: WHITE HOUSE; 
PRESIDENT DENIES HE OVERSOLD CASE FOR WAR WITH IRAQ

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30 

 BODY:
President Bush today rejected criticism that he had exaggerated the urgency of going to war with Iraq and said American forces were "on the hunt" for Saddam Hussein.
 But at his first full-scale news conference in nearly five months, Mr. Bush also took responsibility for the first time for an assertion in his State of the Union address about Iraq's nuclear weapons program that turned out to be based on questionable intelligence. He had initially suggested that the fault for including the assertion rested with the C.I.A. 
 "I take personal responsibility for everything I say, of course," Mr. Bush said. "I also take responsibility for making decisions on war and peace. And I analyzed a thorough body of intelligence, good, solid, sound intelligence that led me to come to the conclusion that it was necessary to remove Saddam Hussein from power."
Asked in several ways whether he had oversold the threat from Iraq to justify the war, Mr. Bush said that he remained confident that banned weapons would be found, and that there had been a well-documented case even before he took office that Mr. Hussein had biological, chemical and nuclear weapons programs.
"And in order to placate the critics and cynics about intentions of the United States, we need to produce evidence," Mr. Bush said. "And I fully understand that. And I'm confident that our search will yield that which I strongly believe: that Saddam had a weapons program."
It was only the ninth formal news conference of his presidency. Mr. Bush has made clear that he dislikes the sessions and does not think they are a good way of communicating with the public. It was called by the White House at the last minute this morning after weeks of pressure from reporters, including a bellowed request directed at the president by Bill Plante of CBS News after the president's appearance in the Rose Garden on Tuesday with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel.
White House officials said Mr. Bush had no particular news to disclose, although he suggested that he was considering legislation or a Constitutional amendment to codify that marriage can take place only between a man and woman. But the session, held in the Rose Garden, gave Mr. Bush a chance to promote his domestic and foreign policy record as the presidential race begins to heat up and as he prepares to head to his ranch in Texas for a month starting on Saturday.
Mr. Bush began the session with a statement about progress in Iraq, in the fight against terrorism and in strengthening the sluggish economy. Then, for more than 45 minutes, he fielded questions on a wide array of topics. The president said the threat from Al Qaeda remained real, noting that the United States had information that the terrorist organization might again try to hijack airliners, perhaps an international flight.
"I'm confident we will thwart the attempts," the president said.
Mr. Bush said he did not know how close American forces were to capturing Mr. Hussein, whose two sons were killed in a gun battle with troops last week.
"Closer than we were yesterday, I guess," Mr. Bush said. "All I know is we're on the hunt."
Mr. Bush got one question about his statement in the State of the Union address that Iraq had sought to acquire uranium in Africa, a statement that turned out to be based on intelligence that the C.I.A. had warned the White House might be unreliable. He was specifically asked if Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, whose office helped go over the speech, should be held responsible for the inclusion of the assertion. "Dr. Condoleezza Rice is an honest, fabulous person," he said, with her standing not far away. "And America is lucky to have her service. Period."
Speaking this evening on "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer," Ms. Rice said, "I certainly feel personal responsibility for this entire episode. What I feel most responsibility for is that this is detracting from the very strong case the president has been making."
Mr. Bush defended his tax cuts as effective in helping the economy despite the continued rise in unemployment and the surge in the federal budget deficit. He pledged to follow through on his plan to provide $15 billion over five years to combat AIDS in some of the world's poorest nations, later drawing fire from some advocacy groups that said the financing levels he was supporting for next year were inadequate. 
He reiterated his commitment to a United States role in bringing peace to Liberia. But he did not respond directly to a question about whether that role would include the use of American ground troops, and said American participation in general would depend on a number of factors, including the departure of President Charles G. Taylor of Liberia and the enactment of a cease-fire between Mr. Taylor's forces and Liberian rebels.
Mr. Bush disclosed that he had spoken this morning to President Hu Jintao of China about North Korea's nuclear weapons program, and said he was urging the European Union and Russia to join the United States in sending a clear message to Iran not to build a nuclear weapon.
Throughout the session, his first extended encounter with reporters since March 6, before the war with Iraq, Mr. Bush appeared unruffled and well prepared for the occasionally sharp questions. He parried them with what has become a familiar blend of explanations, saying the threat from Mr. Hussein, for example, had been well established by the United Nations and previous administrations.
But a number of his statements, especially on theeconomy, drew criticism from Democrats and other critics of his administration.
Mr. Bush said the three tax cuts he had signed into law since taking office were a "job creation program" and that the tax bill he signed in 2001 had helped make the recession of that year "shallow." 
Democrats noted that the unemployment rate has risen to 6.4 percent from 4.1 percent since Mr. Bush took office and that the economy has lost 2.5 million nonfarm jobs in that period. At the same time, they said, the federal budget has gone from surplus to deficit, with more red ink likely for years or decades to come.
"We cannot create jobs and put our nation back on the path of economic growth until President Bush abandons his failed economic plan," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. "The president's budget-busting tax cuts have done little if anything for the majority of American families." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); TERRORISM (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); LEGISLATION (68%); HIJACKING (62%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%); AL-QAEDA (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); MARRIAGE LAW (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



737 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE POLITICAL CONTEXT; 
9/11 Will Echo in Campaign, but How Loudly?

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30 

 BODY:
A summer meeting of Republican leaders in New York last week featured not one but two welcoming speeches by Rudolph W. Giuliani. Those appearances by the symbol of the city's response to the World Trade Center attack were another reminder of one big reason the White House chose New York as the place where President Bush is to be nominated for re-election next year.
 But as Mr. Giuliani, in a preview of the party's 2004 convention, led the Republicans in lauding Mr. Bush's leadership after Sept. 11, a different message about terrorism and the presidential election campaign was being sent by Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary. 
 Mr. Ridge said that after talking to Mr. Bush, he had decided to refrain from any political activity. It would be inappropriate, he said, for the cabinet officer so closely identified with the fight against terrorism to step onto the campaign field.
Those somewhat divergent messages illustrate the challenge facing the White House as it calculates how to find the balance between embracing an event that Mr. Bush's advisers view as central to his re-election, while appearing not to exploit it.
To what extent is it appropriate for the imagery of Sept. 11 to be incorporated into the political appeals of Mr. Bush and his Democratic opponent? Is there a risk that voters will recoil at a perception that a candidate is stage-managing tragedy for political gain, particularly with each side already accusing the other of doing precisely that? 
The decision by Mr. Ridge, former governor of Pennsylvania and a close friend of Mr. Bush, not to raise money or appear at presidential or Congressional campaign events was just the latest apparent sign of rising White House sensitivity to Democratic criticism that the president is writing some of the turmoil on the world stage into his re-election script.
In another such sign, Republican leaders who were interviewed used almost identical turns of phrase in maintaining that the decision to hold the Republican National Convention in New York for the first time was a testimony to the city's diversity. The reason, they said, was not that Madison Square Garden, the site of the gathering, is barely two miles from ground zero.
"I think that 9/11 is something that is part of our fabric, part of our being -- it's nothing that one exploits," said Ann Wagner, Republican national co-chairwoman. "And it certainly is not a factor in our coming here, other than the fact of us wanting to be part of the recovery."
Mr. Bush is hardly alone in having to deal with the issue. Advisers to the Democratic presidential candidates say he cannot be defeated unless their party succeeds in at least partly severing his identification with a strong national response to the attacks. Those candidates have begun trying to do so.
Senator Bob Graham of Florida, former chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, was among the authors of a Congressional report issued last week that faulted the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. for missing warning signs of terrorist planning for the attacks. That criticism echoed what Mr. Graham has made the centerpiece of his presidential campaign.
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, posing with firefighters in the Bronx, declared that "when it comes to protecting America from terrorism, this administration is big on bluster and short on action."
In a public letter to Mr. Ridge, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut said the administration was "dangerously underfunding the war on terrorism here at home." 
Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has delivered speeches warning that because of lapses in intelligence procedures, the nation is at risk of another terrorist attack.
Stanley Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said he did not believe there was much risk in campaigns' aggressively invoking Sept. 11, since, he suggested, most voters will perceive references to it as sincere.
"I think there will never be a backlash," Mr. Greenberg said. "The country will resist politics coming into it. They'll just block it out. It's very special with Americans."
Of Mr. Bush and the White House, Mr. Greenberg said: "Now, can they go too far? I don't know. But I think people are thankful to him for what he did on 9/11. He's got a lot of room on that."
For his part, Mr. Ridge said in an interview that the decision to sit out the campaign was one that Mr. Bush strongly endorsed. He noted that the other cabinet officers most intimately involved in national security matters -- Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Attorney General John Ashcroft -- were all going to refrain from active campaigning. 
"This is the right decision for the right reasons," Mr. Ridge said. "I get a lot of invitations from congressmen to do political things, and I tell them, 'I don't think it's appropriate.' I've been asked to do fund-raisers, and I've said, 'I just don't think I should.' " 
In this environment, the White House is showing imagination in finding ways to invoke the Sept. 11 attacks. In a briefing for Republican leaders, Mr. Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman, cited the attacks as a main cause of economic weakness, which could threaten the president's re-election. (At his Rose Garden news conference this morning, Mr. Bush, too, pointed to the attacks as a weight on the economy.)
"These attacks," Mr. Mehlman said, "worsened the recession. Airlines were grounded for days. Millions canceled travel plans. New construction came to a halt, as builders feared lawsuits in the event of an attack. Financial markets were devastated. And the costs of cleanup ran into the billions."
The presidential candidates are not the first to confront the question of Sept. 11 as a political issue. The attack on the World Trade Center occurred on what was supposed to be the day of the New York Democratic mayoral primary. The primary was postponed, and after a week of silence, the candidates began campaigning again. Pledges to the contrary, they argued angrily over how the city should rebuild its downtown.
And that, Mr. Giuliani says, is perhaps the way it should be.
"Sept. 11 happened while George Bush was president of the United States, and how he handles it is a significant factor in determining whether you are going to vote for him," Mr. Giuliani said. "It's not politicizing it. It's just a fact.
"Having been in politics, I can say there isn't too much that is off limits."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge, shown visiting the Coast Guard cutter Boutwell last week in Alameda, Calif., says he will not be taking part in any presidential or Congressional campaign events. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); GOVERNORS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%) ;HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; SHENON, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RIDGE, TOM (DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



738 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Mailing Checks For Child Tax Credit 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department has begun mailing out more than 25 million checks to families getting $400-a-child refunds as a result of an increase in the child tax credit. President Bush and Republican lawmakers are hoping that those taxpayers will be moved to spend, spend, spend. 
 Against concerns about the rising federal deficit (now projected at a record $455 billion) or the cost of maintaining troops in Iraq (almost $1 billion a week) supporters of the tax cuts that included the child-credit increase argue that a sluggish economy is best improved by Americans' keeping more of their money so they can spend it. 
 In Florida's Fifth Congressional District, where voters are registered as Republicans and Democrats in nearly equal numbers, interviews with dozens of parents found that most were indeed ready to spend the refund, though perhaps a third were set on saving it.
Article, Page A18. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 



739 of 739 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Bush Rejects Criticism Of Exaggerations on War
President Bush rejected criticism that he had exaggerated the urgency of going to war with Iraq and said American forces were "on the hunt" for Saddam Hussein. But at his first full-scale news conference in nearly five months, Mr. Bush also took responsibility for the first time for an assertion in his State of the Union address about the threat from Iraq's nuclear weapons program that turned out to be based on questionable intelligence. A1

The United States Marine colonel supervising the government reconstruction of Najaf indefinitely postponed the swearing-in of the first woman to serve as a judge there after her appointment provoked resentment and heated protests. A1

The president of the World Bank suggested that it would lend money for the reconstruction of Iraq only after the country wrote a constitution and conducted national elections. He also said some state-owned industries would have to be shut down or restructured. A16

U.N. Resolution on Liberia
The United States introduced a Security Council resolution that would authorize the peacekeeping force being assembled by West African countries to enforce the shaky cease-fire in Liberia. The proposal is likely to generate momentum for an intervention that has been stalled. A13

Afghan Cleric and Soldiers Die
Gunmen suspected of being Taliban supporters killed a senior cleric and two soldiers at a remote roadblock in separate attacks, in calculated killings aimed against government supporters, Afghan officials said. A10

African Ex-Warlord Dies
Foday Sankoh, the warlord from Sierra Leone who made mutilations his signature weapon of war, died of natural causes in the custody of a United Nations-backed war crimes tribunal, officials of the court announced. He was 66. A6

NATIONAL A18-23

Bush Urges Tolerance But Rejects Gay Marriage
President Bush said that, while he believed Americans should treat homosexuals in a welcoming and respectful manner, he remained firmly opposed to gay marriages and said that administration lawyers were working to ensure that the term "marriage" would cover only unions between men and women. A1

O'Malley Installed as Bishop
Sean P. O'Malley, a Capuchin friar, was installed as the new archbishop of Boston, putting him in charge of efforts to restore a church rocked in the last year and a half by a sexual abuse scandal. A18

A.C.L.U. Challenges Patriot Act
The American Civil Liberties Union and six Muslim groups brought the first constitutional challenge to the sweeping antiterrorism legislation passed after the Sept. 11 attacks, arguing that the law gives federal agents virtually unchecked authority to spy on Americans. A17

Judge Blocks P.O.W. Awards
A federal judge in Washington ruled that 17 former American prisoners of war might not collect the hundreds of millions of dollars they won in a lawsuit against Iraq. A21

Times to Assign Public Editor
The new executive editor of The New York Times accepted the major recommendations of three internal committees, including the suggestion that he appoint an editor to serve as a representative for readers. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Little Pain in Self-Termination
A survey of 102 Oregon nurses whose terminally ill patients refused water and food to hasten their deaths revealed that the patients died with little pain or suffering. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Bureaucracy Hides Failure Of Students to Graduate
Growing numbers of students -- most of them struggling academically -- are being pushed out of New York City's school system and classified under bureaucratic categories that hide their failure to graduate. A1

M.T.A. Fares May Not Increase
Commuters would be spared additional fare increases next year under a preliminary budget plan. B2

Mayor Criticizes Death Penalty
Mayor Bloomberg reiterated his opposition to the death penalty after Staten Island prosecutors said they would seek it for a man accused of killing two police officers. B3

Specialty Foods Thriving
The success story of a Queens bakery helps to explain why the manufacturing of specialty and ethnic foods is growing in the midst of a recession, and at a time when other manufacturing industries are fading. B1

SPORTS D1-7

ARTS E1-10

Speculation About Leaders
Speculation about who will lead two prominent Manhattan museums, the Frick Collection and the Whitney Museum of American Art, has become the hot topic in the art world. E1

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

OBITUARIES B9

Sam Phillips
The record producer who discovered Elvis Presley and helped usher in the rock 'n' roll revolution was 80. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Lord & Taylor Cuts Back
Lord & Taylor is closing 32 department stores, laying off 3,700 employees, and writing off whole states -- like Florida and Texas -- after becoming mired in a losing competition with lower-priced stores. C1

Plan for Iraq's Oil Industry
Iraqi and American officials have agreed on an eight month, $1.6 billion plan to begin rehabilitating Iraq's eroded oil industry after 12 years of United Nations sanctions and five months of war and looting. C5

New Team to Develop Drugs
Three universities in California are joining SRI International, a nonprofit research institute, to form Pharma-Start, a consortium aimed at moving drugs discovered at the schools into clinical trials. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The president's news conference: sidestepping on Iraq, and playing it safe on gays; Enron's friends in need; Brent Staples on city life: of barbecue and men.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E7
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D7
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (88%); JUDGES (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); GAYS & LESBIANS (85%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); WAR CRIMES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ESPIONAGE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); WOMEN (74%); US PATRIOT ACT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); RELIGION (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); LAWYERS (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); MARRIAGE (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); TERRORISM (64%); SCANDALS (64%); SEX SCANDALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); LIBERIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003 

 
