

1 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 21; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4898 words

HEADLINE: The (Bruised) Emperor of the Outdoors

BYLINE: By Timothy Egan; Timothy Egan is Seattle bureau chief of The Times and the author of two books about the American West.

 BODY:
A boy's life in the American West can be like a summer that never ends. So it was for Bruce Babbitt, who grew up with the sunset-colored breach of the Grand Canyon as his backyard. He chased deer, caught snakes, built tree forts, floated rivers, scavenged for arrowheads, fought forest fires, fished with Indians, shot birds, followed dinosaur tracks, skied the first snow of November and dreamed about it all at night. He never spent much time with the Boy Scouts, he said, because it would have been superfluous.
In January of this year, as Babbitt became the 47th Secretary of the Interior, the Bible had barely closed at the swearing-in ceremony when he allowed himself a kid-in-charge-of-the-candy-warehouse chuckle. The vast public domain, shrines of the natural world and the big scraps left over from the land America took from the natives, bought from the Europeans and wrestled away from the Mexicans, was his to run. Babbitt was given control of an area bigger than France -- 503 million acres of forests and open range, national parks and wildlife refuges, seashores and Indian reservations. 
 That Babbitt has gone from a rockhound in cutoffs to the emperor of the outdoors does not surprise longtime acquaintances. If the Babbitts, who are as established in Arizona as the saguaro cactus, are somewhat like the Kennedys of the West, then Bruce is most like Bobby. Roman Catholics who inherited wealth and a sense of destiny, both men dreamed big, fell hard, betrayed their class and followed contrarian impulses. Scion of a legendary Western ranching family, Babbitt lashed out at big cattle operations as rangeland villains. Though he is a liberal Democrat, his staunchest supporters have included the most conservative of Arizona Republicans, simply because they like him. As a reformist state attorney general, he so enraged organized crime that a contract was put out on his life. While he was a partner in a well-connected Phoenix law firm, he urged environmentalists to avoid the establishment, saying they should fight on as "barbarians in the hills."
Inside his Cabinet office in Washington, with its tea-colored, wood-paneled walls, working fireplace and bald-eagle sculpture (the raptor is caught in mid-flight), Babbitt is a long way from the front lines of rebel environmentalism. His work space is more like a 19th-century country club den, a place with a history of deal-cutting between men of great wealth and the guardian of public lands. But from this lair, Babbitt is directing a campaign against what he calls the "Lords of Yesterday," the old forces of Government-subsidized industry that have shaped development of the West, the main realm of Interior. It does not seem at all incongruous to him that a man whose family owns a ranch nearly as big as some Eastern states is leading this charge. If anything, he says, protesting his own privilege makes him more qualified.
After a very public trial ballooning in June as President Clinton's leading choice for a vacant Supreme Court seat, Babbitt seems more committed than ever to a job he says he was born to do. He has mixed feelings about losing the court nomination, which slipped away after Clinton, a friend of 20 years, was lobbied by rabid Babbitt supporters who wanted him to stay put at Interior.
"My consolation prize is I get to spend my summers fishing in Alaska and camping in Yellowstone doing a job I really love," he says. Hooking salmon and dozing next to a campfire will be the easy parts; Babbitt is challenging the forces of history, mythic and real, that shaped the American West. And one of his biggest obstacles may turn out to be his own boss, Bill Clinton.
BABBITT HAD NOT BEEN IN office more than a few weeks when he began barnstorming around the West preaching his new gospel. "The long dark period is over," he told a room packed with Federal employees in Phoenix. "The lights are on once again at the Interior Department."
He was alluding to a 12-year Republican reign of Interior secretaries, starting with James Watt, the pro-industry lawyer who did more to anger and galvanize the environmental movement than anything except the Exxon Valdez oil spill, and ending with Manuel Lujan Jr., who often seemed befuddled by the complexities of his job.
"We are all about the perpetual American love affair with the land," Babbitt said to a group of Bureau of Land Management employees in Albuquerque. "The Department of the Environment -- that's us." Somewhat puzzled by the pep talk, the men and women who wear the uniform of the B.L.M. have long been denigrated as the Bureau of Livestock and Mining.
And to an assembly of engineers with the Bureau of Reclamation in Denver, Babbitt issued an invitation: "Let's reinvent the West." Babbitt has long feuded with the agency nicknamed "Bureau of Wreck-lamation" for its dam-building projects, which have considerably remade the landscape. For years, he said the bureau should be abolished. Now, he envisions the Federal engineers getting out of the job of stopping free-flowing streams and into the business of trying to restore river systems damaged by excessive overhauling of the natural plumbing.
A few weeks later, Babbitt went even further, saying he would like to be the first Interior Secretary to blow up a dam -- a half-century-old plug on the Elwha River in Olympic National Park that was built without fish ladders and killed off a run of legendary 100-pound chinook salmon.
Blue-eyed, sandy-haired and as peripatetic as a preacher with five days left to the apocalypse, Babbitt delivers his speeches with campaign gusto and a seize-the-moment sense of historical urgency. At age 55, he moves through life at a sprint. To his critics, he comes across as a self-righteous zealot, pushing an urban environmental agenda on traditional rural people. They see him as a green James Watt. Babbitt says his mission, seven years before the end of the millennium, is to bring the public lands of the West into the 20th century, and to see if the rest of the country can make peace with its flora and fauna.
"The winning of the West is past," he says. "People don't want to win the West; they want to save it."
He is gambling that the New West, which, surprisingly, has the highest concentration of people living in urban areas of any region, is ready to challenge some of the mythological elements of its past, the ones that have ossified into policy on the range. There may be only 28,000 ranchers running cattle on 280 million acres of public land, but they are represented by a highly effective lobby, complete with slow-talking cowpunchers in oversized Stetsons brought out for Congressional hearings. Critics call them "welfare cowboys," millionaires who have been allowed to graze livestock on huge swaths of Federal land for fees that are but a fraction of the free-market rate. But there are many small, marginal operators, who depend on that same land as as well, whose livelihoods would be threatened. Babbitt says that for both big and small ranchers the low cost discourages good stewardship. Similarly, miners have been able to claw gold, silver and other minerals from Federal lands without paying a dime in royalties -- a system established by President Ulysses S. Grant in 1872 to encourage Western development.
In his first tour of the West as Interior Secretary, Babbitt signaled a historic shift: the era of the big subsidies, "the giveaway" of public resources, as he called it, was over. But only a few months into office, Babbitt's vision of the New West ran smack into the Old West. Just as he was gearing up the campaign for change, President Clinton, under pressure from some of the same Western senators who have long protected the livestock and mining industries, withdrew from his budget proposal the plan to raise fees.
Environmentalists cried cave-in; their hero had been kneecapped. "I've never seen a white flag go up so quickly," Michael Francis of the Wilderness Society says. Two months earlier, when Babbitt was selected, the same group had said of the Interior designee, "He is Babe Ruth to us." But as the Babe knew, swinging for the fences often brings more strikeouts than four-baggers.
Even the ranchers' lobby was stunned at how quickly Clinton had taken the entire Western land reform package off the table. "We knew some of the Western senators were trying to get some reduction, but we never thought the whole thing would be gone," says Tom Cook, a vice president with the National Cattlemen's Association. In dropping the land fees, the President was trying to line up Senate votes for his $16 billion economic stimulus package. But ultimately, he lost the jobs bill to a solid Republican filibuster. The Western lands proposal turned into an empty trade, and Babbitt was left looking humiliated.
What's more, the critics were emboldened by a taste of early blood. "If Babbitt's reforms go through you'll have a very severe political backlash," says Wayne Hage, a rancher in Tonopah, Nev., a hero of the so-called Wise Use movement, which is fighting environmental restrictions. Hage, like other ranchers, considers his permit to graze livestock on 700,000 acres of national forest land in Nevada a property right. Change is not welcome. Three years ago, when a Forest Service ranger in southern Idaho tried to place new restrictions on the way cattlemen graze their herds on the open range, one rancher publicly threatened to kill him.
Back on the Western trail after the setback, Babbitt made jokes at his own expense. Unlike many leaders in the environmental movement, who can be as dour as a wet sleeping bag, he has an active sense of humor. In jest, he can be at his most candid.
When a Federal biologist in Colorado asked him about the decision to retreat on grazing fees and mining royalties, Babbitt said, "You mean why did we wimp out?" The audience of scientists laughed, then applauded his follow-up.
"We got singed on that one," Babbitt said. "But I guarantee you, we are not retreating from the battle."
Before the year was out, he promised, he would have a new fee structure in place for ranchers, and the Government charging royalities to miners. "1993 will be the year of reform for public land and water issues," Babbitt said.
IN MID-SPRING, THE jet stream was parked over the Pacific Northwest, carrying a load of precipitation in from the Pacific. Babbitt stood on a ridge in the Olympic National Forest, a place where it can rain up to 220 inches a year and trees grow like teen-agers on a Snickers diet.
The midriff of the Olympic Mountains used to be mantled in green, Babbitt noted as he walked among a sea of clear-cuts, the ground scalped to muddy brown. Nearly 50 years ago, the United States Forest Service signed an agreement giving the Simpson Timber Company exclusive rights to log more than 100,000 acres of public land, a pact designed to keep timber jobs in the area. But now many of the trees and the jobs, along with the fish and wildlife of this forest, are gone or disappearing. Soil and debris from the clear-cuts have slid down into the South Fork of the Skokomish River, clogging the river with sediment. The Fish and Wildlife Service says the area is a disaster.
"A tale of death and destruction," Babbitt said, traipsing through the mud with foresters and biologists. But he also saw a glimpse of the future in the Olympic Mountain mist. A month after President Clinton held a forest conference in Portland, Ore., to try and settle the war between loggers and tree-huggers, Babbitt was in the woods seeking the raw shape of a settlement. He wondered how much it would cost to put unemployed loggers back to work restoring the land that has been scarred by timber harvesting. And if the rivers were full of salmon again, he asked, what would that do for the local economy?
In early July, Clinton announced his forestry plan, saying it probably would not please either side. He was right. The plan would reduce logging on Federal land in the Northwest to 25 percent of the high marks of the mid-1980's, and would provide $1.2 billion in economic aid to depressed timber communities over five years. It also seeks to protect the lifeblood of what is left of the old-growth forests, the salmon streams and watersheds. Clinton was not enthusiastic about the plan and fought Babbitt on it, looking for the win-win compromise he had promised. Babbitt tried to explain to the President that higher logging levels could not be sustained, legally or environmentally. The forests had been "cynically overcut in the 1980's," he said, leading to an ecological debt.
"The President was clearly disappointed," says Babbitt. "He pushed me around hard on whether there could be any other result. I finally had to say, 'This is the best we can do within the existing law.' "
Still, it was not enough to satisfy the House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley, who has long supported timber interests in his Washington State district. Calling the Clinton plan unbalanced and a threat to industry, Foley blew up at Babbitt. In the past, when powerful members of the Northwest Congressional delegation wanted more logging out of the Forest Service, they got it, by amendment or pressure. But not this time.
"The Speaker saw this as a fork in the road," Babbitt says. "He felt it was going to be necessary to re-examine the laws."
That sets the course for what could be a monumental collision over the Endangered Species Act, which Babbitt calls "the most powerful environmental statute ever enacted." All sides in the forest conflict were brought to the brink by the law that gives vanishing creatures equal consideration with timber operations and housing developments. It has been bashed as an eco-weapon out of control.
Babbitt has set out to make the Endangered Species Act a friend to business -- an impossible task, some critics say. Ike Sugg, a Competitive Enterprise Institute fellow who has written extensively about the high price of environmental protection, has estimated that the law has cost developers "tens of billions of dollars."
The Reagan and Bush Administrations seemed intent on sabotaging the law, allowing, according to Babbitt, different Federal agencies to issue conflicting edicts. "First they ignored it; then they abused it," he says.
Babbitt is trying to be less rigid. In Southern California, he brokered a settlement giving protection to the gnatcatcher, a songbird whose coastal sage habitat is fast disappearing, while still giving the go-ahead to housing developments that had threatened the bird. Then he approved a plan by the Georgia-Pacific Corporation to save the red cockaded woodpecker with buffer zones totaling about 50,000 acres. In both cases, Babbitt essentially swapped acres -- a nest here and there, stands of old trees and untrammeled ravines in exchange for plots of land that can go under the bulldozer or chain saw. "We are on the threshold of the most extraordinary test of our time to see if we have the scientific capacity and will to make that act work," he says.
Saving woodpeckers and gnatcatchers in the era of a President who promised to "focus like a laser beam" on the economy may not be an achievement a politically wobbly Clinton can take to the voters in 1996. Babbitt says the West, where 7 of the 11 states went for Clinton last year, can become a natural Democratic constituency, because of its high quotient of urban environmentalists. But he also sees an opportunity beyond the next election.
"In the American conservation movement, there have been two large moments," he says. "One was the time of Teddy Roosevelt, when we first started creating the land management ethic. The second came in the 1960's and 70's, when Rachel Carson's work stimulated concern about toxic chemicals and industrial pollution. What we are now getting into is a third era which is infinitely more complex because it asks a new question, a very subtle question of how we live in association with the natural environment. It goes to how we view ourselves living on the land."
The crucial word is "We." Other environmental leaders have excluded humans from their conception of the natural ecology. Teddy Roosevelt thundered against timber barons, and then created huge national forest reserves to keep industry from cutting the big trees down. The reign of Interior Secretary Stewart Udall in the 60's gave birth to the Wilderness Act and placement of millions of acres of pristine land in permanent sanctuaries. Babbitt would like to preserve the basic nature of the country's ecosystems, from the swamplands of Florida, to the lakes country of the Upper Midwest, to the Potomac River system, to the glacier-carved valleys of Alaska -- with people sharing the land with the creatures that are being pushed out.
It sounds idyllic. But the issue is being forced. Under a Federal court settlement that the Bush Administration agreed to, the Government must decide whether to put an additional 400 species under the protection of the Endangered Species Act in the next three years. Any one of those listings could blow up in the Administration's face -- as the next spotted owl nightmare -- or be a model for future consensus.
"I used to drive to work in downtown Phoenix and see the peregrine falcons nesting in the skyscrapers," Babbitt says. "I saw that as a kind of metaphor for how we are both trying to live in the same area. Really, the core issue for me is: Can we live without wreaking havoc on each other?"
BABBITT ONCE STAYED up all night atop an Arizona peak with Edward Abbey, the author of "Desert Solitaire" and other paeans to the beauty of the arid West. They sipped whisky under the stars, watched the sun rise, and then Abbey disappeared into the dawn.
It is impossible to understand Babbitt without a sense of what the outdoors means to him. With his Harvard Law degree and recent stint as president of the League of Conservation Voters, he can sound like an Eastern liberal at times, but he is more Teddy Roosevelt than Teddy Kennedy. He evokes the West of "A River Runs Through It," Norman Maclean's homage to Montana fly-fishing, rather than the land of Frederic Remington's cavalry brigade. His heroes are men of action with sunburns, people who explored hidden reaches of rock, ice and riverway and then wrote great books that rallied support for national parks.
His family imprint is all over the map of northern Arizona, where the Painted Desert folds into the San Francisco Peaks. He grew up in Flagstaff, a town of 48,000 people stitched to the Colorado Plateau, nearly 7,000 feet above sea level. An ancient land carved and colored by wind, water and sun over 10 million years, the Grand Canyon country is one of the few places on earth that has an instant, sometimes life-changing effect on people when they first see it. The Anasazi natives, still the source of great mystery as to why they vanished in the 15th century, lived for nearly 800 years among the red rock and layered bluffs. Later came the Navajos, Hopis, a one-armed American geologist named John Wesley Powell and five Babbitt Brothers from Ohio, who arrived in 1886.
The Babbitts, according to Arizona lore, were the original padrones of Flagstaff, arriving just as the frontier was closing. They acquired an enormous amount of ranch property during the Depression of 1893 and set up trading posts in and around the Navajo and Hopi reservations. They sold the native people tools, groceries and machinery, and bought jewelry, pottery, blankets and artwork from them. The arrangement still exists; the family's trading post in Tuba City is one of the oldest commercial enterprises in Navajo country. The Babbitts have sold some of their family holdings and they retain a 500,000-acre ranch -- a spread of shortgrass and ponderosa that covers an area two-thirds the size of Rhode Island.
Babbitt's childhood sounds like episodes from the young Indiana Jones. At age 15, he lied about his age to a Forest Service recruiter; by saying he was 18, he was able to fight fires in the woods above Flagstaff. "I lived for the next issue of National Geographic," he says. "I was always looking at the land and collecting fossils, always wanting to get to the next thing on the horizon, whether it was a mountaintop or another trail on the Grand Canyon."
More than anything, the 5,000-foot-deep canyon defines Babbitt. He has floated the raging white water of the Colorado River many times and skied into the breach in the dead of winter. A state trooper once got hypothermia accompanying Babbitt, as Governor, during one of his canyon expeditions.
At the University of Notre Dame, where he was student-body president, Babbitt took a degree in geology, but picked up a broader education in the Catholic social activism espoused by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, the school's longtime president.
While in graduate school at the University of Newcastle in England, Babbitt was selected to go work with Gulf Oil in a mountainous basin of the Amazon River in South America. "It was the apotheosis of my childhood fantasy: virgin jungle, research, flying across mountaintops in a helicopter," he says. "But at one point we were out setting up base camps, where we had these tents and cooks and martinis at night. And somehow I was just so struck by the contrast between a landscape of people starving to death and me sitting in the lap of this frontier luxury, that it started eating at me. I had found the Amazon, and discovered that it wasn't what I was all about. Watching these people in rags in Bolivia, I realized I'm more a part of the world and people problems than this extravagant adventure."
Instead of getting a doctorate at Newcastle and going into the mining industry, as he had planned, Babbitt enrolled at Harvard Law School. From there, he worked for Vista in Washington, marched for civil rights in the South, then returned to Arizona to practice law in 1967.
His career has had an uncanny resemblance to that of Bill Clinton's. Babbitt had no military service, was elected State Attorney General, then governor, and, with Clinton, helped to found the Democratic Leadership Council in 1985, which charted a more centrist path for the party. He married a lawyer, Hattie Coons, now the ambassador to the Organization of American States, and they have two children, Christopher, 17, and T. J., 15.
As Attorney General in Arizona, Babbitt became a local hero when he went after organized crime for land fraud. The mob fought back, putting a contract out on his life, as well as that of an Arizona Republic reporter, Don Bolles, according to court testimony. Babbitt escaped harm, but Bolles was killed when an explosion ripped his car apart in 1976 -- though it was never clear exactly who ordered the murder. The tough-on-crime image helped Babbitt win two terms as Governor of Arizona, a heavily Republican state.
With eight years in the State House behind him, Babbitt ran for President in 1988. He was beloved by the press, who followed him on sub-zero biking trips in Iowa and climbing outings in New Hampshire, but ignored by most voters. Though he denounced Ronald Reagan, saying he ran "a Government by Teleprompter in which words and deeds seem to have lost all logical connection," it was Babbitt's inability to master Reagan's medium that may have done him in. Despite his Jimmy Stewart amiability in person, he can come across on television as Richard Nixon without the sweaty upper lip. The voice is deep, the facial movements sometimes erratic. Asked during the campaign about his poor image on the tube, Babbitt said, "If they can teach Mr. Ed to talk, they can do something for me."
The 1988 campaign ended for him after a weak showing in New Hampshire -- the only election he ever lost. Babbitt says he has given up all aspirations for future elective office. But the ambition ticker started up again this summer when the President asked him if he would consider a Supreme Court nomination. "I thought, on the one hand I'm too young to take a vow of political celibacy and go off to the monastery," Babbitt says. "But on the other hand. . . ." his voice trails off, a hint of his disappointment. Clinton chose Ruth Bader Ginsburg instead.
AS INTERIOR Secretary, Babbitt's greatest challenge is in the West, where the Federal Government has been a landlord of many moods. Starting with railroad land grants of 1862, the Government has long subsidized development of the area west of the 100th meridian, America's mythic landscape. Most of it was thought to be largely useless land, there for the taking.
Today, Babbitt says, Federal mining laws remain an area where "the unrestrained, giveaway, environment-be-damned attitude of the 19th century persists." He knows the forces of the ages are strong, and will not change without a big fight. One opponent of Babbitt's reforms, Senator Conrad Burns, Republican of Montana, argues that charging royalities for mining public land will kill the small claims prospector and send the industry to South America.
In Babbitt's view, he is reflecting popular political sentiment in the West. Some Rocky Mountain states are leading the nation in the rate of new job growth, and they are doing it with businesses that are no longer tied to gouging the scenery. Booming communities in Colorado, New Mexico, Idaho, Oregon, Montana, Nevada and Arizona are full of people who do business by fax and phone, and then catch brook trout 15 minutes from their home.
"It is both good politics and good policy to have someone in there at Interior who understands that jobs versus the environment is not the future," says Phil Keisling, Oregon's Secretary of State. "Bush never understood that."
But after Clinton withdrew the Western land reform measures, and resisted the timber plan until it was obvious he had no other choice, there is now also a question of whether this President understands it either. Babbitt asserts, without equivocation, that Clinton will not undercut him. "We are 100 percent on the same bus. I have known him for 20 years, I respect him enormously and I accepted this job in the spirit of that relationship. The mining and grazing flap was about tactics, and I willingly defer to his political judgment on pace."
Throughout the summer, Babbitt has been visiting small Western communities, trying to sell mining and grazing reform. Typically, the crowds arrive angry, and organized, but leave with grudging respect and a sense of inevitablity. "We see some of the handwriting on the wall," says Cook, the National Cattlemen's Association lobbyist, who recently met with Babbitt. "But we are not going to fold up our tents and go away."
Babbitt, acknowledging political reality, points out that the New West is full of prosperous towns living side by side with wild and unspoiled land. But for every recreational mecca, there is a potential ghost town. The failure to help such communities make the transition could bring a backlash, and renew charges that Babbitt's vision of a green future is something only the elite can enjoy.
NEARLY EVERY WEEK, Babbitt's schedule includes a trip to some canyon, seashore, national park, mountain range, desert, wildlife refuge or historic site. With everything from maintenance of the Statue of Liberty to Indian relations under its aegis, the Interior Department is a grab bag of American history -- and its leftovers. Among his goals in the East, Babbitt says he would like to help restore Atlantic salmon runs in New England and fish populations in rivers like the Potomac. He has also targeted with special urgency the Everglades, sick from years of water mismanagement. In mid-July, Babbitt unveiled a plan to rechannel some of the natural flow of water in the Florida national park.
Meanwhile, environmentalists want desert land in Calfornia and a piece of tallgrass prairie on the Great Plains made into national parks. They would seem to have a natural ally in Babbitt, who as Arizona Governor used to lobby for wilderness by quoting from a literary hero and environmental pioneer, Aldo Leopold. But he has not shown his hand on future parks.
One of his biggest initiatives will be the creation of a National Biological Survey, a corps of Government scientists who will do a continuing inventory of American land and wildlife. In one of the early meetings of the group in Denver, Babbitt told them he had a personal stake in the survey. The first attempt to do an ecosystem study in America came at the turn of the century, when C. Hart Merriam set up base camp on the Babbitt family ranch. Merriam's ghost, like that of John Wesley Powell, Edward Abbey and others who have wandered from the crest of the Painted Desert to the lip of the Grand Canyon looking for answers from the geologic ages, have passed a sense of duty to Babbitt.
Right now Babbitt is acting on his dreams, But if during the next few years he runs into strong political turbulence, and becomes worn down by the winds of Washington, he can always retreat to the place in northern Arizona that was his boyhood haunt: "I have a wonderful spot above Flagstaff, a place in the mountains with aspen glades and wild iris and butterflys all around. I used to go up there alone, throw my sleeping bag down and spend the night. It wasn't a big mystical thing. I just like to savor it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Interior Secretary near Bozeman, Mont. "We are all about the perpetual American love affair with the land," Babbitt says of his department. (Photograph by Dan Winters for The New York Times)(pg. 20); The five Babbitt brothers -- George, Charles, Edward, William and David -- arrived in Flagstaff, Ariz., from Ohio just as the frontier was closing. (Cline Library, Special Collections and Archives, Northern Arizona University); A century later, Bruce Babbitt assists in a demonstration of watershed erosion control in Washington State. (Robbie McClaran for The New York Times)(pg. 22); The peripatetic Interior Secretary at a railroad bridge near Pyramid Lake, Nev. (Photograph by Dan Winters for The New York Times)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (75%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT NORTHERN ARIZONA UNIVERSITY (59%); NORTHERN ARIZONA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT NORTHERN ARIZONA UNIVERSITY (59%); NORTHERN ARIZONA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (75%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MAMMALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); SKIING (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); BIRDS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (72%); FOREST FIRES (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); LAWYERS (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (66%); ORGANIZED CRIME (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; BABBITT, BRUCE (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BABBITT, BRUCE (SEC) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



2 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 2; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2027 words

HEADLINE: Early Music Goes Flat in New York

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
New York does not always lead the international classical-music scene, but it generally follows close behind. Lord knows, it is not the kind of city to get out of the way. Yet in one of the liveliest and most sweeping musical trends of the century, the Early Music movement, New York has seemed oddly content of late to lag far behind not only European cities like London, Amsterdam and Paris but also American ones like Boston and San Francisco.
True, music of the medieval, Renaissance and Baroque periods abounds in churches and small halls around New York. But the term Early Music has come to mean more: not only an ancient body of works but an esthetic of performance. Over the last decade, the ethic of period performance practice, originally meant to recreate the long-lost sonorities and styles of genuinely early repertories, has been extended boldly through the 19th century and tentatively into the 20th. 
 In the process, groups of period instrumentalists and singers have had to evolve just the way their historical counterparts did, expanding to meet the demands of increasingly complex repertory. Omens were good for a time in New York. As recently as the mid-80's, the Mostly Mozart Festival mustered a band of period players for the English conductor Christopher Hogwood. And in 1988, the Classical Band was formed for another Englishman, Trevor Pinnock. But both efforts died after a few years.
Mostly Mozart still makes occasional nods toward Early Music, this year with imported talent. Tafelmusik, of Toronto, will perform at Avery Fisher Hall on Thursday evening, followed a week later by Les Arts Florissants, from Paris. In a curious turnabout, these groups are led by Americans who might have been expected to settle in New York: Tafelmusik by Jeanne Lamon, originally of Larchmont, N.Y.; Les Arts Florissants by William Christie, a native of Buffalo.
Why have Ms. Lamon and Mr. Christie chosen to ply their trade so far from home? And why has no one come forward in New York to make permanent large-scale use of the rich pool of Early Music specialists? Why, in short, does Early Music still seem to struggle in New York while it thrives in so many other cities?
When that question was put to performers and presenters in New York and elsewhere, many causes were cited, ranging from an absence of certified stars and the sheer amount of competing activity to the basic conservatism of the city's musical establishment. The style, characterized by nuance and grace, is suited to cities with dominant academic communities, like Boston and San Francisco, and a poor match for the brawling, sprawling diversity of New York.
"Perhaps New York and Early Music are just culturally incompatible," suggested Stephen Hammer, a leading period oboist. "Having followed the Classical Band story from the beginning, I feel that it is very much a New York story, one for which our entire community, musicians, administration, audience and press is responsible."
It is certainly true that the Classical Band failed to capture the imagination of the New York musical community. The lackluster results achieved by an absentee director met with scorn from critics and indifference from audiences. Mr. Pinnock was quickly replaced by Bruno Weil, and although the group made strides toward respectability, the public, once burned, was slow to respond. The only parties solidly behind the venture, it seemed, were Deutsche Grammophon and Sony, yet despite healthy recording advances, the band fell into insolvency early last year.
So New York is left again without a period orchestra working in a major venue. But if the city and Early Music are indeed incompatible, 'twas not ever thus. In simpler days, when Early Music meant really early music, New York was a thriving center. Performances at the beginning of the century by the pioneering eccentric Arnold Dolmetsch paved the way for a sustained effort beginning in the 50's by the charismatic Noah Greenberg and the New York Pro Musica Antiqua, the group that put early music on the map for many Americans.
But came the Baroque boom of the 60's and 70's, and self-styled specialists like Dolmetsch and Greenberg gave way to performers steeped in musicology and eager to duplicate the circumstances of a work's creation, to respond to the composer's every intention, using "original instruments" in more or less strict adherence to period practice. Dutch, German and Austrian musicians took the lead but were soon surpassed in zealotry by the English. New York was poised to follow.
"Ten to 15 years ago," said the oboist Mr. Hammer, New York was a hotbed of activity. "Concert Royal, the Grande Bande, the Waverly Consort, the Mozartean Players, Aston Magna and a number of other enterprises were all giving well-attended concerts in major venues. I moved here from the Boston area in 1982 to be closer to this fertile environment." Now, Mr. Hammer added, he earns most of his living playing out of town.
Boston, meanwhile, has become the more fertile environment. Despite dire financial reports, the Boston Early Music Festival keeps rolling around every two years, in alternation with the Berkeley Festival in California. Although the Boston Early Music Festival Orchestra, which had some splendid outings, no longer tours, Mr. Hogwood has transformed the venerable Handel and Haydn Society into a period group using many of the same players -- including the peripatetic Mr. Hammer.
All the groups Mr. Hammer mentioned continue to perform early repertory in small venues, often with good success. Yet they generate limited excitement. Some have fared well abroad, as the Grande Bande did early this year at the Hong Kong Festival with three programs celebrating the 350th anniversary of Monteverdi's birth. Typically, New York saw only one of the programs, an evening of madrigals at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine; "Orfeo" and the 1610 Vespers were for Hong Kong consumption only.
IF ANYONE CAN BE SAID TO wear the mantle of Noah Greenberg, it may be Frederick Renz, the director of the Grande Bande and of the Ensemble for Early Music, which grew out of New York Pro Musica in 1974. Mr. Renz has sometimes delivered superior performances, as in the Monteverdi concert. What is needed in addition is some of Greenberg's larger-than-life personality, to galvanize the Early Music scene in the city and fix the attention of the public.
"When I was living in the States 20 years ago," recalled Mr. Christie, "I already had the idea that one of the real problems was a lack of direction, a lack of inspired director-leaders. It seems so strange that New York has not really had a major Baroque figure for years. And that's what seems to me lacking: someone who's enough of a visionary, enough of a risk taker, and persuasive and seductive enough to get the public and the sponsors behind him." Mr. Christie, of course, has since become all of those things, to no particular benefit of New York.
Such figures are rare at any time, and a New York music world still largely governed by attitudes of Central European conservatism might not welcome one in any case. James Richman, the director of Concert Royale, views Mr. Christie's career longingly.
"I stuck here. Maybe that was a terrible mistake. Bill Christie had no hopes in America, so he moved to Paris, where there was absolutely nothing in Early Music when he went. And look what's happened. There's been a sea change here against it, in terms of funding and press and all the rest, and a sea change there in favor of it."
Mr. Richman has carved out a valuable niche for his group, offering polished, often invigorating concert and stage performances of Baroque music. In the current Balkanized context in New York, a niche seems to be the most one can hope for.
"We were all too idealistic," he said. "Ignoring the personality-cult thing was a terrible mistake. It was a mistake that wasn't made by our English brethren. We were just this sort of amorphous group of nice people doing this stuff, and it was kind of interesting, but it didn't have star impact. These people who came from Europe had a much brighter sense of what it meant to make a career."
Early Music in New York, of course, is caught in a confluence of larger problems: those of all classical music in New York and of Early Music in the country as a whole. Economic realities are hard. Subsidies and sponsorships for such activities are generally harder to come by in the United States than in Europe nowadays.
Nicholas McGegan, the English director of the burgeoning Philharmonia Baroque in San Francisco, said that he counts himself an honorary American, then leveled this criticism: "So long as arts is considered a four-letter word in American governmental circles, we're not going to get very far. That's the basic problem."
Still, some American cities do offer advantages. Mr. McGegan cited a San Francisco hotel tax as being crucial to the Philharmonia's success. "The city gets something over $30 million to support the arts, paid for by tourists," he explained. "My orchestra gets $30,000 or $40,000 a year out of the tax, which is certainly a make-or-break thing in the budget. And I don't think anyone in New York gets anything like that."
New York is also deficient in halls in the range of 800 to 1,000 seats: large enough to offer attractive financial prospects yet small enough to give the often delicate sound impact.
"To be able to create something new these days is really an assignment," said Frederick Noonan, the associate director of programming at Lincoln Center. "You have to have the charismatic figure. You have to have an administrator who really knows what he's doing and is a schmoozer and a fund-raiser and is organized and has a staff that is willing to work for low pay and long hours. And you've got to have a hospitable environment with a venue. And where can that happen?"
Many performers feel that it should be happening more at Lincoln Center. In addition to the "original instrument" sideline at Mostly Mozart, the center used to offer Great Performances series devoted to Early Music. Although the halls are far from ideal, most players find them a reasonable compromise: The overlarge Avery Fisher Hall (2,700 seats) is at least bright and clear; the dull-sounding Alice Tully Hall (1,100 seats) is at least close to the right size.
"What we're doing is sort of blending Early Music into our chamber-orchestra series," said Jane Moss, the new director of programming at Lincoln Center. "Our feeling is that it's become such a fixture in a way that it doesn't need special treatment. And in an odd way, I find that encouraging. The other direction I see in the future would be to have more of our presentations in that area be focused on repertory, as opposed to just the fact that it's a period-instrument group. I love the fact that it doesn't have to be ghettoized."
Ms. Lamon, of Tafelmusik, agrees. "It's good for Early Music to stop being a niche or a fringe thing. What we do I think would benefit any group: Stop calling yourself period-instrument or Early Music, and just call yourself a chamber orchestra and talk about the repertory you're playing. It's my business what instrument I choose to play on, not something that the audience has to worry about. They should just be thinking, 'Ah, I'm going to hear Vivaldi and Bach, my favorite music.' "
THE MOVEMENT, IF IT can be called that under such circumstances, has come a long way since the days when the phrase "original instruments" was emblazoned on records and concert programs as a Good Housekeeping seal of approval. Should New Yorkers take consolation after all in the thought that they are simply missing a monumental nonevent?
No. No one who heard the Boston Early Music Festival at its best or hears Les Arts Florissants next week is likely to be fobbed off so easily. There are qualities of suppleness and suavity to fine period instruments, well played, that combine thrillingly in quantity. Many of the best players in the world are based in New York. How we gonna keep 'em down on the farm after they've played Paris?

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cellist Anner Bylsma with Tafelmusik, the Toronto-based ensemble that will perform at Mostly Mozart -- Another import. (Gary Beechey/Tafelmusik)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); 

COMPANY: TAFELMUSIK BAROQUE ORCHESTRA; LES ARTS FLORISSANTS

ORGANIZATION: TAFELMUSIK BAROQUE ORCHESTRA; LES ARTS FLORISSANTS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC MUSIC (95%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FESTIVALS (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R TREVOR DAVID PINNOCK (54%); CHRISTOPHER HOGWOOD (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



3 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Through the Looking Glass and Into 'Our Town'

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: PETERBOROUGH, N.H.

 BODY:
What Thornton Wilder seized upon as the simplest stuff of human drama is still scattered about this unaffected town more than half a century later, from cemetery glade to lacy front porch.
It feels natural here to remember young Emily and George shyly approaching love and beyond in "Our Town." Still, a visitor may owe it to Wilder's memory to also keep in mind a bit of murderous Uncle Charley terrorizing his small-town kin in "Shadow of a Doubt," the 1943 Hitchcock movie Wilder co-wrote from the same character ingredients of the shadowy American soul. 
 "I have set the village against the largest dimensions of time and place," Wilder wrote of "Our Town." This was after its revolutionary bare-stage starkness and stage-manager chorus was coming to be shaded in weaker, treacle-rich productions that overplayed his small-town evocations of life and death, love and suffering, themes that echo everywhere, no less in modern Peterborough, where he modeled and wrote the play.
"The recurrent words in this play (few have noticed it) are 'hundreds,' 'thousands' and 'millions,' " Wilder wrote, frustrated that his harsher points about life's ephemera -- "the life of a village against the life of the stars" -- might be lost. The playwright's stage instructions in 1938 included explicit cautions against sentimentality and lugubriousness; one Grover's Corners character, Simon Stimson, even earned his place in the climactic Act III graveyard scene -- all the dead patiently sitting in kitchen chairs -- by committing suicide. "To spend and waste time as though you had a million years," he scoffs at the living from Wilder's other side.
Charles Morey seems to have all this and more in mind as he directs a new production of "Our Town" this summer with the Peter borough Players, one of the nation's more durable resident stock companies, which is celebrating its 60th anniversary and presenting its fifth version of "Our Town."
"Every high school does it and people have a view of it as a sentimental postcard," notes Mr. Morey, who acted and directed in Peterborough for a decade before becoming artistic director of the Pioneer Theater Company in Salt Lake City. "But there is a real hard edge running through the middle of this play about death and loss and the ephemeral nature of human existence."
Wilder, who died in 1975 at the age of 78, had been a prodigy on the country roads about this 260-year-old town as he took walks during 10 summer stays at the MacDowell writers' and artists' colony, pondering Dante's "Purgatorio" and Peterborough's routine as he concocted Grover's Corners. "Each individual's assertion to an absolute reality can only be inner, very inner," wrote Wilder later. "Our claim, our hope, our despair are in the mind -- not in things, not in 'scenery,' " he decided.
Even so, the hamlets and Main Streets of the Monadnock region yield a cornucopia of graceful New England scenery that had to inspire Wilder, if only to strip down its stage presence to a few planks and chairs. If Wilder were alive to update the play, he now could have the stage manager dryly note that Peterborough lately held off an attempt to open a McDonald's here, recession or not, and that, thank you, there is yet no local Christmas-every-day shop reeking of potpourri and commercial schmaltz, as there is up north in the more touristy belt.
"Whatever you do, don't portray us as hokey," warns Nancy Gorr at the Chamber of Commerce. "We aren't. It's a pretty sophisticated area -- lecture series, hard-working residents, publishing companies, lots of foreign service people, not all blue jeans and overalls."
So true is this, in fact, that it would be hard to imagine how Wilder might integrate the brief evening tableau in a parking lot the other night when a tanned, handsome middle-class couple was noticed ducking behind a map in their touring car to snuff what seemed cocaine. They could have stopped the Grover's Corners show. (Better, of course, to use them to update Mr. and Mrs. Antrobus, the wacky-dense, prehistoric-suburban bourgeoisie of Wilder's "Skin of Our Teeth.")
SO EVERYTHING IS UP TO DATE in Peterborough. It is not the Grover's Corners of Wilder's imagination, never has been, and yet the town, which has doubled to about 5,000 residents since the play was written, comes close enough to Wilder's flinty silhouette. The town leaders drew 133 people to a soul-searching "civic profile" forum at ConVal High School recently for a candid debate over what is right and wrong about their town. Some admitted that neighboring hamlets found Peterborough a bit snobby about business development. There were vows of a friendlier attitude toward outside investors who now include Japanese managers at the local ball-bearing factory and some slick magazine publishers specializing in computer information.
Fifty-five years after "Our Town" opened on Broadway, Peterborough remains separate from yet entwined with the play. It's been some years since the death of Fletcher Dole, a milk delivery man and the last of the two or three real-life denizens who some think clearly were models for the play's characters. "Wilder used to walk at great length every morning and link up with Dole," says Mr. Morey. "I can see Fletcher Dole in the front row on opening night," he adds, speaking of a production he helped put on a generation ago. "That beatific look on his face watching Howie Newsome," the milkman of "Our Town."
The play's trademark blurring of life and fiction goes forward, in a way, without Mr. Dole. Many of the actors in the decennial productions here have aged in parallel and across Wilder's assorted roles. Joyce Cohen was Emily in the previous production and plays Emily's mother in the new one, which will be performed through next Sunday. Bob Alvin, in his 27th season, is not quite retired at the age of 76, having acted, taught and directed in New York and beyond, sampling his way through "Our Town" roles but never with more immediate inspiration than in Peterborough.
"Oh, it's a beautiful play," declares Mr. Alvin. "Doc Gibbs is my favorite," he says, trying Constable Warren this time, playing him as "the town's baby sitter." In truth, the current Peterborough police blotter does little to contradict the play's pastoral tone, ranging from two calls about "a sick raccoon" on Grove Street to worried parents reporting a daughter had run away from their town.
She was a girl just about Emily Gibbs's age when Emily was allowed her regretful post-mortem visit back to Grover's Corners. Through this plot device, Wilder dramatized the ordinary beauty of life that is often overlooked by the living.
"The only thing you have to watch in 'Our Town' is you can't overdo anything -- it's all there in Wilder's writing," Mr. Alvin says, making dialogue and stage directions seem plain as the windows and storefronts on Grove Street.
Wilder imagined the play from a pastiche of local towns he wandered, not just this one. Some nearby Jaffrey residents, for example, are convinced their historic cemetery is more apropos than Peterborough's for the graveyard finale. But the Stage Manager character still settles much of the debate of precisely where "Our Town" can be found when, near the end of the play, he stands atop the cemetery hill and points into the heart of the audience. "There, quite a ways down," he says, "is Grover's Corners."
Pertinent clues of the playwright's meandering are clear enough. They are chiseled plain as tombstone dates marking the childbirth deaths that regularly stalked healthy, hopeful women like Emily. They are suggested in the candor and grace of George Kendall, a 92-year-old genuine New Englander and retired general director of the MacDowell Colony, who is careful not to overblow his acquaintance with Wilder.
He recalls that the playwright, after some hard labors one summer evening at MacDowell, carefully, hopefully read from a play in progress. He wanted to top his own Pulitzer Prize success of "Our Town," but it became clear to all in his small audience as he read that this was not the writer's best product. "The second act was a failure and Wilder looked up and he closed the manuscript and politely said to us, 'I hope you stay and have some cheese and beer.' He didn't bother with the third act. He knew," Mr. Kendall recalls with as much respect for Wilder's self-honesty in failure as for all his greater success.
The special quality about "Our Town" for Mr. Kendall is that, even being quite familiar with it, he never knows when some new actor will bring something pristine from the real town into its dark setting, a fragment from the routine life that Wilder sought to capture when he said the play was "an attempt to find a value above all price for the smallest events in our daily life."
"There was one local guy," Mr. Kendall says, remembering a past summer cast member who shocked everyone by stepping most convincingly from Peterborough into "Our Town." "He was a hopeless mess in his personal life -- not misbehavior, things just weren't working out for the poor guy. But the tenderness in the man's voice when he was onstage and called out to Emily, it was very, very moving. A local guy. The best I've seen it done," says Mr. Kendall of his town and "Our Town."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OUR TOWN (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (77%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PETERBOROUGH (NH) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (77%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CEMETERIES (78%); WRITERS (75%); FILM (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); THEATER (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; MOREY, CHARLES; WILDER, THORNTON C JOHN WILDER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



4 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2324 words

HEADLINE: Many Flavors of Florida's Panhandle

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME; PETER APPLEBOME is head of the Atlanta bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
THE license plates are mostly from Georgia, Texas, Alabama and Tennessee. The bumper stickers and T-shirts advertise ritzy Atlanta private schools, the epochal football season of the Alabama Crimson Tide and country music heartthrobs like Travis Tritt and Garth Brooks. The flawless beaches and emerald surf around Destin, Fla., may be to many Southerners what the Jersey Shore and the Hamptons are around New York, but it's probably time to retire the term "Redneck Riviera." Almost unnoticed by most non-Southerners, the heart of the Florida Panhandle has developed into one of the most inviting and affordable beach and coastal areas in the country. And from the overgrown fishing village turned condo alley at Destin to the unpretentious small-town eccentricities of Grayton Beach to the pastel dreamworld of Seaside, it's now as diverse and contradictory as the South itself.
The main reason for the appeal is not hard to figure out. The beaches are deep, clean and sugar white, and the Gulf surf is a startling blend of emerald, turquoise and aquamarine, blending finally into a deep blue about 100 yards out to sea. About 60 percent of the 24 miles of beaches around Fort Walton and Destin have been protected against any development by state or federal governments. 
 One well-traveled first-time visitor from Atlanta, taking note of the dazzling beachfront view outside her window and the $89-a-night price tag for a one-bedroom condominium, murmured, "Why go to the Caribbean, when you can come here?" Destin may not be Antigua, but it's certainly not Dogpatch with surf and sunscreen either. As inviting as the area is in the summer, the real time to come is after Labor Day, when the temperature cools a bit and the prices go from moderate to real bargains.
Once, the Panhandle Coast was sparsely developed between Pensacola and Panama City. Plenty of people wish it still were. But there are now at least five different worlds just in the 35 miles from Fort Walton Beach, the first part of the area to be developed, and Seaside, the designer-label fantasyland that's still aborning.
Fort Walton Beach and Destin have taken to calling themselves the Emerald Coast. With its flag-lined main street, busy harbor, tourist attractions like the Gulfarium -- the area's answer to Sea World -- and accommodations ranging from modest cottages and motels to pricey condominium towers, Fort Walton Beach has a feel somewhere between a medium-sized Southern town and an old-line Florida retirement and vacation community.
But the real boom area over the past decade has been Destin itself, which has grown from a modest fishing village to a major resort community. The town signs still bill Destin as the World's Luckiest Fishing Village, and Destin's 10-mile distance from the 100-foot depths of the Gulf has made it a fishing mecca for decades, from the 1,200-foot Okaloosa Pier in town to the ample fleet of fishing boats that take anglers into the Gulf. There are at least 14 charter boats and six party boats available for visitors.
But over the past 15 years, Destin has had an explosion of building that has created a row of condominiums, cottages and motels that stretch out along the beach and sprawl around the harbor. And though Destin's main drag along Route 98 isn't nearing the level of Panama City, which must hold the world record for souvenir shops and beachware emporiums per square inch, it sometimes seems to be heading there with a collection of kiddie parks, water slides, dinosaur putt-putt golf, and T-shirt shops to warm the heart of any 11-year-old. But then Destin is partly lost-in-space Margaritaville, partly Miami-like condo corridor, and partly the world of Southern tacky in which only the scenery changes from Myrtle Beach, S.C., to Branson, Mo.
What saves the place is that the beaches, fishing and food are so good you can take or leave the strip. There are plenty of first-rate restaurants like the Back Porch, an unpretentious cedar-shingled eatery with a screened porch that juts out over the Gulf where you can eat burgers, amberjack sandwiches or skewered mahi-mahi; seafood restaurants like AJ's, Harry T's and Captain Dave's on the Gulf and the harbor, or the Hatteras Cafe. There are also surprises like Louisiana Lagniappe, which has excellent Cajun food. But the quintessential Destin eating experience is to go to the marina in the late afternoon when the fishing ships come in and buy your red snapper, triggerfish or grouper -- there are more than 20 species of edible fish available each season -- as soon as it comes off the boat and take it home and cook it.
If Destin can have a comfortably dogeared Southern feel, things are a bit more esthetically correct to the east at Sandestin, which is the country-club South of Southern Living magazine. A sprawling, immaculately cared-for tennis, golf and beach resort, Sandestin has the feel of South Carolina's Hilton Head or Kiawah Island and some of the other well-manicured, upscale, Southern beachfront resorts. The Market at Sandestin offers stores like Benetton, Resortworks and Taylor Cruise International. Even the ice cream shop is a tony Icehaus. Still, like almost everything in the area, prices are not out of sight. The lowest one-bedroom condomiums go for about $1,000 a week in the summer and $550 in the fall. Hotel rooms start at $119 a day in the summer and $69 in the fall. There are bike rentals, water skiing and a full range of supervised activities for children, and the Elephant Walk Restaurant is highly recommended.
East of Sandestin on State Highway 30A, which dips down to the Gulf and then runs along it, the pretension level drops back toward zero. This is an area of weathered cedar homes on stilts, new low-rise condominiums and faux Cape Cod cottages that has the quiet, lost-in-the-ozone feel of a classic getaway. You can see old boys from Opelika with 12-packs sitting under the shade of the carport, but visitors tend to be suburbanites from such cities as Birmingham and Dallas who rent houses or condominiums by the week in areas like Santa Rosa Beach or Blue Mountain Beach. For food, you can't beat Goatfeathers, near Santa Rosa Beach, which has one of the all-time great steamed fish platters and wonderful fried pickles upstairs and a fresh fish market downstairs that will steam your shrimp for you at no extra charge.
A little farther down the coast is Grayton Beach, which is half Jimmy Buffett and half Flannery O'Connor, a totally unexpected slice of Southern eccentricity plopped down along one of the most beautiful stretches of beaches that's been designated as a state park. Grayton Beach is one of the oldest tourist spots along the beach, with a collection of homey cottages with screened porches that the same families have owned or rented each summer for decades, plus a few newer homes that are generally rented by the same people every year. But the highlight is Patrones of Grayton Beach, an artists' colony and makeshift zoo that has one of the great sno-cone stands in America and one of the strangest bed and breakfasts anywhere.
Patrones, on Highway 283 into town, is an informal jumble of 150 banana trees and a dozen or so wooden booths turned into galleries and shops that has the look of a barnyard that's gone upmarket. It has 11 galleries and shops, the Dream Cafe, the Patrones Bed and Brunch (Grayton is laid back enough that brunch seems to make more sense than breakfast), pontoon and canoe rental, and the amazing menagerie that Gene Florence, who started the whole thing, has accumulated over time. There are two peacocks and two peahens, three varieties of pheasants, plus horses, goats, various varieties of fowl and a Vietnamese pot-bellied pig. In the middle of all this is the bed and brunch, owned by B. J. Totten. The exterior isn't much, but inside the units have a sleek modern decor and the top unit has a wonderful thatched palmetto leaf ceiling on the porch. The brunch is coffee, juice and muffins at the Dream Cafe, which presents live music a few nights a week. And the best part of all might be the sno-cone stand, which offers 53 varieties of sno-cones, with the juices displayed in a gorgeous every-color-of-the rainbow array of glass decanters and the ice dispensed from an ancient sno-cone machine that serves up elegant thin slivers of snow-like ice.
The Dream Cafe is wonderful for informal eating, and Cafe Mama in what used to be the town's general store is also recommended. But the real place to eat in Grayton Beach is Criolla's, which is often cited as one of the top restaurants in Florida and deservedly so.
Started by an emigre from Louisiana, Criolla's combines the food of the Caribbean and South Louisiana with Spanish sauces and flavors.
The setting has a cool Caribbean feel, and from the paella, to the Haitian food to the creole red snapper and the amazing Key lime cheesecake, Criolla's is really something special.
If you want to splurge for one big meal (entrees range from $15.95 to $23.95), this is definitely the place.
And then for those previously impervious to cultural whiplash there's Seaside, which trades in Flannery O'Connor for Architectural Digest. Eighty acres of picket fences, widows' walks, front porches, tin roofs, graceful balconies and beachfront pavilions, Seaside plunks bits of Cape Cod, Nantucket, Charleston and Savannah in the middle of the Florida Panhandle. The result is every Atlantan's idea of the South reborn -- cooler, newer, more seamless and refined than the Yankees ever dreamed of. Forget hoop skirts. If Scarlett O'Hara came back to life, she'd run a designer iced tea and Key lime pie emporium overlooking the beach here.
Seaside is as relentlessly tasteful as anyplace on the planet, from its brick-paved, car-free streets, to the dazzling two-story skylighted gourmet grocery and delicatessen called the Modica Market, to the Arabian bazaars of shops and booths, to Bud and Alley's, the beachside restaurant, which ranks among the best in the area. For kids, there's Camp Seaside, which offers tennis, yoga, basketball and bike trips to Patrones.
For adults, there are film festivals, croquet, Swedish massage, sailing and wine tastings. Summer rentals start at $105 for the motor court, and weekly cottage rental runs from $749 to $2,860. In the fall they drop to a low of $595 and a high of $2,265.
Seaside may strike more than a few people as the beachfront version of Harry Connick Jr. -- tasteful virtuosity without soul -- but even the cynics are likely to be dazzled by it. And if it's too much, it's only a five-minute drive to the goats and sno-cones back in the real world at Patrones.
 
 
 
PLACES TO STAY, PLACES TO EAT
Accommodations
 Destin and Fort Walton Beach offer more than 10,000 rooms ranging from hotels and motels to condominiums and private cottages. For complete listings call the Emerald Coast Tourist Development Council, (800) 322-3319.
At the budget end, there are many places like the Best Rest Inn, 402 Highway 98 East, (800) 874-0470, or the Seaview Cottages, 316 Highway 98, (904) 837-6211, in Destin, or the Benchmark Inn, 573 Santa Rosa Boulevard, (800) 238-8686, or the Econo Lodge, 100 Miracle Strip Parkway, (800) 325-6343, in Fort Walton Beach where rooms are available for less than $70 a night.
At the higher end, one of the most popular places to stay in Destin is the Henderson Park Inn, (904) 837-2434, 2700 Scenic Beach Highway 98, bordering Henderson Park, which has 20 large Gulf-front suites and 18 efficiency suites. Summer rates range from $165 a night to $210.
Another good way to find a place to stay is to check with some of the large realty companies that offer hotels, houses and condominiums to suit almost any taste. Abbott Realty, (800) 336-4853 has access to most of the large hotels and condominiums in Destin and Fort Walton Beach. Dune Allen Realty, (800) 423-7433, in Santa Rosa Beach, has an excellent supply of rental properties, particularly houses, on Highway 30A along the Gulf.
The Patrones Bed and Brunch, on Route 283, Grayton Beach, Fla. 32459, can be reached at (904) 231-1606. Studio apartments are $85 a night, $75 for additional nights.
For information on accommodations and attractions in Sandestin call (800) 277-0800.
For information on accommodations in Seaside, on County Road 30A between Grayton State Park and Seagrove Beach, call (904) 231-1320.
 
Dining Out
 The Back Porch, 1740 Highway 98 East, Destin, (904) 837-2022, is a budget choice. Try the chargrilled amberjack sandwich for $4.99 or a two-course dinner for one, $10.99.
Captain Dave's on the Gulf, 3796 Highway 98 East, (904) 837-2627, Captain Dave's on the Harbor, 314A Highway 98 East, (904) 837-6357, and AJ's Seafood and Oyster House, 116 Highway 98 East, (904) 837-1913, are some of the more reliable seafood restaurants in Destin, with meals running around $25 for two.
Elephant Walk, 5500 Highway 98 East, (904) 267-4800), in Sandestin, is a sleek restaurant overlooking the Gulf. The crab cake appetizer ($8.25) is particularly good. Dinner for two about $50, without wine.
Goatfeathers, at Santa Rosa Beach on Highway 30A, (904) 267-3342, is a somewhat moderately priced seafood restaurant with a pleasant outdoor deck. Dinner for two about $60 with wine.
Criolla's, at Route 283 and Highway 30A, (904) 267-1267, may be the best restaurant in the Panhandle, with offerings including a conch fritters appetizer ($6.50) and Creole red snapper entree ($20.95). Dinner for two with wine about $70.
Bud & Alley's, on Highway 30A at Seaside, (904) 231-5900, changes its menu monthly. Staple main courses are coastal crabcakes meuniere ($19.95) and grilled lamp chops ($24.95). Dinner for two with wine about $60.
A popular hangout is Frank LeBleau's Cajun Kitchen on Highway 98 near Santa Rosa Beach, (904) 267-3724), where a full breakfast is $2.75. Dinner for two under $20.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fort Walton Beach, the first part of the area to be developed, is known, with the nearby town of Destin, as the Emerald Coast. The Gulfarium in Fort Walton Beach. Jackie Evans tops off a cone at the Icehaus in the Market, Sandestin. Students with their day's catch at the Destin Marina. A street scene in Seaside, above; students with their day's catch at the Destin Marina, right. (pg. 9)(Photographs by Manuel M. Chavez/Silver Image, for The New York Times)
 
Map of the Florida panhandle showing location of Destin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (97%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); BEACHES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); US LABOR DAY (63%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER TRAVIS TRITT (58%); TROYAL GARTH 'GARTH' BROOKS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



5 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 1, 1993

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	51	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $14.95.) A photographer and a lonely farmer's wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	20	THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $23.50.) A deadly secret, revealed by a lawyer just before he kills himself, presents problems for an 11-year-old boy.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	3	THE NIGHT MANAGER, by John le Carre. (Knopf, $24.) A Zurich hotelman's life in the world of arms dealers, dope smugglers and international terrorists.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	16	LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE, by Laura Esquivel. (Doubleday, $17.50.) Frustration, love, hope -- and recipes -- sampled by a woman on a Mexican ranch.	 	 	 	 	 5	5	9	PLEADING GUILTY, by Scott Turow. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A lawyer in pursuit of his firm's missing partner and a multimillion-dollar fund.	 	 	 	 	 6	7	6	PIGS IN HEAVEN, by Barbara Kingsolver. (HarperCollins, $22.) The stresses and strains that befall a mother and her adopted Cherokee daughter.	 	 	 	 	 7	6	6	CRUEL & UNUSUAL, by Patricia D. Cornwell. (Scribners, $21.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta investigates mysteries involving a man executed for murder.	 	 	 	 	 8	10	3	AFTER ALL THESE YEARS, by Susan Isaacs. (HarperCollins, $23.) The plight of a woman whose estranged husband is found murdered in her house.	 	 	 	 	 9	9	3	HONOR AMONG THIEVES, by Jeffrey Archer. (HarperCollins, $23.) Saddam Hussein plots to steal and destroy the Declaration of Independence.	 	 	 	 	 10	8	9	THE SCORPIO ILLUSION, by Robert Ludlum. (Bantam, $23.95.) A former naval officer tracks down a terrorist conspiracy headed by a vengeful woman.	 	 	 	 	 11	13	4	HILL TOWNS, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $22.) Americans on a holiday in Italy learn a lot about their marriage and themselves.	 	 	 	 	 12		1	SAVING GRACE, by Julie Garwood. (Pocket, $22.) The romantic problems of a 13th-century English widow.	 	 	 	 	 13	12	13	I'LL BE SEEING YOU, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A television news reporter has mystifying experiences when she covers a story.	 	 	 	 	 14	11	13	GAI-JIN, by James Clavell. (Delacorte, $27.50.) Cordial relationships and terrorism between the Japanese and foreigners in Yokohama in 1862.	 	 	 	 	 15		1	A CASE OF NEED, by Michael Crichton writing as Jeffery Hudson. (Dutton, $18.95.) A 1968 novel about the mysterious death of a surgeon's daughter on an operating table.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	51	WOMEN WHO RUN WITH THE WOLVES, by Clarissa Pinkola Estes. (Ballantine, $23.) How myths and folk tales can enable women to understand their psyches.	 	 	 	 	 2	4	46	THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, by Rush H. Limbaugh 3d. (Pocket, $22.) Anecdotes and opinions offered by the talk-show host.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	7	THE FIFTIES, by David Halberstam. (Villard, $27.50.) A journalist's social, political, economic and cultural history of the 1950's.	 	 	 	 	 4	2	6	DAYS OF GRACE, by Arthur Ashe and Arnold Rampersad. (Knopf, $24.) The memoirs of the late tennis star.	 	 	 	 	 5	5	8	REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION, by Michael Hammer and James Champy. (Harper Business, $25.) A manifesto for business innovation.	 	 	 	 	 6	6	12	EMBRACED BY THE LIGHT, by Betty J. Eadie with Curtis Taylor. (Gold Leaf Press, $14.95.) A woman's near-death experience.	 	 	 	 	 7		11	A WORLD WAITING TO BE BORN, by M. Scott Peck. (Bantam, $22.95.) A call for people to make civility part of their lives.	 	 	 	 	 8 *	7	33	CARE OF THE SOUL, by Thomas Moore. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) A psychotherapist's discussion of spirituality and everyday life.	 	 	 	 	 9	8	3	LISTENING TO PROZAC, by Peter D. Kramer. (Viking, $23.) A psychiatrist reflects on mood-changing medications and their effects on a person's self.	 	 	 	 	 10	9	8	MAMA MAKES UP HER MIND, by Bailey White. (Addison-Wesley, $17.95.) Life in a tiny Georgia town; by a first-grade teacher and radio commentator.	 	 	 	 	 11	11	9	SECRET CEREMONIES, by Deborah Laake. (Morrow, $20.) The unhappy marriages of a woman raised as a Mormon.	 	 	 	 	 12	10	24	HEALING AND THE MIND, by Bill Moyers. (Doubleday, $25.) Conversations with physicians and others about the relationship of sickness to thoughts and emotions.	 	 	 	 	 13	12	7	RACE MATTERS, by Cornel West. (Beacon, $15.) A Princeton professor assays issues affecting black Americans.	 	 	 	 	 14		11	THE REAL ANITA HILL, by David Brock. (Free Press, $24.95.) A journalist's account of the relationship between the law professor and Clarence Thomas.	 	 	 	 	 15	15	3	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Turtle Bay/Random House, $17.) A memoir of a young woman's mental illness.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1		1	AGELESS BODY, TIMELESS MIND, by Deepak Chopra. (Harmony, $22.) A physician's advice about aging.	 	 	 	 	 2	1	5	EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS, by Dean Ornish. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) Counsel about diet and nutrition.	 	 	 	 	 3	4	11	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $20.) Ways to improve communication and relationships between the sexes.	 	 	 	 	 4	2	14	A WOMAN'S WORTH, by Marianne Williamson. (Random House, $17.) Advice for women.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending July 17, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
ALMOST PERFECT, by Alice Adams. (Knopf, $23.) Social and business pressures drive emotions in this painful, funny novel about a young woman on the rise who loves a crazy man.
ANGELS & INSECTS: Two Novellas, by A. S. Byatt. (Random House, $21.) Two long novellas, and very clever ones, in which insect life is an analogue of Victorian society and literary immortality is compared to the real thing.
CAPE OF STORMS: The First Life of Adamastor, by Andre Brink. (Simon & Schuster, $16.) Grave and tragic can be expected in a fable of the first interracial contact in South Africa; Mr. Brink, a longtime opponent of his country's policies, makes it diverting and witty as well. Miraculous!
CRUELTY AND SILENCE: War, Tyranny, Uprising, and the Arab World, by Kanan Makiya. (Norton, $22.95.) The cruelty is that of the Saddam Hussein regime in the author's native Iraq; the silence, that of the Arab intellectuals who condone or assist it.
CUERVO TALES, by Robert Roper. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) Ten interlinked stories that follow a burned-out survivor of the luminous, excessive 1960's into the downer decades that followed.
DENYING THE HOLOCAUST: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory, by Deborah E. Lipstadt. (Free Press, $22.95.) A historian untangles the perverse and ingenious arguments of those who say there was no Holocaust.
DRUMS ALONG THE CONGO: On the Trail of Mokele-Mbembe, the Last Living Dinosaur, by Rory Nugent. (Houghton Mifflin, cloth, $21.95; paper, $10.95.) And was it found? Well, something was, and the trip was loads of fun.
GAME OVER: How Nintendo Zapped an American Industry, Captured Your Dollars, and Enslaved Your Children, by David Sheff. (Random House, $25.) A nuts-and-bolts history of the world-bestriding Japanese video game colossus.
A MOMENT OF WAR: A Memoir of the Spanish Civil War, by Laurie Lee. (New Press, $17.95.) An English poet and memoirist's bleak, metaphorical monument to his ragged brigade of international volunteers, in a plain, understated style that fits both the subject and the era.
PICASSO AND DORA: A Personal Memoir, by James Lord. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) Life at the heart of the post-1945 artistic enterprise: what a genius, his mistress and a shrewd memoirist did and said to and about one another.
SEPARATE ROOMS, by Pier Vittorio Tondelli. (Serpent's Tail, paper, $14.99.) An Italian novel of imperfect love and urgent grief, by a young writer who died of AIDS in 1991.
TSVETAEVA, by Viktoria Schweitzer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) The life and apocalyptic times (1892-1941) of a great Russian poet, a woman whom no revolution could contain.
UNITED STATES: Essays 1952-1992, by Gore Vidal. (Random House, $37.50.) In 40 years of essays and articles, the author expounds on sex, politics, literature, himself and other phenomena.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSPIRACY (75%); TERRORISM (73%); SMUGGLING (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); MURDER (55%); GUILTY PLEAS (52%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



6 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Government, Up Close and Populist

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis; Michael Lewis, a senior editor at The New Republic, is the author of "Liar's Poker" and other books about business.

 BODY:

NOT FOR SALE AT ANY PRICE
How We Can Save America for Our Children.
By Ross Perot.
158 pp. New York:
Hyperion. Paper, $5.95.
 
THE WISH FOR KINGS
Democracy at Bay.
By Lewis H. Lapham.
213 pp. New York:
Grove Press. $22. 
 ROSS PEROT'S new book is a neat pastiche of his recent speeches that breaks down a bit messily into two parts, a quiet part with bar graphs and pie charts and a noisy part with lots of words written in block print LIKE THIS. The first and longer section of "Not for Sale at Any Price: How We Can Save America for Our Children" consists of Mr. Perot's economic plan. The most striking thing about it is how much less brave, honest and refreshing it seems than his early pronunciamentos: it looks a lot like the budget being hammered out now on Capitol Hill. The main revenue raisers are a gas tax, an increase in the top income tax rate to 33 percent, an increase in the tax on rich recipients of Social Security, an increase in the cigarette tax and a restriction on home mortgage deductions. The main spending reductions are in military spending ($40 billion), lower interest payments ($145 billion) and an unexplained 10 percent across-the-board cut in Government services ($73 billion).
Of course, if Mr. Perot now seems unoriginal it is only because he has been so brilliantly successful; his plan hasn't changed so much as the world around it has, and for that we owe him thanks. But by most calculations he's now meant to vanish. The role of third parties "has not been to win or govern, but to agitate, educate, generate new ideas and supply the dynamic element in our political life," wrote the historian Richard Hofstadter in his newly relevant 1955 classic, "The Age of Reform." "When a third party's demands become popular enough, they are appropriated by one or both of the major parties and the third party disappears. Third parties are like bees: once they have stung, they die."
The bee has stung and yet he lives. I can think of at least two possible reasons why. The first is that perceptions have not caught up to reality, thanks in part to Mr. Perot's verbal smoke screen. His opponents may have conveniently acquired his fiscal concerns, but he has conveniently learned some of their accounting skills. Although he has no health care plan, for example, he subtracts $141 billion from his budget in the name of "health care cost containment." He claims to be able to raise $21 billion by taxing foreign corporations, a number widely ridiculed when it was trotted out during the 1992 campaign by Bill Clinton. The bar chart on page 99 shows the budget deficit under the Perot plan becoming a surplus by 1998, but it is based on outdated deficit projections. The (highly credible) Congressional Budget Office has revised its numbers, and Mr. Perot's are now off by several hundred billion dollars.
But it is also possible that Mr. Perot's appeal always had less to do with his economic plan than with other things, especially his gift for tapping into free-floating popular resentments. The parts of "Not for Sale at Any Price" that have nothing to do with the budget deficit have to do mainly with whipping up hatred toward Washington insiders. One chapter on Washington politics bears the highly misleading title "Good People, Bad System." This disguise -- "I'm not here to point fingers" -- is as thin as the forced smile Mr. Perot wears when he goes on the attack. The gist of Mr. Perot's message is that for our system to work we need only to put a scrupulous businessman in charge of it: after all, "we live in the greatest country in the history of man." In other words, Good System, Bad People.
"Between 1980 and 1991," he writes in one characteristic passage, "158 former Federal officials left office to become registered foreign agents.
"Take a look at the list below; it's like looking at a list of AWOL soldiers who turned up fighting for the enemy. This is the reason that two million high-paying factory jobs were shipped to Asia during the 1980's.
* 25 White House officials
* 65 executive agency officials
* 50 Congressional staff members
* 10 members of the House of Representatives
* 8 senators.
THIS IS ECONOMIC TREASON."
Now one can think up many reasons for the decline of American manufacturing: a low savings rate, the Harvard Business School, an ignorant work force, sheer laziness. But on any reasonable list, lobbying by Americans on behalf of foreigners is so far down that it's hardly worth mentioning. Put another way, you could purge the Federal Government of ethical problems and still not make a dent in our standard of living. Mr. Perot concedes as much with the paucity of evidence he offers to the contrary. The misconduct of Washington insiders is real enough. But perhaps the main consequence of the popular indignation it arouses is the distraction from addressing society's larger problems.
In a ringing endorsement of Mr. Perot's governing sentiment, Lewis H. Lapham, the editor of Harper's Magazine, writes in "The Wish for Kings" that "most of the country's present trouble follows from the blind arrogance of too many people in power and the apathy and lack of objection on the part of too many people out of power." That the populist tendency to personalize events that are largely impersonal has reached the fashionable New York dinner party circuit reveals just how far we've drifted toward Ross Perot's world view. About Mr. Perot himself -- or, as he is referred to, "H. Ross Perot, the Texas billionaire adopting the unlikely pose of a rural populist" -- and most everything else, Mr. Lapham is disdainful. But in the personal animus he bears Washingtonians there is a clue to Mr. Perot's appeal. A few passages will serve to convey the flavor of the whole:
"For a period of about 18 months in 1985 and 1986 I never once traveled to Washington (whether on the Metroliner or a plane) without finding myself seated next to an expectant contractor with whom I could discuss the prices paid for access and connection in the form of a campaign contribution or a legal fee. The gentlemen understood that they were on the road to court. None of them first thought of themselves as democrats or of the United States as a democracy."
And: "Over the course of the last 20 years, and across the span of an extensive acquaintance among the people who enjoy most of the country's advantages -- bond salesmen and politicians, as well as publishers, corporate vice presidents, novelists, lawyers, English professors and under secretaries of state -- I've noticed that most of the respondents fear and despise both the theory and the practice of democracy."
And: "Although I have spent the better part of 20 years in and around the New York literary bazaars, I have come across only a small number of people who can talk about any particular book at convincing length, and I don't think that I have met more than two or three writers who know much about the specific weights and measures of economics, medicine, history, law, finance, physics or human anatomy."
Every sentence is too long by a third and arched to the breaking point. ("Human anatomy"? "The specific weights and measures of economics"?) But the clash of style and content does generate a certain frisson -- think of Jeremiah as played by David Niven in black tie. Mr. Lapham co-opts his readers the same way that Mr. Perot co-opts his followers, by encouraging them to feel superior.
There is no attempt to persuade with reason. One either enjoys Lewis Lapham's many contradictions and shares Lewis Lapham's many prejudices, or one doesn't. When he writes, "From the point of view of most functionaires whom I've known in Washington, the shift to monarchy would require nothing more difficult than a change of costume," one can titter appreciatively or wonder what on earth he's talking about, since the functionaires most offensive to him exist either to get re-elected or to help others get re-elected.
THE logic at work here is the logic of snobbery: what matters is not what is said but who is saying it, and, perhaps, how many subordinate clauses he can afford to employ as hod carriers. But this is interesting. Snobbery is a technique for defending one's (presumably threatened) turf. Nothing more irritates the snob, because nothing is more threatening, than social ambition in others. And what irritates Lewis Lapham most of all is, ludicrously, the airs put on by Washington insiders. "I can admire Washington for its trees, for its monuments and some of its stately public buildings, but I have trouble with the stately inhabitants," he writes. "So few of them know how to laugh at their own pretension, and so many of them mistake themselves for statues."
So there it is: the poor bastards in Washington have for the last 20 years made their hand-over-hand climb up the drainpipe of American success only to reach the top ledge and find the editor of Harper's waiting to stomp on their fingertips and send them plummeting. I wouldn't care to push the point too far, but perhaps Lewis Lapham's odd compulsion to quash Washington pretensions, which in my view are far less robust than those in New York or Los Angeles, is the boutique version of supermarket Perot-mania. That is to say, the journalist who casts himself as an upper-class observer and the followers of the billionaire who casts himself as a common man reflect the same national anxiety, brought on by a collective collapse in status. If so, then I've got Lewis Lapham all wrong. Truly, he is a man of the people.
Or is it THE PEOPLE?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NOT FOR SALE AT ANY PRICE (BOOK); WISH FOR KINGS, THE: DEMOCRACY AT BAY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); FUEL TAX (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, MICHAEL; PEROT, ROSS; LAPHAM, LEWIS H BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



7 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2007 words

HEADLINE: A Hospital's New Site Stirs Opposition

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
UP and down the western edge of mid-Manhattan, St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center searched for a place to put its new building. It finally settled on a site on Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets, in what looked like a parking lot but turned out to be a hornet's nest.
That is because the site, directly across from the Worldwide Plaza office and apartment complex, is in Broadway's backyard, just a few steps west of the Gershwin, Circle in the Square, Ambassador and Eugene O'Neill Theaters. 
 And it is clear what the theater community does not want in its backyard: a 12-story hospital with 250 beds and a busy emergency room, plus ambulances whooping outside during performance hours. An unusual alliance of Broadway leaders is waging a forceful battle against the St. Clare's plan, even though a hospital would be permitted on the site as a matter of right under zoning rules.
"It's a real land-use tragedy," said Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the land-use committee of Community Board 5. "There are no villains. There's not necessarily a right answer."
The story of St. Clare's search for a new home -- it is now in a badly outdated jumble of buildings between 51st and 52d Streets, Ninth and 10th Avenues -- speaks of the hurdles facing any institution looking for a usable and affordable development site, even a parking lot on the far West Side, even in what ought to be a buyer's market.
It also illustrates the chance circumstances by which major real estate decisions are made. Had the city not planned to build a shaft at 10th Avenue and 48th Street to the future Water Tunnel No. 3, the hospital might have been able to buy that parcel from the Rudin family.
Had the commercial market not collapsed, the Eighth Avenue site might not have been available at all, as the developers Ian Woodner and William Zeckendorf Jr. once contemplated an office tower there, designed by Pei Cobb Freed & Partners.
As it happened, the tower was never built. Mr. Woodner died in 1990 and his estate turned the deed over to the Chase Manhattan Bank last August, in lieu of foreclosure.
Enter St. Clare's, which is under contract to buy the 35,000 square foot site from Chase for up to $17 million, depending on the closing date.
Should St. Clare's receive approval from the State Hospital Review and Planning Council by year's end, it might begin building in the second half of 1994 and finish in late 1996 or early 1997.
"It's just a perfect spot," said Richard N. Yezzo, president of the hospital. "It's affordable. There is certainly enough space. It's vacant. A hospital is as-of-right. It fronts on an avenue. It's close enough that we're not abandoning Clinton. Transportation is perfect for staff and patients."
Broadway takes a much different view.
"That site is not a good site," said Jack L. Goldstein, special assistant to the president of the Actors' Equity Association. "It's not good for the theater district for a hospital to be there and it's not good for a hospital to be there, in terms of the provision of health care."
Opponents include the three major theater owners -- the Shubert Organization, Nederlander Organization and Jujamcyn Theaters -- as well as the Theater Development Fund and the Mayor's Midtown Citizens Committee. They question the wisdom of placing a hospital in an entertainment district, insisting that the site offers far better opportunities for theater-related uses. Traffic and noise are also major concerns.
"It is our strong belief that placing a hospital on this site is no more appropriate than it would be to place it on Broadway and 45th Street," said Robert W. Callely, managing director of the Theater Development Fund, which is well known for the TKTS booth it operates in Duffy Square.
"The congestion on all three streets around the site is already at a peak," Mr. Callely said, "with 49th and 50th Streets being major crosstown bus and taxi arteries. There is already a fire house located one block away."
THE site may be in Broadway's backyard but is also literally at the front door of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, whose office is in Worldwide Plaza. The law firm does not share the theater community's concern.
"We think it would be better for the neighborhood and the community to have the hospital there than to have the parking lot," said Samuel C. Butler, the presiding partner.
Opponents do not relish the prospect of battle with a hospital that has long links to the theater community, which is committed to the treatment of AIDS and which is sponsored by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese. "I'd rather be almost anywhere else than fighting this issue," Mr. Goldstein said.
However, he said: "If we don't begin to ask questions related to the health of this industry in a very forceful fashion, they're not going to be asked. And we greatly fear that an irreplaceable cultural and economic institution will disappear."
Mr. Yezzo, too, sees the matter in life-and-death terms. "There's a primary desire to be a good neighbor," he said, "but we cannot abandon our commitment to the patients we serve. If this doesn't happen now, it will be very difficult to continue that commitment."
How did St. Clare's get to this point?
First, it determined that it would take too long and cost too much to renovate its existing buildings. To stage the construction work, about 60 percent of the hospital would have to be closed for six to eight months, Mr. Yezzo said, "which would not allow us to continue our base of operations."
Searching for a new location, Mr. Yezzo said, the hospital looked for a site of at least 35,000 square feet, zoned to permit a hospital with some 300,000 square feet of space as a matter of right. It could not be so remote as to jeopardize the safety of patients and staff. And there could be no housing on the site.
In 1991, a site survey was compiled by the Williams Real Estate Company. Although institutions do not usually reveal development sites they have rejected, St. Clare's search is detailed in an application to the state Health Department.
Among the discarded possibilities were Olympia & York's development site at Ninth Avenue and 31st Street; the Y.M.C.A.'s William Sloane House, a former 1,400-room residence hall at 34th Street and Ninth Avenue; an assemblage at Broadway and 56th Street owned by the Zeckendorfs, and the former John Jay College building on 10th Avenue, between 55th and 56th Streets.
"They were either too expensive, too large, too far west or unavailable," Mr. Yezzo said.
There was, however, a promising property on 10th Avenue, between 48th and 49th Streets: a 47,000-square-foot parking lot owned by the Rudin family. The price was tentatively set at $10.5 million.
"We would have liked to do a deal with the hospital," Lewis Rudin said. "It's a good location for that hospital, a better location than Eighth Avenue. It's less congested."
There was a hitch -- a hitch about 45 feet wide and 700 feet deep, as deep as the General Motors Building on Fifth Avenue is high.
CITY engineers identified the Rudins' lot as a good spot for a riser shaft from the third water tunnel. "They look for places that would displace the fewest businesses and homes," said Ian Michaels, a spokesman for the city's Environmental Protection Department, which is building the tunnel. "Parking lots tend to fit that description very well."
Shafts are situated every mile or so above the tunnel, to bring the water up through clusters of 48-inch pipes. In the case of the 48th Street shaft, Mr. Michaels said, construction could occur any time between 1997 and 2001. If an owner will not sell a needed property, he said, the city will condemn it.
With that, St. Clare's turned to the Eighth Avenue site, an L-shaped parking lot wrapping around St. Malachy's Roman Catholic Church and the Wally's & Joseph's restaurant.
As recently as mid-1990, the site was being considered for an office tower with anywhere from 700,000 to 1 million square feet of space. But the site, together with other properties owned by the Woodner estate, was taken back by Chase last year. In December, St. Clare's signed a purchase contract.
The new hospital, designed by Taylor Clark Architects, would be financed by a $181 million bond issue by the New York State Medical Care Facilities Finance Agency. Its ground floor would be bisected by a north-south driveway, keeping the entrance to the emergency room off the surrounding streets.
St. Clare's applied to the state in December for a "certificate of need" that would authorize the project. No hearing has been scheduled. In assessing the need for the new St. Clare's, the state review panel would look at siting "in the broad sense," said William Gormley, of the Health Department, but not whether it should be on, say, 10th Avenue as opposed to Eighth Avenue.
A lawyer for the hospital, Shelly S. Friedman of Brown & Wood, said an environmental consultant was being selected to study the traffic conditions. As for noise from ambulances, he said, "people who understand hospital policy will discover that ambulances shut off their sirens as they approach hospitals."
Community Board 5, whose district includes the Eighth Avenue site, has not yet taken a position on the project, said its chairman, Nicholas Fish. Neither has Community Board 4, immediately to the west, within whose boundaries St. Clare's now operates. But a committee of that board has identified alternative sites from Ninth to 12th Avenue.
Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan favors the granting of a certificate. "I strongly support the need to rebuild St. Clare's," she said in a letter to community leaders. Moreover, she said, "neither my office nor any agency of city government has the power to compel a change in the hospital's planned location."
However, her office has set up a working group through which the hospital and its critics may be able to address design, streetfront uses and other issues.
But that misses the point, the critics say. "Even if we had the best and most interesting architecture, and control over ambulances and doctors' parking, it still wouldn't be an appropriate use for that land," said Lee Silver, corporate relations director for the Shubert Organization, which owns the Ambassador Theater, on the same block.
The Mayor's Midtown Citizens Committee declared its opposition to the project in a March 9 meeting. Among those who took part were representatives of the New York Times Company, New York Telephone, the League of American Theaters and Producers, Park Tower Realty, Madison Square Garden, Holy Cross Roman Catholic Church, St. Luke's Lutheran Church and the Landmark and Sardi's restaurants.
"MANY years have been spent to rehabilitate and preserve the theater district and to further enhance it with theater-related uses," said Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the committee and of the Shubert Organization. "The hospital would be antithetical to this purpose and would create further disruption in an already traffic-congested area."
The theater industry's "blue sky" vision for the Eighth Avenue site, Mr. Silver said, would be a mixed residential and commercial building, with space for rehearsal studios, music studios, offices for scenic designers, or costume and wig shops.
"I'm absolutely confounded about why that site was chosen," said Paul Libin, producing director of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns the Eugene O'Neill Theater, across 49th Street from the hospital site. He said St. Clare's ought to rebuild on a site closer to the community it serves in Clinton. "That seems to be more appropriate because that's where the hospital is now," Mr. Libin said.
But St. Clare's is committed to the Eighth Avenue site. "Because of that contract, we're pledged to move forthwith," Mr. Yezzo said.
"I'm neither being stubborn nor pig-headed," he said. "I fail to see any basis for objection to a hospital in that area. Nine hundred well-paid employees are going to be working right there. How could that be bad for business?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Parking lot on Eighth Avenue at 49th Street, the planned St. Clare's Hospital site. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Map: "A Process of Elimination" shows sites considered and rejected for a new St. Clares Hospital. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ST CLAIRE'S HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTER (NYC) CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (51%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (51%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (51%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST CLAIRE'S HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTER (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; THEATER REAL ESTATE (90%); THEATER (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ZONING (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); FORECLOSURE (70%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



8 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: A Woman's Ordeal Helps Her Become A Better Pastor

BYLINE: By JULIE MILLER

 BODY:
FOR the Rev. Alice O'Donovan, being open about her sexual orientation has been like letting a genie out of a bottle. "The genie never goes back in the bottle," she said. "You can't ever take it back."
Five years ago, Ms. O'Donovan became the first openly gay person to be ordained a United Church of Christ minister in Connecticut. She paid a price for her honesty, she said, but her struggle for acceptance has deepened her spirituality and made her a more compassionate pastor. 
 And at a time when gay and lesbian rights are being debated in many mainstream churches and in the military, the 47-year-old woman, who is divorced and the mother of three children, has found acceptance among the members of a small country church, the First Congregational Church of South Windham.
"I had to learn to be very clear about the distinction between God's love and people's judgment, because people's judgment is sometimes pretty ferocious," she said as she described one of the benefits of her openness. "God's love is all-embracing. That's what makes it worth the doing."
The white clapboard church, which dates from 1902, is on a sleepy residential street just off Route 32 between Norwich and Willimantic. Sixty-two people belong to the congregation, part of the United Church of Christ, and about 40 attend Sunday services, said Ms. O'Donovan, who became pastor a year ago. She was honest about her sexual orientation with members of the church's search committee, who interviewed the candidates for pastor. But since it was not an issue for them, they decided not to make a point of telling the congregation, Ms. O'Donovan said. Since her hiring, she has been telling members one at a time about her relationship with Kathleen Crewdson, her partner of nearly 13 years.
The reactions have varied. Some people were unconcerned while others have taken longer to adjust. "Sometimes they have been polite up front and surprised and distressed afterward but have been able to work that through," Ms. O'Donovan said.
The church had been without a pastor for 13 months and Ms. O'Donovan, who worked on a dairy farm before she began her seminary studies, impressed the five-member search committee with her enthusiasm.
"Without a minister, the membership tends to fade away and not tend to business," said Helen Card, a member of the church since the 1940's and chairwoman of the committee. "She's full of energy. We heard her preach, and she's dynamic. She doesn't whisper up there."
The church sought a pastor who would be at ease not only with its members, 37 percent of whom are retired, but also with the rest of South Windham's community -- the library, the fire department and the grange. Ms. O'Donovan's relationship with another woman, and the fact that the church is conservative, did not stop the church from calling her to the pulpit.
"Being a staid New England group, maybe some do have reservations," Mrs. Card said, "but they support Alice regardless because of her personality and activity."
 
Uncertain Ordination
 As far as she is concerned, Ms. O'Donovan said, she could not have asked for a better first year in South Windham. She said that she is happier and more relaxed than she was five years ago, when her ordination was more uncertain than most because she shares a longstanding relationship with a woman rather than a man.
A second ordeal followed, during her first pastorate at a church in Vermont. Her openness about her sexual orientation brought criticism from many of the members and some stopped attending services, she said. Tensions worsened until she finally decided to leave.
Now, Ms. O'Donovan is eagerly involved in the work of leading a congregation. In her office one afternoon, she wore khaki slacks, brown sandals and the cleric's band of white beneath the collar of her light blue shirt. Her interest in rural ministry grew from her upbringing in rural areas of New York State and Massachusetts and her informal ways seem in keeping with South Windham's quiet, turn-of-the-century houses and country roads.
Being a lesbian pastor is no different from being a heterosexual pastor, Ms. O'Donovan said, except that the rejection she suffered at the Vermont church has left her wary and more afraid of being condemned or disliked. "I try not to let it put me on the defensive," she said. "That's the temptation. But coming out of that painful experience, it takes time to quit looking over my shoulder."
 
Buried Orientation
 Ms. O'Donovan grew up in the United Church of Christ but converted to Catholicism when she was in her 20's. She attended the University of Massachusetts and after her marriage became a full-time mother. For many years, her sexual orientation was buried.
In 1982 she was divorced. She and her children, who are 19, 20 and 21, live with Ms. Crewdson, a massage therapist, in Tolland. The women share a covenant union, described by Ms. O'Donovan as a commitment before God and the community of faithful that was celebrated in 1984 in a service at the Storrs Congregational Church.
The couple have known each other for 23 years. Their sexual orientation became public when the church they belonged to learned of their relationship and refused to recommend Ms. O'Donovan for a scholarship to Hartford Seminary. That "threw us out of the closet," she said. "We decided to turn that liability into an asset and to be fully open."
She completed her studies at Hartford Seminary and graduated in the spring of 1988 from Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Mass. As far as she knows, Ms. O'Donovan said, she is still the only openly gay woman to be ordained in the state. The United Church of Christ, formed in 1961 by the merger of the Evangelical and Reformed Church with Congregational Christian Churches, is the only mainstream Protestant denomination that ordains openly gay and lesbian clergy.
 
Some Positive Changes
 Although gays and lesbians are still not accepted in much of mainstream religious life, some positive changes have taken place in the five years since her ordination, Ms. O'Donovan said. "I don't feel so lonely because I may be the only one who has gone through the ordination process. There are more lesbian and gay clergy out there and we're there for each other in some important ways."
Some churches in Connecticut are taking steps toward welcoming openly homosexual members through what is called the Open and Affirming process, by which some United Church of Christ congregations becomes sensitive to gay and lesbian issues. Seven of 273 United Church of Christ congregations in Connecticut have Open and Affirming status, Ms. O'Donovan said, and about 12 more are addressing the issue in sermons, workshops and discussions.
Ms. O'Donovan draws support from lay and ordained members of the United Church Coalition for Lesbian-Gay Concerns, an organization established 10 years ago in the state to insure that lesbian, gay and bisexual Christians are able to participate fully in their churches. She tries to raise awareness of homophobia and other lay and lesbian issues through the articles she writes and the workshops she leads.
 
'Justice Preacher'
 But her sermons express equality for all. Calling herself a "justice preacher," Ms. O'Donovan reaches beyond gay and lesbian issues and exhorts her congregation to reach out to all who are different because of economic situation, skin color, accent, sex or age.
Susan Thomas is a member of the board of deacons, who are responsible for the spiritual life and worship of the church. "I didn't know anyone who was homosexual before," she said. "It has really broadened my horizons and helped me to become more aware of their issues, of how they are discriminated against and victimized. I learned more about her struggles and it made me a lot more sensitive."
Many members have turned to their new pastor during personal crises and have found her a strong support, Mrs. Thomas said.
Other members report positive changes. The Sunday school has grown, more people are attending church and there is a new organist and choir director. In addition, the church is joining with two other congregations in Franklin and Columbia to help a family from Bosnia resettle in the area.
 
'Trust Their Love and Respect'
 Asked what her congregation's reaction would be upon seeing their pastor's story in print, Ms. O'Donovan sighed and said: "I don't know. That's the risk. People may ask questions or have concerns but fundamentally I trust their love and respect."
Ms. O'Donovan said these are the best years of her life. But she said she would not be the good pastor she is today if she had not endured pain that left her with more compassion for other people and their pain. She said she cares more about being a good pastor than about being a lesbian pastor.
And as she left the church and walked down the driveway, she summed up her dreams. "I hope I can do some good for my church. There was this Jewish man who was walking along in Judea. He said, 'Repent.' We're still doing it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Alice O'Donovan at the First Congregational Church of South Windham. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CHURCH OF CHRIST

ORGANIZATION: UNITED CHURCH OF CHRIST

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOMOSEXUALITY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); WOMEN (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (71%); DAIRY FARMING (71%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JULIE; O'DONOVAN, ALICE (REV)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



9 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Your Home: Roommate Law;
Staying On If a Tenant Doesn't

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
TEN years ago, New York State enacted a "roommate law," acknowledging the rise of nontraditional living arrangements. The measure gives tenants the right to bring in a nonfamily member without first gaining the consent of the landlord. Reasons can range from financial to personal. And hundreds of such roommates moved in.
Today, a growing number of these individuals are facing a follow-up issue. Under what circumstances, they ask, may they also have the right to stay on should the tenant move out or die? 
 The issue is of critical importance in New York City because thousands of roommates moved into low-cost, rent-regulated apartments. Many were gay partners. And their concerns about succession have been made all the more significant in the AIDS crisis.
These particular roommates are also keen to press the issue because in 1989 the New York State Court of Appeals affirmed the right of a gay partner to be deemed a family member for the purposes of succession in a rent-controlled apartment.
The case, Braschi v. Stahl Associates, further prompted the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency that administers rent regulation, to broaden its definition of a "family-type" relationship for succession in any rent-regulated apartment.
But even these changes left unanswered questions concerning individual situations that did not neatly conform to either the Braschi decision or the modified regulations.
These are the ones that have since landed in court. And the growing body of law resulting from the decisions can now provide anyone who originally moved in as a roommate -- and never became a co-tenant with full tenant rights -- with a better idea of what it takes to qualify.
Warren A. Estis, who practices landlord-tenant law in New York City, noted that many roommates never became co-tenants because landlords refused them the option. "It was against their economic interests," he said. "If they did so they would have to exhaust another layer of tenant to win a vacancy increase. And if the original tenant moved out the cycle could begin all over again. Landlords would lose control."
So what should a roommate do? Robert A. Jacobs, a Manhattan lawyer specializing in landlord-tenant issues, noted that to qualify as a family member for succession purposes the roommates needed to prove that they lived in the apartment for at least two years with the tenant before the tenant's departure.
The apartment must also qualify as a primary residence for both tenant and roommate -- defined as the address given on a driving license, for voting or income tax purposes, among other criteria. A crucial element is that there must have been a nontraditional or traditional family relationship between the two during the two-year period.
Exceptions include the disabled and the elderly. In both instances the required duration of the combined living arrangements is reduced to a year.
The other exception is for married couples. A spouse has an automatic right of succession even if the marriage lasted only for the final few months of the tenant's life, added Joseph Burden, another Manhattan lawyer specializing in landlord-tenant matters.
In all other instances, even if the roommate can readily prove an intimate relationship with the tenant, any right of succession may be denied if the relationship in the apartment lasted less than two years.
Consider the 1993 case of Allerton Associates v. Shannon, which involved Barbara Thomas and her male companion, identified in the records only as "Shannon." He contended that he qualified as a family member because the two had lived as a couple in the apartment and had shared household expenses. Even so, the court denied the companion any claim to the apartment -- the tenant having moved out after the relationship fell apart -- because they had lived there together for only 10 months.
IN a related case a year earlier -- Park Holding Company v. Power -- the roommate, James Power, was also denied succession rights. The problem was that his five-year relationship with Jay Bernstein, the tenant, had ended 10 years earlier.
Though the two men had stayed on in the spacious two-bedroom apartment (with terrace) on the Upper East Side as roommates they no longer commingled their finances or showed any other sign of a familial relationship. It was not enough, said the court, that they had once been involved, or that this relationship had taken place in the apartment for more than two years. It was the most recent years that counted.
What if a tenant and a roommate can prove a personal relationship even though the tenant was married to someone else during the relationship?
In Lepar Realty Corporation v. Griffin, a 1991 case, Larry Rhodes, a roommate who lived for six years in an apartment with the tenant, Deborah Griffin, contended that they had lived as a family, even having a child together. It did not matter that Mrs. Griffin had been married at the time to another person, the court ruled, since the two clearly had a long-term, family type of relationship while occupying the apartment.
IN proving such a relationship, lawyers say, the little things count. They include such gestures as having the roommate named as executor or a beneficiary in a will, sending out joint Christmas cards or going to parties or on vacation together. Proving physical intimacy, Mr. Burden noted, is not normally required.
Moreover, without any outward signs of life as a couple, declarations of a sexual relationship may be insufficient. Early this year, in ANF Company v. Cruz, Ana Arteaga, a roommate in a one-bedroom apartment in Washington Heights, failed in her bid to retain the rent-controlled apartment even though she insisted that she and the tenant, Manuel Cruz, had lived there as "husband and wife." They could not prove they had ever entertained, combined their finances or done anything else as a couple.
Finally, Mr. Estis raises the case of the Lincoln Guild Housing Corporation v. Stuckelman as having implications concerning occupancy rights of a roommate to a co-op apartment.
The Stuckelman case revolved around whether the tenant-shareholder's granddaughter could remain in the apartment after her grandmother moved to a nursing home.
Normally a co-op board has approval powers over occupancy. Yet in the Stuckelman case, Mr. Estis said, if the shareholder's granddaughter had been able to prove she was a roommate rather than a subtenant staying beyond the lease period (the status confirmed by documentary evidence), she would have won the right to stay on in the apartment rather than being evicted by the board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL; APARTMENT HOUSES; RENT STABILIZATION CODE (NYS) RENT CONTROL (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (75%); LGBT RIGHTS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); FAMILY (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



10 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Florio's on a Bill-Signing Blitz; Whitman's Off to a Quiet Start

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
IN June, New Jersey voters picked the two major party candidates for governor and then turned their thoughts to vacations, air-conditioners and the resurgence of the Yankees.
That left Gov. Jim Florio, the incumbent Democrat, and Christine Todd Whitman, his Republican opponent, the task of keeping themselves in the public eye and expanding their base of supporters -- all without spending too much of the money they will need for their television campaigns after Labor Day. 
 The state's public financing law effectively limits each candidate to a total expenditure of $5.9 million, which will have to finance time on New York and Philadelphia television stations, the first and fourth most expensive markets in the country.
Last week Mrs. Whitman reported that she had raised $515,000, a long way from the $2 million or so she will need to get the $3.9 million in matching funds from the taxpayers. Mr. Florio already has about $1.6 million in pocket. As a result, Mrs. Whitman has been spending a considerable amount of her limited campaign time this summer at fund-raisers.
Mrs. Whitman has also been talking with small groups of voters, listening to their views and preparing for what by all accounts will be a bruising battle in the fall. But she has not devoted much time or energy to the kind of public campaign that draws crowds and generates headlines. Mr. Florio's campaign staff has suggested that she has been "hiding" from the press and the public.
Meanwhile, Mr. Florio has been taking maximum advantage of his office to obtain press coverage, traveling the state to sign bills that in nonelection years would be signed at his desk, and personally releasing reports that would normally be dropped off without fanfare in the offices of the State House press. He has also appeared at a variety of photo opportunities, like the laying of artificial reefs in the surf off Avalon and the announcement of a new business-academic partnership in Newark.
The bill signings tend to take place in communities that stand to benefit from the new laws.
On July 1, for example, the Governor attended the swearing-in of Bret Schundler, Jersey City's Republican Mayor, and signed a bill distributing $77 million from taxes levied on power-generating plants. Mr. Florio told the 1,000 people gathered for the event that Jersey City would receive $3.3 million of the total, leaving the impression that it was like a personal gift.
Neil Upmeyer, the director of the Center for the Analysis of Public Issues, a nonpartisan public interest group in Princeton, described Mrs. Whitman's summer in these terms:
"Christie has been on vacation like the rest of us, and I would suggest that that's a fundamental flaw in her campaign. She apparently has the perspective that she can rely on the good will out there for her and the ill will over taxes with regard to Florio to see her through to the fall when the campaign heats up.
"Florio is out there trying to dominate the news every day. By doing so, he is able to portray her as not having a well-thought-out platform and strategy about how she would run state government. When she is not there, it chips away at her credibility, and it could be very damaging if it continues over an extended period."
Carl Golden, Mrs. Whitman's spokesman, insists that she has been busier than her critics say. And the candidate did put in one long day on July 21, making more than a dozen campaign stops in a few counties that won considerable press coverage. But the increased campaign schedule had hardly begun when Mrs. Whitman and her family left for Idaho on July 23 for a weeklong vacation.
 
A Stop at a Gun Shop
 Mrs. Whitman has not matched the Governor's success in focusing attention on specific campaign issues, like the environment, education, housing, jobs or crime. Her best-known campaign stop was an unplanned visit in June to a gun shop while she was in Jersey City.
According to an account in The Jersey Journal, the only newspaper to cover her visit, Mrs. Whitman said that the state's ban on the sale or possession of semiautomatic assault weapons "should be cleaned up a bit" and that some weapons should not be included in the law.
She later said she was referring to .22-caliber guns used primarily for target shooting, and during a television interview called the gun ban "a lousy piece of legislation." The Florio campaign seized the opportunity to attack her on one of the very few initiatives that has won the Governor high marks with the public.
Mr. Florio went to a firing range with some state troopers who demolished watermelons with .22-caliber assault weapons for the press. And his campaign aides accused Mrs. Whitman of pandering to the National Rifle Association, which is ready to spend $1 million to defeat Mr. Florio.
Mrs. Whitman also stirred a brief but intense storm of criticism when she announced that she was hiring Larry McCarthy, the Washington-based media consultant who produced the Willie Horton campaign commercial during the 1988 Presidential campaign. The ad attacked Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachusetts, the Democratic candidate, as being soft on crime and focused on Willie Horton, a black convicted murderer who was on a weekend furlough from a Massachusetts prison when he fled and later attacked a white couple in Maryland.
Mr. McCarthy resigned the next day, but by then civil rights leaders had accused Mrs. Whitman of insensitivity.
 
Concern About the Economy
 Commenting on Mrs. Whitman's campaign to date, Mr. Golden, her spokesman, said, "We can't match the Governor's ability to travel around the state handing out checks." He added that Mrs. Whitman has consistently called upon Mr. Florio to explain his decision to push a $2.8 billion tax program through the Legislature in 1990 at a time when the state was heading into a recession.
"One thing that three recent newspaper polls show," Mr. Golden said, "is that the debate will be about the economy. The polls showed that a majority of people are concerned about the economy and the future, but when she challenges the Governor to explain why he did what he did, he says, 'Let me tell you about guns.' "
Jim Andrews, Mr. Florio's campaign manager, agreed that "bread and butter issues" like the economy and taxes will dominate the fall debate, but he said Mrs. Whitman's still unspecified intentions about how she would amend the assault weapon ban and her failure to respond to repeated challenges from the Florio campaign to reveal her own economic program demonstrate that she has no well-grounded policies.
"She hasn't a clue," Mr. Andrews said, using a phrase that appears in Florio campaign releases and is the message the campaign will be seeking to plant in the minds of voters during the fall campaign.
Mrs. Whitman has announced the formation of a "Council for Economic Recovery" and charged it with finding a strategy for rebuilding the state economy. The deadline for the report is Nov. 2, a date so late in the campaign that Florio aides have said it is a ploy to shield her from answering specific questions about her economic program until after the election. Mrs. Whitman has said she will discuss specifics being worked on by the advisers during the campaign.
 
Representative May Visit
 In the fall, in addition to television advertising, stepped-up press coverage and public debates, the campaigns will attract political stars from both major parties. But the Florio campaign would rather not see one Democrat who has indicated he may visit the state in the coming months: Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee and its Subcommitte on Oversight and Investigations.
Mr. Florio was the chairman of two subcommittees on energy and commerce in the 1980's under Mr. Dingell, and former committee aides say the two men disagreed often, principally on environmental issues, and developed an intense dislike for each other.
Mr. Dingell has announced he intends to look into the refinancing of New Jersey Turnpike bonds. Federal prosecutors are already examining allegations that bond dealers were steering business to a company owned in part by Joseph Salema, Mr. Florio's chief of staff, who resigned when news of the investigation broke.
Mr. Dingell has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is also investigating the bond transactions, to broaden its inquiry to include bond lawyers, financial advisers and consultants, and has said he may hold public hearings in New Jersey.
The Michigan Democrat's interest in the investigation has made him a potential wild card in the Governor's race. Mr. Upmeyer said that the animus between the Representative and the Governor is well known and that if Mr. Dingell were to hold hearings in the state before Election Day it could refocus public attention on the bond refinancing flap and hurt Mr. Florio's re-election chances.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christine Todd Whitman campaigning at the Journal Square PATH station in Jersey City. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (53%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MAYORS (73%); US LABOR DAY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); POWER PLANTS (65%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



11 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: Churches Face Ravages of Age And Neglect

BYLINE: By ELISABETH GINSBURG

 BODY:
THREE years ago at St. Columba's Roman Catholic Church, a fixture in Newark's South Ward for close to a century, the congregation was dismayed when water started running down the inside walls on rainy Sundays. When the leaks were investigated, the parishioners discovered that the building needed extensive roof repairs and interior restoration work.
Now, after the completion of more than $200,000 in repairs, St. Columba's is watertight once more. 
 St. Columba's is not the only historic house of worship afflicted with dripping water and falling plaster. New Jersey's churches are ailing. Many, constructed during the church-building boom that coincided with the expansion of New Jersey cities and towns in the late 19th century, are about 100 years old. The effects of aging have often been aggravated by neglect, caused by factors ranging from straitened circumstances to inexperienced leadership.
Changes in the fortunes of many congregations are taking their toll on church buildings. In cities, once-vigorous parishes have dwindled as members have died or moved away. In rural areas and suburbs, established denominations like Episcopalians, Presbyterians and Methodists have declined in membership, and demographic changes have made some present-day congregations less prosperous than their predecessors.
 
'Always Tension' Between Two Demands
 Sometimes, even when the money is there, priorities change. Church leaders may decide that the church's mission is best served by focusing on programs and outreach activities rather than building restoration.
"There is always tension between the time, money and energy required for the ministry versus the time, money and energy needed for renovation," said the Rev. Tracy Lind, rector of St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Paterson.
The problems start with aging. "For the first 50 or 60 years, churches do not need much beyond regular maintenance," said D. Scott Imhoff, projects manager for United Contractors, a construction company that specializes in church restorations.
J. Randall Cotton, director of the Philadelphia Historic Preservation Corporation, which has provided technical assistance to congregations of some landmark churches in southern New Jersey, said 100 years was "the normal lifetime" of common church building materials like slate and metal work. "The effects of pollution are also showing up now," he said.
Mr. Cotton's observations were borne out by the Rev. Daniel Danik, pastor of Sacred Heart Church, a Roman Catholic church in Bloomfield, who said Sacred Heart's 103-year-old steeple had never needed repairs before the major renovation that was finished in June.
At St. Paul's in Paterson, the oak floorboards of the parish house have taken a pounding for almost a century, and Ms. Lind said that the time has come for their restoration or replacement.
 
'Neglected for a Generation'
 Neglect worsens the problems of aging structures. "Some of these churches have been neglected for a generation or two," said A. Robert Jaeger, co-director of Partners for Sacred Places, a Philadelphia organization that helps congregations save their historic religious buildings.
Some neglect is a byproduct of congregational change. One hundred years may be a short time in the life of a massive stone building, but it is a long time in the life of a city neighborhood.
The Prospect Street Presbyterian Church in Trenton was built in 1875 and once housed the largest Presbyterian congregation in that city. "The congregation had a fruitful ministry in the neighborhood," said the Rev. Lorrie Rowland-Skinner, urban mission associate for the New Brunswick Presbytery.
But as the area's population changed, the newer residents did not join the historic congregation, and it eventually dwindled. The roof developed leaks, and the church's life, both structural and institutional, was threatened.
Demographic shifts have also affected older churches in other cities. "Virtually all the churches in downtown Camden have the same problem," Mr. Cotton said.
Neglect can also be a sin of oversight. "Very rarely do people pay attention to the outside of the church," Mr. Imhoff said. The contractor added that hairline cracks and other seemingly small problems usually go unnoticed. Eventually the water that seeps in through those cracks can turn old mortar to dust, or can rot once-sturdy trusses.
Inexperienced church leadership can also breed neglect. Committees responsible for buildings and grounds may change as new members are elected and maintenance and repair information is not passed on.
Cost-conscious councils also sometimes vote to award repair contracts to contractors who submit low bids, regardless of whether they have experience repairing historic structures. The result can be haphazard repairs.
"All mortar is not the same; all bricks are not the same," Mr. Imhoff said.
The contractor remembered working on one northern New Jersey church whose original soft mortar was later repaired with a much harder substance. The incompatible mortar did not bond properly, water seeped into the masonry and the church's congregation paid for the earlier economy with expensive restoration work.
Financing repairs to historic churches takes more than faith and bake sales. Small and medium-size congregations with big structural problems are often forced to look beyond their members for money.
Banks are of little help to religious institutions, Mr. Jaeger said, because churches are considered poor credit risks. Often, steeples are stabilized and foundations are shored up with a combination of congregational, community and state funds.
In New Jersey, restoration money is available through the New Jersey Historic Trust. Financed by a 1987 bond act, the trust provides matching grants for work on structures that have been designated or are eligible to be designated as historic places.
Harriette C. Hawkins, executive director of the trust, said that in some cases, the grants matched money already spent on restoration. The average state grant is $200,000 to $300,000, she said.
When the 235-year-old Friends Meetinghouse in Randolph needed extensive restoration, the association that owns the building sought money from several sources. Members of the association contributed to the fund-raising effort, as did the local Kiwanis Club and a private family foundation in the area. A new fire-control system was donated by a contractor.
The association also obtained a $23,000 matching grant from the New Jersey Historic Trust. To date, the cost of the painstaking restoration has been $100,000. The restoration is almost complete, although, Dr. Margaret Stenneck, president of the Meetinghouse Association, said, "Preservation goes on forever."
In recent years, St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Paterson has undergone roof repair, rewiring, heating-system repair, the rebuilding of a parapet wall and the restoration of its organ. Members of the congregation conducted what Ms. Lind described as "a minor capital campaign" to help finance work on the 94-year-old church. Additional money was secured by borrowing against the church's endowment and obtaining a grant from the Episcopal Diocese of Newark.
Further restoration is ahead. Ms. Lind and the St. Paul's vestry are working with Mr. Imhoff on plans for restoration and maintenance and are seeking additional sources of money.
 
Calling in Consultants
 Organizations like Partners for Sacred Places and the Philadelphia Historic Preservation Corporation can help congregations find sources of money, plan fund-raising campaigns and establish priorities when a restoration project threatens to become unwieldy. Some congregations with huge restoration projects use professional fund-raisers.
"There are an increasing number of good consultants who specialize in capital campaigns," said Mr. Cotton, who added that such consultants do not actually raise money, but suggest ways of augmenting the effort and provide support materials.
Some congregations are simply too financially weak to repair their debilitated structures. The Prospect Street Church in Trenton needs extensive repairs, but its congregation is too small to raise the money. The New Brunswick Presbytery will retain the old building, but the present congregation will dissolve on Aug. 1.
 
Hopes of Saving Building
 Ms. Rowland-Skinner said that officials of the Presbytery hope that the building could be saved. Within the next year, essential repairs, financed by the Presbytery, will take place, while the parent body explores ways of paying for additional work. Ms. Rowland-Skinner said the church might become a community center or perhaps even house a new congregation that would be more representative of the neighborhood's population.
The one factor crucial to the survival of historic churches is community involvement, Mr. Cotton said. "Successful congregations show that their buildings are a community asset," he said.
Both Mr. Jaeger and Mr. Cotton said that a church like St. Paul's in Paterson, with its shelter, soup kitchen and other outreach programs, touched people far beyond its congregation. According to the experts, the more people who view a church as a community asset, the more people will have an interest in its restoration.
With local chapters of the American Civil Liberties Union, a crisis ministry and the Council of Churches housed at the Prospect Street Church, the structure may be a good candidate for a new lease on life.
Given the problems and expense of restoring and maintaining old buildings, some people say it might seem more reasonable for congregations to abandon their cavernous spaces, build simpler structures and spend the money saved on outreach activities. Ms. Lind, Mr. Jaeger and Ms. Rowland-Skinner all say there is a genuine need for the big old churches, especially in the inner cities.
"Churches are the institutions that have not left the cities," Ms. Lind said. "We have to keep out buildings in good shape for our programs."
Aside from programs, historic churches also provide a measure of spiritual refreshment in the midst of a parched place. "Beauty attracts people," Ms. Lind said, "and in a place like Paterson, we need places of historic beauty and history."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scaffolding surrounded 103-year-old steeple of Sacred Heart Church in Bloomfield in photograph taken last year. Repairs were completed in June. (John Gibson Jr. for Sacred Heart Church)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HISTORY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); AGING (73%); CITIES (69%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); 

PERSON: GINSBURG, ELISABETH JOHN W GIBSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



12 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Power Struggle: Central Banks Fight The Tape

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
IT was classic Bundesbank. The independent, proud and powerful German central bank was, in the words of one French banker, "determined not to be pushed around by anybody, least of all the markets."
The Buba decision, to do only a bit to cut German interest rates, pushed the latest European currency crisis to a fever pitch just as most of the important people on the Continent were planning to begin their traditional August vacations. Some traders hoped the governments and central bankers would capitulate this weekend to avoid disturbing their holidays. 
 An ocean away, the fight seems odd. France has low inflation and a trade surplus, hardly the traditional characteristics of a country whose currency is about to be devalued. But the currency traders have decided that the French franc must be devalued against the German mark.
The traders have sold every franc they can find, and are, as they say on Wall Street, "talking their books" by telling everyone who will listen that the franc is sure to collapse.
The French and Germans fear, and some others hope, that Europe's Exchange Rate Mechanism will collapse. Having had the pound forced out last fall -- at a huge cost to the Bank of England and similar profits to currency traders -- many in Britain would love to see a similar fate befall the haughty French.
In this country, free markets tend to get more respect than Government officials, but that is not true in much of Europe, where the central bankers want to show the uppity currency speculators just who is the real boss. And the central banks rightly believe fundamentals like inflation are on their side.
Unfortunately for the central banks, the game is slanted in favor of the speculators. If the franc is devalued, their profits will be huge. But since there is no chance the franc will soar, a victory for the central banks means the speculators risk losing a lot less than they hope to win. That is one reason so many are betting against the franc.
All this seems so unnecessary. The French economy would unquestionably benefit now from lower interest rates, but to say this in Europe now brings accusations of short-term thinking. In the long run, it is said, Europe must unify its economies to compete effectively against the United States and Japan. And defending the franc now is needed to keep the European Monetary System from disintegrating. There are reasonable German domestic reasons not to lower interest rates too much, and other Europeans will have to endure the pain.
But why should they? The goal of European economic unity is a good one, but recession and Germany's botched reunification have made the Continent's economies diverge. The issue should not be whether the speculators or the central banks have more power, but what policies are needed to restore growth.
Whoever wins the currency fight, that will remain the big question for Europe's policymakers. They will need to act, partly by cutting interest rates, even if the Bundesbank doesn't want to help.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Falls 7.27 to 3,539.47," tracks Dow Jones Industrial Average, July 23-30, 1993; "Jobless Rate Rises in France ..." tracks French unemployment rate, Jan. 1991-June 1993; "... As the Economy Slumps," tracks year-over-year change in French G.D.P. quarterly, 1989-2nd qtr. 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY CENTRAL BANKS (93%); CURRENCIES (91%); DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); GERMAN MARK (73%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (55%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



13 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2869 words

HEADLINE: This Man Wants to Bury You

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
Off in this city's industrial wasteland sits an unmarked building of corrugated steel, perpetually locked. Now and then, a wide door rises, a black Chevrolet Suburban truck backs in, and a whiff of formaldehyde escapes before the entry clanks shut. Here, 15 times a day, more than 5,000 times a year, the residents of Houston come to be embalmed.
In any other business, Service Corporation International would call this site its regional processing and distribution center. Remains flow in from households and hospitals around the city, in trucks large enough for two cots. Twin walk-in coolers accommodate the center's backlog. Once embalmed -- or prepped, as they say -- the remains are delivered to the company's 15 funeral homes in the Houston area. 
 By then, the dispatch desk at the central garage, with 13 hearses and 10 limousines, has assigned a funeral driver. On his way to the car, he takes the appropriate steel nameplates from a pegboard. Possibly a cursive "Waltrip" for a morning run to that funeral home, a bold "Geo. H. Lewis & Sons" in capital letters for the afternoon, one replacing the other in a slot on a side window. On the job, he identifies himself as an employee of one home or the other.
As far as the mourners ever know, they are dealing with a local funeral home as personal, familiar and unchanging as the neighborhood church. In fact, they are dealing with the world's largest funeral home and cemetery chain by far.
Approaching $1 billion in annual sales, S.C.I. handles 1 in every 11 funerals nationally at its 662 homes in 39 states. Manhattan's venerable Frank E. Campbell and Riverside Memorial chapels are among its 35 homes in the New York area. S.C.I. also owns 62 crematories, 44 flower shops and 174 cemeteries, providing deathbed-to-grave service.
Of the nation's 21,000 homes it doesn't yet own, S.C.I. has its eye on more than 4,000. The company has dozens of homes in Canada, and the purchase of Australia's largest chain won official approval last month. Candidates for the company's next foreign invasion include Britain, France, Mexico, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
 
The Cluster Approach
 Guided by Robert L. Waltrip, its founder, chairman and chief executive, S.C.I. has quietly revolutionized funeral merchandising and production.
The company assembles groups of homes with deep local roots in demographically correct turf. It then introduces centralized purchasing, training, finance, transportation and embalming to an extent the industry has never before known. At independent funeral homes, employees and hearses usually sit idle, waiting for the call. S.C.I., clustering from 2 to 51 homes in a region, keeps staff and equipment consistently busy.
The company has also built scores of funeral homes on its cemeteries, erasing the line that long separated the funeral director's staid persuasion from the plot salesman's real estate hucksterism.
S.C.I.'s growth has brought opposition from proudly independent funeral homes and consumer groups that want the company to share the savings from its efficiencies. The company, publicly traded, achieved a pretax profit margin of 18 percent in 1992, at least half again as much as the industry average -- enough to give Mr. Waltrip $4 million in compensation.
S.C.I. has succeeded by standing the chain concept -- perfected by restaurants, retailers and hotels -- on its head. Instead of using a common name to vouch for consistency, its funeral homes keep the local names that promise distinction.
A hamburger chain has much the simpler task. The same relentless efficiencies, the same standardization that have won the chains so many hungry, hurried customers, would, if presented so baldly, offend most patrons of a funeral home. Almost nobody wants a McFuneral.
Least of all in New York City, a nation of ethnic and economic enclaves, each with its own funeral homes. Nowhere else is S.C.I.'s invisibility more visible.
Under their own names, Campbell, the leading chiefly Christian home, on Manhattan's East Side, and Riverside, the leading Jewish home, on the West Side, proclaim their identities in bold lettering on sidewalk canopies and awnings. Plaques inside preserve the memory of their founders. Those carried through Campbell's doors have included Rudolph Valentino, Frank Costello, Judy Garland, John Lennon and Malcolm Forbes. Through Riverside's, Isaac Bashevis Singer and Leonard Bernstein.
At each home, Service Corporation International stays as anonymous as its very name. The only fleeting signs of its presence are fingernail-size lapel pins, with the company's linked initials, worn by regional executives. The company's New York operations have centralized purchasing, marketing and hearse service, but not embalming. The traffic's too bad.
 
Scratching the Surface
 Most S.C.I. executives -- even the vice president who has managed a McDonald's and toured Burger U. -- resist comparisons to mass marketers. But not Mr. Waltrip. Now 62, he started out 40 years ago with a single funeral home inherited from his family in Houston.
"The hamburger business used to be solely a Mom-and-Pop hamburger stand," he said, in the slow drawl of someone who knew that the other executives gathered around to talk strategy would hear him out, even when he sounded like a country music tape played at half-speed.
"You used to sit down at the table. Mom would serve it to you. Dad's back there cooking it. Now you go to McDonald's or Burger King and everybody's in a uniform. All the cooking is computerized and all the order-taking is computerized. They're all trained to say the same things to you.
"There is nothing amazing about trying to bring that to an industry that never had that before. And 90 percent still don't have it. But we have just started to scratch the surface."
To plan acquisitions or new homes, executives consult with the team in the demographic room. There, an NEC Multisync 4FG computer monitor displays neighborhood-by-neighborhood data on incomes, shopping preferences, ethnic groups, religion and age. And, most important, actual and predicted death rates.
Once the company has targeted an area, it tries to buy the premier home. Its acquisitions tend to come with client families (known as repeat customers) who have been delivering up their members for generations.
Often, the owners of the home initiate the talks. But even when they don't, S.C.I.'s starting approach is always friendly, especially since the same clans have often owned these homes since their founding. "We try to be very, very diplomatic," said W. Blair Waltrip, the chairman's son and an executive vice president. He has a finance degree, not a funeral director's license, and the ways of a Wall Street merger baron.
The younger Waltrip's first visit to a funeral home owner can seem like a mission of compassion -- for the complications of passing the business on to children, the cost of complying with regulations and all the other work, work, work. If, by the end of a second visit, the funeral director shows no desire to have S.C.I. lighten the burdens, then Mr. Waltrip might mention that he has also called on that home's leading competitor.
Still no luck? "On the third contact we tell them we have property zoned and we are seriously considering building a funeral home," Blair Waltrip said. That might be on a cemetery that S.C.I. already owns, giving the new home a claim on everyone who has a plot. Targeting elderly plotholders has helped the company gather contracts for $1.3 billion in funeral arrangements, provoking rivals to demand tighter regulations.
"Not that we are competing with you," Blair Waltrip continued, as if addressing a funeral home owner who was being unreasonable. "But we are interested in expanding."
Sometimes, he explained, "that will motivate somebody to think more seriously about becoming affiliated with our company."
After the acquisition comes the makeover. For $25,000, S.C.I. can install new carpeting, lighting, furniture and wallpaper, buying most items in bulk from manufacturers. The former owners, or their children and assistants, are usually asked to stick around, most often as managers but sometimes merely to maintain ties to churches and clubs.
The new owners find ways to raise the average sale at least 5 percent, usually more. Major credit cards are accepted (and S.C.I. is thinking about issuing its own). The company also takes special care to freshen up the casket room, with market research and casket fashions coming into play.
"It's getting to be more and more of a science," said John J. Roefaro, S.C.I.'s marketing chief for the New York region, as the sun penetrating his office at the Campbell home glinted off his chunky gold jewelry.
Funeral homes make their biggest money on caskets, industry analysts say. They typically mark them up two-and-a-half to three times, figures that S.C.I. does not dispute.
In training sessions, with employees playing the roles of funeral directors and customers, Mr. Roefaro recommends the understated approach. "I do not want anyone to feel this is a high-pressure sales organization," he said. "We're not selling autos."
He strode into Campbell's selection room -- or, rather, rooms -- to demonstrate S.C.I.'s state of the art. "If there were no financial concerns raised, the funeral director would begin here," he said, halting at the entrance. On a wide carpeted ledge encircling the room was a procession of rare and antique caskets. Under stage-quality track lighting, not the slightest dust speck or scratch darkened their sheen.
 
The Top of the Line
 For $85,000, a family could choose a seamless, cast bronze model from 1929, with a glass dome to keep viewers from making their farewells too personal. "We search the country for these," Mr. Roefaro said.
He lingered. Then, shifting into a side room, he said that mahogany, the most popular finish for Campbell's clientele, could go as low as $6,295. "There is less wood used in the construction," he said with a shrug in the lower-cost casket's direction. "A very, very basic design. It's not as massive," he added, as a $13,700 mahogany casket nearby began to pull him away.
That extra expense brings beefy cornices, a gracefully sculpted lid and Mr. Roefaro's full respect. "Much more massive, a lot more," he said, his voice dropping several notes.
Lesser woods are crowded into a back room, on skeletal, wheeled bases. A birch casket with no railings, just notches in the side, for $5,295. Or poplar, at $2,995. With bronze hardware, however flimsy? "Probably not, probably just made to look that way," he said. "Probably steel."
In the farthest corner sat a narrow, boxy casket in a grayish blue embossed fabric. Mr. Roefaro let a sign in the coffin do the talking. "Cloth Covered Flakeboard," it said. "Non-protective. $1,295."
S.C.I. executives are discussing new ways to lure poorer families. "We want to have a Macy's type of operation, but we want to have a Wal-Mart too," Robert Waltrip said.
His son suggests that S.C.I. could build some large, new homes that would advertise their prices, perhaps as low as $1,795 complete.
Once inside the homes, customers would learn the virtues of a $4,000 funeral, the industry's average. "Pricing or advertising is basically a means to get people to come to our facility," Blair Waltrip said, adding that he is testing this approach in St. Louis. "Then by explaining the options, more times than not they buy up to our current average."
 
Industry Opposition
 Regulators say that S.C.I. has scrupulously complied with price disclosure and worker safety codes. The company has settled two antitrust cases by selling several homes. Now it is fighting a proposed Federal Trade Commission rule banning funeral homes from charging handling fees that virtually prohibit customers from buying caskets elsewhere.
S.C.I.'s growth has aroused the strongest opposition from rival chains and the independent homes that dominate the trade groups. Robert Waltrip, feeling slighted by the National Funeral Directors Association, halted company dues payments for several months last year.
Critics, at the American Association of Retired Persons and even within the industry, say that the funeral buyer should see some of S.C.I.'s savings. "Who should benefit?" said John Eirkson, executive director of the Pennsylvania Funeral Directors Association. "The stockholder or the consumer?"
Mr. Eirkson derides S.C.I. as "a multinational conglomerate," noting that state laws have kept the company from buying more than a single home in his state and others ("That's a shame."). In the next breath, however, he mentions owning a few hundred shares of S.C.I. himself.
Rival chains are raising S.C.I.'s costs, adding to its already heavy debts, by bidding up funeral home prices. Executives of the Loewen Group, based near Vancouver but the second-largest owner of homes in the United States, boast that funeral directors fearing heavy-handed interlopers often sell to them.
But S.C.I. is still more than twice Loewen's size. Robert Waltrip says that his company even owns Vancouver's prime funeral homes and cemeteries, burying the competition, or at least the competition's family, at one of its sites.
With him, nobody else's graveyard will ever have a chance. Just inside the entrance to S.C.I.'s Memorial Oaks Cemetery in Houston lies a low brick wall. In the center, a bronze plaque says "Waltrip." All his funeral arrangements are made and paid for.
 
 
 
A GUARANTEED CUSTOMER BASE
 PUBLICLY traded since 1969, Service Corporation International remains a lot like the small family businesses it so voraciously buys.
W. Blair Waltrip, an executive vice president and the 39-year-old son of the company's founder, is the very apparent heir. He grew up next to a funeral home, used the parking lot as his playground and pursued his career in the family business. "He's never done but one job since he got out of college," grinned his father, Robert, who has no plans for retiring.
Robert Waltrip's son-in-law runs an investment management unit. His mother, a director emeritus, receives all the rewards of a current director, amounting to $42,000 and 1,500 S.C.I. shares last year.
To memorialize the living and the dead, Mr. Waltrip last year opened the tax-exempt American Funeral Service Museum in Houston. The Funerals of the Famous gallery has evidence, from an S.C.I. home in Memphis, that Elvis is dead.
The several funerary settings include a 1920's embalming room, complete with shelves of colorful fluids, among them Decker Laboratories Blood Solvent in yellow and Pierce VX Cavity Chemical in orange. Behind a bronze bust of Robert Waltrip in the entrance hall, a chiseled inscription hails "his monumental and ongoing contributions to defining the funeral service industry." Admission $5, or $3 for children under 12 and adults over 54.
Mr. Waltrip, however, had to bring in an outsider a few years ago to salvage his business. To become fully integrated, S.C.I. had bought or developed funeral insurance and casket companies. Insurance proved to be unfamiliar, and casket sales floundered because few funeral directors would order from a competitor.
L. William Heiligbrot, who, as a brave Texas Commerce banker, had extended S.C.I. its first loan, became S.C.I.'s president in 1990. He unloaded the faltering businesses and dozens of small, isolated funeral homes. Even now, when Blair or Robert Waltrip trot out lofty goals for earnings growth or foreign empire-building, Mr. Heiligbrot hedges and cautions.
Mr. Heiligbrot is very much a part of the S.C.I. team, a burly, former college football player like the chairman. In pay, he has become a part of the family as well, with compensation of more than $3 million last year. The elder Waltrip received more than $4 million -- an amount pegged to the company's size and performance, he said -- and his son, $1.6 million.
Other advantages of S.C.I. family life include the Gulfstream III jet. For business trips, the jet sometimes swings by to pick up Mr. Waltrip from his 40,000-acre Colorado ranch, twice the size of Manhattan.
Since the turnaround, the S.C.I. clan has earned its keep, many analysts say. Profits since 1988 have risen nearly four-fold to $86 million last year, and to $52 million for the first half of this year.
But woe to anyone who would question how S.C.I. keeps its books. Early this year, after Ernst & Young balked at the accounting for advance sales of funeral services, S.C.I. turned to a more cooperative Coopers & Lybrand. Coopers had no comment but Mr. Waltrip did: "I still don't understand why Ernst & Young got their nose out of joint, with the exception of the fact that they were not rehired."
The accounting flap caused just a momentary pause in the advance of S.C.I. stock from a low of $8.50 in 1989 to $23.825 on Friday, just off its $24 high. Mr. Waltrip is never shy about flogging his shares, or anything else. "People that don't buy our stock just don't like money," he said, shaking his head in wonderment. "It's the greatest buy I've ever seen. People are always going to die."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert L. Waltrip in his company's mausoleum at the Memorial Oaks Cemetery in Houston. Workers at upper left are adding vaults. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Tools of the trade at American Funeral Service Museum. (Service Corporation International) (pg. 6)
 
Graph/Map/Chart: Graph -- "The Invisible Giant in Funerals," tracks Service Corporation International cemeteries and funeral homes, 1983-July 15, 1993; Map of U.S. indicating number range of Service Corporation International funeral homes, by state; Chart -- lists Service Corporation International funeral homes in the New York City area, in New Jersey and in Connecticut (Source: Company reports) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS812220 CEMETERIES & CREMATORIES (84%); NAICS812210 FUNERAL HOMES & FUNERAL SERVICES (84%); SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (84%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (72%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (72%); FRANCE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FUNERALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CEMETERIES (86%); ALDEHYDES (72%); CREMATION (71%); FLORISTS (69%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (67%); APPROVALS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: WALTRIP, ROBERT L; WALTRIP, ROBERT L (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) ROBERT L WALTRIP (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



14 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Sound Bytes;
A Man With Many Ideas for Addicting Americans

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
If Thomas J. Kalinske were a video game character, he would rack up more points than Sonic the Hedgehog. Mr. Kalinske, president and chief executive officer of Sega of America Inc. of Redwood City, Calif., a subsidiary of Sega Enterprises Ltd. of Japan, joined the toymaker Mattel as a product manager in 1973 and rose to president of the company in 1985.
When he took the control stick at Sega of America in 1990, the video game machine and software company lagged far behind Nintendo with annual sales of $125 million. This year's sales are "just under a billion," he said, and Sega's Genesis machine is outselling Nintendo's counterpart by two to one. 
 The game has only just begun: In the next year, Sega of America plans to release a "virtual reality" helmet, an interactive cable TV channel and other new technologies. This week, it is expected to introduce cartridge and CD-ROM versions of "Jurassic Park," a game based on the movie.
And don't forget the competition, notably from a newcomer, the 3DO Company, and Atari, both of which are developing advanced game systems.
Question: You've said "Jurassic Park" is just one of at least eight titles of which you expect to sell a million copies each. At $54.99 per copy, this game business isn't kids' stuff, is it?
Answer: Last year we did $450 million worldwide on one game, Sonic 2. That's more than any hit movie, more than any other entertainment property. It's a very compelling form of entertainment. We believe we have a very good shot at offering more entertainment per dollar spent, per hour spent, than movies or television. In essence we see them as our competition. You'll see, you'll want to spend more time on "Jurassic Park," the video game, than in seeing "Jurassic Park," the movie.
Q: Sega clobbered Nintendo by being first to move to 16-bit games from 8-bit games. Do you fear 3DO doing the same to you with 32-bit game machines?
A: The arcade side of our business has been doing 32-bit software for four years now, so we have a fairly extensive library of 32-bit games. We also know more about 32-bit hardware than just about anybody. I could do a 32-bit hardware system like that. [Snaps fingers.] The problem is, it's too expensive right now. The real engineering challenge is getting that cost down to where it's a mass-market product. I could do one today for $100 less than 3DO, but I'm not interested in that. I'm not interested in $200 less. It's got to be a substantially lower-priced unit.
Q: You don't think people will pay $700 for a 3DO game machine?
A: That's our view. Maybe we're wrong, but we think it's a niche product at that price. We've done a fair amount of research on it. VCRs had to cross the $300 price barrier before they became mass-market products. We're also somewhat skeptical of the technology itself. Frankly we don't think it's good enough. So I guarantee you that whatever we do, we'll be better than what they're currently doing, and it will be less money.
Q: In the meantime, you've already come out with Sega CD. You're developing Sega VR, a virtual reality device that looks really cool, and next year there will be the Sega Channel, for interactive cable TV. Aren't you afraid that at some point the kids of America . . .
A: That's my nightmare! One day they say, "That's it, no more."
Q: Could that happen?
A: Clearly they will if we don't keep re-inventing ourselves each year. Virtual reality we've shown already. There's special software for it. It's absolutely addictive. You put this helmet on, and . . .
Q: Is addiction good?
A: It is for us. Seriously, there hasn't been enough research done, but there's a fair amount of research that correlates video game playing and higher grades. Kids often get interested in computers through this door of video games. I think that's really positive.
Q: Are your own children deeply involved in playing Sega games?
A: No, they're a little young. Actually 70 percent of our Genesis players are over 12 years old. We really are not a kid business anymore; we're a teen-age and adult business. Eighty percent of our CD-ROM players are over 18. There are a lot of grown men playing CD-ROM. We think we'll sell 800,000 to a million Sega CD systems this year. If your seasonality is 80 percent of sales in November-December, our current sales would support that.
 
 
 
THOMAS J. KALINSKE
 Born: July 17, 1944; Iowa City.
Home: Atherton, Calif.
Education: B.A. economics, University of Wisconsin; M.B.A. University of Arizona.
Drives: 1991 Jaguar Vanden Plas.
Frequent-flier miles: "Millions. United tells me I'm their No. 2 frequent-flyer."
Hobbies: Tennis, skiing "and I'm trying to learn golf."
Noncomputer reading: "Truman," by David McCullough.
Ideal vacation: Taking the kids to Hawaii.
Family: Married to the actress Karen Panitz; four children, aged 1 to 8.
PC: Compaq notebook

GRAPHIC: Photo of Thomas J. Kalinske

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SEGA OF AMERICA INC SEGA OF AMERICA INC (93%); NINTENDO CO LTD (84%); SEGA ENTERPRISES LTD (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEGA OF AMERICA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (89%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (72%); VIRTUAL REALITY (68%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H; KALINSKE, THOMAS J; KALINSKE, THOMAS J (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



15 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 4; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Center-Court Star at Center Stage

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN

 BODY:
DRESSED in jeans, a black jacket and recycled shoes, Martina Navratilova floated up the escalator into the hot, white light of the television cameras, some kind of blond, casual goddess rising from the sea.
Smiling but moving as fast as one of her groundstrokes, she blistered through the tony, largely gay crowd waiting breathlessly to see her in the upper reaches of Madison Square Garden on Wednesday night. A few mumbled hellos and she was gone, tucked safely away inside one of those rooms reserved for stars like her at times like these. 
 It seemed her miniature fox terrier, K.D. (Killer Dog) had become agitated by all the lights and noise and people gathered at the Paramount for A Lesbian and Gay Tribute to Martina, a fund-raising event sponsored by the Gay Games IV and Cultural Festival, an Olympic-style sporting and cultural event that will be held around New York City next June. This was announced by Ms. Navratilova's handlers-for-the-night, identified by the I'm-Very-Serious looks they wore chiseled on their faces. Ms. Navratilova also needed a moment to recover from the crush.
THE photographers grumbled. Some people who had paid money to be there grumbled. But Marge Sherwin did not grumble. She trembled. After years of admiring Ms. Navratilova as much for her honesty about being a lesbian as for her tennis game, and after a hellish two-and-a-half-hour commute from her home on the East End of Long Island to attend this tribute, Marge Sherwin had found herself and her camera right in Ms. Navratilova's path.
Did she see her?
"Yes! Yes!"
Did she get a picture?
"Oh yes, yes, yes," Ms. Sherwin squealed. "My heart is going madly."
Initially closed-mouthed, then quietly open about her homosexuality, Martina Navratilova has grown increasingly vocal about being a lesbian and active in the gay-rights movement. She spoke at the April gay-rights rally in Washington. She joined the American Civil Liberties Union in a lawsuit against an anti-gay-rights measure in Colorado and vowed to move out of Aspen if the measure was not overturned. Her name adorns a recent fund-raising mailing from the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. She has become the gay-rights poster child of the 1990's.
"Dear Martina," reads the response card bearing her picture. "You can count on me to come to the side of gay men and lesbians who need support in this critical civil rights battle."
Ms. Sherwin said, "Because she's been so honest about her life style, she's given us all a little boost."
But being the darling of the gay-rights movement is a time-consuming diversion for a 37-year-old athlete still slugging it out in the girlish world of women's professional tennis (she is currently ranked No. 4 in the world).
"I say no a lot," she said. But "I've got to practice what I preach and this feels right."
Ms. Navratilova's leadership role is especially pleasing to lesbians fighting to become more prominent within the movement.
"We've been doing grunt work forever, stuffing envelopes and other things," said Vivian Shapiro, a co-chairwoman of the Legacy Fund, a lesbian advocacy group in New York.
"The wives of the gay-rights movement," said Lys Marigold, the other co-chairwoman.
Ms. Shapiro said: "There's never been any sense that lesbians have a strong economic base," "We want to say we're here and we want to make an impact, economically."
Ms. Navratilova's own economic impact is as big as Boris Becker's serve. Although she says her sexuality has cost her untold millions in potential endorsements, her face means big bucks in the gay community. Ms. Navratilova's presence on Wednesday helped raise more than $250,000 for Gay Games IV. A private tennis lesson with her raised $30,000 alone during a rambunctious auction.
Emerging from the secluded room without her dog but with the Olympic swimmer Bruce Hayes, City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman and Billie Jean King, a mentor, Ms. Navratilova faced the crowd. She is smaller than she seems on television, with softer features and a smile that -- surprise -- is not at all strained. She is wry and funny and apparently, a lesbian sex symbol. "She's hot," observed one woman in the crowd.
Ms. Navratilova said she liked the concept of the Gay Games, which are open to everyone, and hoped they would move society toward acceptance of homosexuals. She said, "Sports is a wonderful way to bridge differences between people." She said athletes were not as homophobic as people might think, at least not female athletes.
"I don't know what it's like in the N.F.L. or the N.H.L.," she said. "I know a hockey coach, and he says there are no gay men playing hockey."
"Please," she said, rolling her eyes. "Wake up and smell the coffee."
Laughter.
"It's like, 'Don't ask, don't tell.' They have that in the N.H.L., too."
Laughter.
"The media thinks that if you're a female athlete you're automatically gay. And if you're a male athlete, then obviously you're straight. I happen to be gay, but 90 percent of the women on tour are not."
Murmurs of assent.
Someone asked if Ms. Navratilova was seeing anyone. The room erupted in catcalls and whoops, and several women screamed out, "I'm available" and "I'm single."
"Can I answer that?" said Ms. King, laughing, but she did not answer.
"Let's just say I'm having a wonderful time in Atlanta, playing and getting to know people," Ms. Navratilova said, referring to her stint with the Atlanta Thunder of World Team Tennis.
Later Wednesday, Ms. Navratilova was praised over a $225-a-plate dinner.
"One thing I love about Martina is she demands acceptance on equal terms for all of us," Ms. King said. "Not tolerance, but acceptance. Because she is comfortable in her own skin, she helps all of us be more comfortable in ours."
When it was finally her time to speak, Ms. Navratilova said: "When I get all these accolades for being true to myself, I say, 'Who else would I be?' I can't be Chris Evert."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martina Navratilova was caught in a swirl of Fellini-esque lights, noise and people at A Lesbian and Gay Tribute to Martina. (Bob Berg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; HOMOSEXUALITY; GAY GAMES IV; TENNIS SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); TENNIS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); FESTIVALS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); DOGS (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); LITIGATION (60%); 

PERSON: NAVRATILOVA, MARTINA; MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J MARTINA NAVRATILOVA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



16 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 12; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: ENGAGEMENTS;
Michelle Stowers, Stewart Sonnenfeldt

 BODY:
Michelle Theresa Stowers, a geologist, and Stewart Hecht Sonnenfeldt, an investment banker, plan to marry in September.
Ms. Stowers, 31 and a graduate of Antioch College, works in the Falls Church, Va., office of the Science Applications International Corporation, a consulting company. She is a daughter of Dr. Joseph R. Stowers and Marcia T. R. Stowers of Reston, Va. Her parents own Sydec Inc., a consulting company in transportation economics and planning, in Reston. 
 Mr. Sonnenfeldt, 30, works for Alex. Brown & Sons, an investment bank in Baltimore. He graduated from Tufts University and received a master's degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is a son of Helmut and Marjorie Sonnenfeldt of Chevy Chase, Md. The prospective bridegroom's mother is a vice president at Fleischman-Hillard Inc., a public relations company in Washington. His father is a guest scholar on international affairs at the Brookings Institution in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAI (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SAIC INC (91%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: STOWERS, MICHELLE THERESA; SONNENFELDT, STEWART HECHT

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



17 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 12; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
From Acura, a Third-Generation Integra

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
HONDA's Acura Division has come a long way in the seven short years since it arrived on these shores as the leader in what has since become a Japanese rush to produce luxury automobiles.
First, there was the Legend sedan, followed by an elegant coupe. Then came the entry-level Integra, the Vigor sports sedan and the spectacular all-aluminum NSX sports car. And a new network of dealers was set up to distance the nameplate from Honda's reputation for cheap little cars. 
 But through it all, something else was happening. While the division was establishing itself, Honda also was moving up the scale. The Accord came and went as America's best-selling car, and Honda wound up with pricetags that were often higher than those on competing Acura models.
Acura's Integra is a case in point, and the top-of-the-line GS-R sports coupe is a prime example, with a $19,440 sticker that is thousands less than the price of a fancy Honda Prelude.
Still, Acura's products and dealers achieved an impressive reputation for quality, finishing as "best overall car line" for the past three years in the vehicle-performance study conducted by J.D. Power & Associates. The California consulting firm based its results on surveys that measured driver satisfaction after three years of ownership.
One way that Acura did that was through constant improvement, and the Integra is a good example of that, too. For 1994, the line of coupes and sedans is all new -- again. It is Integra's third generation in seven years, and that is an amazing feat in a business whose products frequently have lifespans of a decade or more.
Both four-door and hatchback can be had in three trim levels, RS, LS and GS-R, with prices starting at $14,670. The tester was a white GS-R sports coupe like those that went on sale in early July. The GS-R sedan will move into the showrooms in September, and Acura expects it to boost sales by appealing to drivers who want practicality with their zip.
There is no question that the GS-R is aimed at the sporty crowd. The molded 15-inch aluminum wheels are equipped with high-performance tires, and the car has a full complement of blackout trim. And the hatch, which yawns wide over a 13.3-cubic foot cargo area, carries a spoiler across the rear.
Up front, tiny round headlamps nestle in the soft vinyl nose, and they are of the "projector-beam" type that use internal lenses to flood the road with increased light.
The tester's swoopy curves were interrupted only when the power sunroof was opened, with the glass panel sliding back outside the car, thus allowing considerably more headroom than if it needed its own pocket within the roof.
Inside, the dark gray interior of vinyl and cloth featured comfortable buckets up front, split by a console holding the short-throw shifter for the five-speed stick -- the only transmission available in the GS-R. There is surprising legroom in the rear, and the seatbacks fold down to create more space under the hatch.
Seat controls are manual, although they include lumbar adjustments, and there are other thoughtful touches, too: a dead pedal for the driver's left foot, dual cup-holders and a toll-change bin to the left of the four-spoke steering wheel. Air-conditioning, with an environmentally friendly refrigerant, is standard on all LS and GS-R models.
The tilt wheel houses an air bag, and a second bag is mounted in the top of the dash on the passenger's side, its position leaving room for a small glove box underneath. Antilock brakes also are standard, and side-intrusion beams in the doors -- accompanied by side-impact cushions in the door panels -- pad out the safety equipment.
But it is the four-cylinder VTEC engine that makes the GS-R coupe special. In loose (not to say wobbly) translation, VTEC stands for Variable Valve Timing and Lift Electronic Control, and the system changes the way the valves work to achieve maximum torque and power throughout the engine's range of revs.
While all '94 Integras have a 1.8-liter powerplant, the GS-R's free-breathing system boosts horsepower to 170 from the lesser cars' 142. Zero-to-60 acceleration takes only 6.5 seconds, and top speed is about 140.
That's quick, but then Integra demands that. Don't blink or you're liable to miss the next generation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Acura's new Integra GS-R coupe has clean lines inside and out. Its "projection-beam" headlights and wide-open grille present something of a smiling face. (Photographs by Marshall Schuon/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT CARS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ACURA DIVISION OF HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACURA DIVISION OF HONDA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); TIRES (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); RANKINGS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); POWER FAILURES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



18 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: It's Alive;
How Clinton's Economic Strategy Ended Up Looking Like Bush's

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON'S plan for reviving the economy, embodied in his budget proposals, is squeaking through Congress. Even so, the President in one important sense has lost the battle. Like a general forced to call off a cavalry charge, he has given up his original strategy.
Instead, President Clinton is proclaiming the same hard-nosed economic propositions that George Bush and Ronald Reagan proclaimed as their guiding principle. The irony is that Mr. Clinton, like his Republican predecessors, has locked himself into an economic theory that works in the imagination but perhaps not in practice. 
 The theory, in its baldest terms, is this: A shrinking budget deficit means the Government needs to borrow less. Less Government borrowing makes more money available for the public to borrow from the limited pool of lendable funds. To lure the borrowers, lenders lower interest rates. And as the newly lent money is spent, the economy booms.
That sequence of events has never actually happened in America. Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush preached a smaller deficit and then added to it. And when the deficit did fall in the late 1980's, interest rates remained high. But in a nation obsessed with shrinking the deficit, lowering interest rates through deficit reduction has become the only acceptable economic policy. And Mr. Clinton has become an adherent.
"It is surprising to see, when you step back, how broad the consensus is on this key logic of economic policy," said John Lipsky, chief economist at Salomon Brothers.
A competing thesis briefly challenged the logic of reviving the economy mainly through deficit reduction and lower interest rates. During the election campaign, President Clinton argued that the way to faster growth would be a shot of Government spending, on public works, among other things. The new spending would even raise the deficit, but once the economy was back on track, deficit cutting would kick in.
Many prominent economists, among them several Nobel laureates, endorsed this view. But they fell into silence by March, when Congress -- particularly Congressional Republicans -- said no to the President's spending proposals.
Nowhere has deficit reduction been embraced more militantly than in the budget debate. Virtually no one in either party any longer challenges the proposition that deficit reduction will eventually be good for the economy, and now Congress appears to be producing a bill that would make a substantial dent in the deficit.
In the short run, however, the economy has been despairingly weak, expanding in the second quarter at an annual rate of only 1.6 percent, the Commerce Department reported last week.
During the Bush Administration, such reports drew scorn from Democrats. Now Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairman of the President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, says: "It takes time for the American economy to react to lower rates." And Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich adds: "I would be surprised if 1994 brought a buoyant recovery; the payoff will come after next year."
Various explanations are offered for the grip that deficit reduction has on the national imagination. Some surveys suggest that many Americans, suffering from hard times, view Government spending as wasteful and unhelpful in improving their lives. Ross Perot sounds this theme, and his solution -- slash spending, and with it the deficit -- has been influential.
Then there have been the endless Presidential promises, not least from Mr. Reagan, to cut the deficit, only to have it mushroom. "When you keep saying that you are going to cut the deficit, and you never do, that gets a little like Vietnam," said Christopher Jencks, a sociologist at Northwestern University. "Once people in office get committed to cutting the deficit, and they fail, they find that they can't back out of the struggle. They can no longer explain that maybe the deficit might not be such a problem after all."
Whatever the dynamics, the current Clinton remedy is a set of tax increases and spending cuts that would make the deficit progressively smaller than it otherwise would have been. By 1998 the deficit would be $200 billion rather than the $360 billion currently projected by the Congressional Budget Office. The President's conflict with Congress is not over this goal, only over how to reach it, with the President putting the emphasis on more taxes and the Republicans preferring more spending cuts.
The version that emerged last week gave the President much less than he had sought in energy taxes, but also less than Republicans had sought in Medicare cuts.
Whatever the outcome, lower interest rates from deficit reduction -- even if that formula works -- guarantee that the economy will regain its vigor only very gradually. That raises the possibility that slow economic growth and high unemployment are what many Americans might really prefer, without quite admitting it, even to themselves.
Evidence of this preference is not hard to find. The President himself has gone from his campaign promise of more jobs in a hurry to a more specific promise of 8.3 million new jobs in his first term. That sounds like a lot, but 8.3 million breaks down to an average of fewer than 180,000 new jobs a month. Many labor economists say at least 200,000 are needed to shrink the unemployment rate from its current 7 percent level.
Then there is inflation. Wall Street executives, often speaking for customers, argue that holding down inflation is more important than rapid job creation. Rapid inflation, in this view, disrupts stock and bond markets, and the disruption hurts the economy. The Federal Reserve pushes this case, arguing that rapid economic growth puts too much money in people's pockets. They go on buying sprees, shortages develop and prices rise.
"The ideal economic policy results in only moderate economic growth," said Henry Kaufman, a Wall Street economist.
It takes great gobs of borrowing and spending to make the economy jump vigorously enough to dispel the sense of hardship that prevails today. Low rates alone can't make that happen. Various studies have shown that people are reluctant to borrow and spend if they lack the income to repay the debt. Similarly, corporate executives frequently say that low rates are only one factor in their decision making. An appliance company, for example, won't invest $10 million to expand a factory and hire 100 workers if its executives lack confidence that there will be customers for all the extra stoves and refrigerators.
This year the weak economy and the promise of future deficit reduction have made rates fall even while the deficit remains high. And the low rates have helped the economy. Car and truck sales have risen in response to lower rates for vehicle loans, and so have sales of machinery and equipment to companies. "Only housing has not come around yet, which is a bit puzzling, given falling mortgage rates," said Alan Blinder, a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. "But we expect it to come around soon, and that will make the economy rise."
Still, Administration officials say they are not relying entirely on lower rates through deficit reduction -- recognizing, as everyone does, that the immediate result of less Government spending will be to dampen growth. Already, officials are talking about softening that blow -- perhaps by delaying some of the deficit reductions that were adopted in the first place to rescue the economy.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Deficit Medicine: No Cure, Just Relief" shows projected deficit without cuts, the Senate budget proposal and the House budget proposal. (Source: House Budget Committee); "Driving Eith the Brakes On" shows annual figures for economic indicators from 1977 t9 1993. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE; UCHITELLE, LOUIS BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



19 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Down From the Self-Esteem High

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
CAN student achievement in math, science and other academic subjects be increased if teachers boost the self-esteem of their pupils?
For years conventional wisdom has said yes: more self-confidence will help all students, but particularly girls, members of minority groups and, increasingly, gay and lesbian youth who see their sense of self diminished by an indifferent public school system. 
 But the self-esteem movement that began with such high expectations in the 1980's is running aground. Teachers in many public schools are praising student accomplishments so indiscriminately that such praise has become meaningless. The result, some education analysts warn, is that true achievement is losing out to mediocrity.
"In some instances, you accept work you shouldn't accept because there is the fear that the kids will not feel good," said Elzeria Barnes, a science teacher in middle school and high school in Westchester.
Other teachers are more blunt. "It's a crock," said a middle-school teacher in Albuquerque, N.M., who asked not to be identified. "It has lessened the appeal of hard work among students."
Some teachers have applauded students simply for turning in homework. Others accept work that even students know is lacking, which can have the opposite effect on a child's self-worth.
The push to increase self-esteem has also helped sustain the trend toward grade inflation. In one Albuquerque middle school, teachers tried to start a new academic honor society, using as the cutoff for membership a 3.5 grade-point average on a 4.0 scale. They found that two-thirds of the school's 600 students were eligible -- about half of them in special education.
So they raised the average to 3.8, but that excluded the very students -- hard workers who spent long hours studying -- the teachers wanted to acknowledge. One flabbergasted teacher who was involved in organizing the program said the grade inflation was a direct result of the school's self-esteem program.
"We all believe in self-esteem," said the teacher, who asked not to be identified because the experience so divided the teachers. "Where we disagree is how to give students self-esteem and at what price." The honor society idea was eventually scrapped.
 
Where It Works
 The idea appears to work where it is based on test results. In Detroit, four all-black public academies were established two years ago and the teachers were told that part of their mission was to bolster students' self-esteem. The staff stresses the relationship between self-confidence and exemplary achievement, between self-esteem and hard work, which city school officials say has led to stronger student performances on the Michigan Educational Assessment Program and the California Achievement Test.
The Detroit schools achieved this through more than just fuzzy feel-good praise. If a student receives a D on an essay because of grammatical and spelling errors, for instance, the teacher returns the paper, with encouragement that the student can do better. The students also are taught respect; they are expected to be quiet when another teacher or administrator enters the classroom. Expectations are an important component, says Dr. Rebie Kingston, director of the office of guidance for Detroit Public Schools.
"Expectations play a great role in self-esteem," Ms. Kingston said. And teachers must make the connection that students' self-worth rises in relation to legitimate achievement based on goals just a bit higher than their reach but attainable through hard work.
Many educators often confused praise with encouragement. "Where teachers often go astray is, the praise is not congruent with the effort the child is putting forth," said Carole Kennedy, principal at the New Haven Elementary School in Columbia, Mo. "If you have a little boy who reads his lesson and then the teacher lavishes praise upon him, that doesn't mean anything to the little boy, who says, 'Gee, that wasn't hard. Does she think I'm not smart?' "
Ernest L. Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, agrees. "You can't simply achieve self-esteem by using the label or by rewarding any effort regardless of its quality or merit," he said, adding that one without the other "frankly does acknowledge mediocrity."
Some experts say teachers, battered by public criticism and working for little money given their responsibilities, lack self-esteem themselves and are in a poor position to give students something they themselves lack. "Children are not fooled all of the time," said Lilian G. Katz, a University of Illinois professor of early childhood education, who has written on the topic of self-esteem in schools. To pretend that all children are created equal in academic, artistic or athletic ability is to undermine them later in life. Instead, Professor Katz said, "Learning to deal with setbacks and maintaining the persistence and optimism necessary for a childhood's long and gradual road to mastery are the real foundations of lasting self-esteem."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%); DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); GRADE INFLATION (89%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



20 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
A Ukrainian Could Envy Russia's Economy

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine

 BODY:
IF the economy in Russia seems wobbly and fraught with the seeds of social and political unrest, consider neighboring Ukraine.
Ukraine's fledgling currency, the coupon, has collapsed against the dollar and the ruble as the central bank's printing presses keep rolling at full speed. Progress toward privatizing industry is less likely than a year ago. Hyperinflation devours workers' salaries and capital is in full flight. Barter and corruption dominate what is left of trading, which could be further hurt by Russia's action last week on the ruble. In other words, economic reform, even of a tepid kind, is unknown in the second most populous republic of the old Soviet Union. 
 Last week, Russia's economy was traumatized when the central bank tried to quickly take old ruble notes out of circulation, only to have President Boris N. Yeltsin extend the time allowed and lighten the limit on how much could be exchanged for new notes. But such ups and downs in making the ruble convertible at least show that Russia is on a road to establishing faith among international lenders; indeed, the International Monetary Fund handed it $1.5 billion last month and the World Bank approved a $660 million loan to its oil industry.
By contrast, the only help either lending institution has been able to justify for Ukraine is a $27 million World Bank loan to help the Treasury here to get its statistics right. So retrograde is Ukraine on questions of reform that some economists reckon it resembles a little Soviet Union. Even the imagery remains secure, with statues of Lenin standing upright in the cities.
None of this would be so important if the stakes were not so high. An unstable Ukraine, with 52 million people, having inherited the world's third largest nuclear arsenal, and situated on Russia's border, worries many policy planners in the West. Somewhat belatedly, they have begun to understand that Washington's concentration on Russia and the comparative lack of attention to Ukraine have heightened paranoid feelings in Kiev.
This is especially so since Ukrainian nationalists, who instinctively distrust the Russians, say Russia has been trying to weaken what was its richest province, with the ultimate aim of reclaiming it. The welcome given to Col. Gen. Konstantin Morozov, Ukraine's Defense Minister, when he visited the Pentagon last week was intended to send a more understanding signal to Ukraine.
Even as this is happening, however, Ukrainians are showing more and more disgust with their economic plight. On the main highway near the tire factory at Bila Tserkva, an industrial city about 40 miles south of Kiev, skilled workers are reduced to hawking their company's tires in an effort to keep their families afloat. And the story of the tire factory, depleted of raw materials because it can't afford the prices that its Russian suppliers are demanding, is not unusual in a country where national output fell 16 percent last year.
"The factory can't pay us a proper wage," said Victor Tarianov, a 33-year-old engineer, as he dragged two new radial tires to the road to sell to passing drivers. "So they allow some of the workers to buy the tires cheaply at 24,000 coupons (about $8), a little less than half the state price. And we sell them out here for 45,000 coupons." Bitterly, he added: "You've heard the term social explosion? Well, the factory tries to stop a social explosion by allowing us to sell their tires. If I didn't sell the tires I wouldn't be able to buy meat or clothes for the children. But soon there will be chaos here."
In Kiev, Valentina Smiyam, a 35-year-old mother of two children who works as a superintendent for an apartment block, joined the 8 A.M. line at her local bakery, full of foreboding. "People have become like dogs," she said. "Recently I was in third position in the line to buy some sunflower oil. After the shop opened, the crowd burst into the shop and I was 33d in the line. I was about to cry and then the men started fighting in the shop. I said, I don't want this oil. I'll just go home."
Mrs. Smiyam's husband is a plumber, but she said the family would still have to live on bread and milk if not for the vegetables from her mother's small plot at a collectivized farm an hour's tram ride away.
Some politicians acknowledge that the outlook is grim indeed. "In the near future we expect a lot of factories will have to close and then we'll have a critical mass which can become an explosion," said Edward I. Gurvits, chairman of the Council of People's Deputies of Odessa. One problem is the inability of President Leonid M. Kravchuk and Prime Minister Leonid Kuchma -- who, to complicate matters, are locked in a power struggle -- to make any decisions.
 
Official Greed
 For the moment, the leaders in Kiev, most of them former Communist bosses with a new nationalist stripe, act as though the domestic woes barely exist. In fact many profit from the way things are. An estimated 25 percent of the 450 members of Parliament are managers of industrial and manufacturing enterprises. Thus, they pushed through a provision that makes it more difficult, not less, for outside investors to buy into enterprises the managers hope to acquire on the cheap.
Corruption is rife. For example, Ukraine's pharmaceutical plants are on their knees, and major cancer operations at one hospital here are being done without anesthetics. But health officials are reported to have embezzled appropriations worth millions of dollars.
The crunch may well come next winter, when Russia is to raise the price of oil to Ukraine to world standards. The Ukrainians, who depend on Russian oil, already owe Moscow more than $2 billion for subsidized oil, Western bankers say. So there is little incentive for Russia to delay the increase, especially since Ukrainian bureaucrats enriched themselves last year by selling cheap Russian oil at world prices on the world market.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers pick through food at an open-air market in Donetsk, Ukraine. The economic plight of Ukrainians has garnered little attention from Washington. (James Hill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UKRAINE; RUSSIA UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; PRIVATIZATION; PRICES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TRENDS (64%); TIRE MFG (63%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ;PERLEZ, JANE

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



21 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Conservatives Struggle For Something to Say

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ON a chilly morning here last January, leading conservatives announced "Empower America," an organization created to begin plotting the resurgence of a Republican Party that seemed in tatters.
Since then, two of the group's leaders and possible Republican Presidential candidates, William J. Bennett and Jack F. Kemp, have articulated strikingly different visions of what their party should stand for. While Mr. Bennett preaches about a crisis of values in America, Mr. Kemp argues that the party's future lies in proposals for economic growth. 
 "Bennett and Kemp are stumbling over each other in a clash of monumental egos who don't agree on fundamental tactics or principles," said Richard N. Bond, the last chairman of the Republican National Committee under President George Bush.
Such could be said for the Republican Party itself. It is hardly a testament to their own cohesiveness when Republicans proudly declare that President Clinton has been more successful than any Republican in unifying their party.
As evidence of a comeback, party leaders point to their victories since November: The elections to the Senate of Paul Coverdell in Georgia and Kay Bailey Hutchison in Texas and Richard J. Riordan's election as mayor of Los Angeles. Another positive sign is that as the White House blunders have piled up, so have donations to conservative groups.
But the Republicans' delight masks a sobering reality. They are so divided and so lacking in leadership that many Republicans fear they are in no position to advance a captivating, or even convincing, argument of why voters should turn to their party. Their profile is largely that of the Anti-Party, which specializes in filibusters such as the ultimately unsuccessful effort last week to threaten national service legislation, one of Mr. Clinton's most popular proposals during the campaign.
"With every Clinton initiative, we're against it even before he announces it," said Mayor William J. Althaus of York, Pa. "We're not going to win any elections or do anything until we get some programs that we're for."
In contrast to 1976, the last time the Republicans lost the White House, there is no Ronald Reagan to rebuild the party. Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader, has become the de facto spokesman but he is limited because he serves in Congress, where his only real power is in opposing the Democratic majorities.
And while Haley Barbour, the Republican chairman, is attractive on television, he has never served in elective office and does not command the stature to single-handedly set Republicans on a new course.
The most powerful alternative voice to Mr. Clinton, it turns out, is not a Republican, but Ross Perot, as even Mr. Kemp recognizes. Mr. Perot, he said, "seems to be the one who's more on the proposing side than the opposing side on issues like government reform and budget reform."
There is nothing like the Kemp-Roth tax reduction plan that Republicans coalesced around in 1978; the Republicans' budget alternative this year was not viewed as credible and would not have come any closer to curbing the deficit.
William E. Brock, who as the party's chairman helped rescue the Republicans in the post-Watergate period, likens the party to a political Tower of Babel; there are, he said, "a great many voices speaking in different tongues."
The voices are those of would-be Presidents (or as Mr. Bond puts it, "a bunch of unemployed Cabinet secretaries") including Mr. Kemp, a former Housing and Urban Development Secretary, and Mr. Bennett, a former Education Secretary.
Mr. Kemp dismissed Mr. Bond's criticism as "sour grapes," saying any differences he had with Mr. Bennett came from "early growing pains" in their organization.
Mr. Bennett put the party's challenge this way: "The Republican Party does not become sanctified for the Democratic Party's errors. We have a great opportunity. But what we need is a point of view. There has to be a consensus on three or four big pieces of the puzzle -- like education, welfare, crime and spending."
What should the Republicans be proposing? Senator Phil Gramm of Texas seems to want the party to stick to the anti-tax and anti-spending message of Ronald Reagan. But others, like Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. of South Carolina, say that the party must develop welfare and crime and education programs modeled after those of the states. Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator, is still waging a cultural war against abortion and homosexual rights.
While such debate may be healthy, Republicans have had little success finding common ground.
 
Repositioning the 'Party of Ideas'
 Mr. Barbour, the Republican chairman, recently announced that the party would establish a semi-independent group called the National Policy Forum to hold issue-oriented town meetings to determine how the "party of ideas" can best position itself. While the forum is intended to be independent from traditional party thinking and win over Mr. Perot's supporters, the risk is that it will only highlight the divisions.
The answers for the Republican Party may not be in survey data, either. Polls show that even those who identify themselves as Republicans are far more sharply divided than Democrats on critical issues like abortion and national health insurance.
Not all Republicans, of course, are pessimists. Some plead for patience, noting that the party is still recovering from Mr. Bush's defeat. Richard Viguerie, who runs conservative direct-mail organizations, says they are more profitable now than they have been in 12 years and he is downright enthusiastic. "Our opponent is out there self-destructing almost hourly, so it would be foolish for us to clutter up the airwaves with a different message right now," Mr. Viguerie said. "This is working beautifully."
But former Representative Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, chairman of the Conference for a Republican Majority, one of many new groups seeking to help Republicans find themselves, has little confidence in a party without a message.
Asked about the future of the Republican Party, Mr. Frenzel replied, "I've heard there used to be one."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: YORK, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); YORK, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUDGETS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, WILLIAM J; KEMP, JACK F; BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (57%); HALEY BARBOUR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



22 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Regardless of the Budget, the 103d Is No Gridlock Congress

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
TUESDAY the House stopped fighting about flood relief and passed a $3 billion measure, raised to $4.7 billion in a Senate committee Friday. Thursday House and Senate conferees broke their deadlock on how to put the Government into the student loan business. Friday Senate Republicans gave up their filibuster against the national service bill, which the House had passed Wednesday.
This legislative barrage was conducted while other sets of negotiators fought over the tax increases and spending cuts in the budget-reconciliation bill, the crucial test for the first part of this Congressional session. None of those other successes made the budget measure any easier. It will still take every bit of muscle and arm-twisting the White House and Democratic leaders can muster to pass the half-trillion-dollar deficit reduction before Congress leaves for vacation next weekend. 
 But the pace of other activity made it clear that however the budget war comes out, the 103d Congress is already a powerful legislative engine.
The student loan and national service bills are particularly significant reflections of a fast-starting Congress. While the ideas involved in each have been around for some time, neither had made major legislative progress until they were introduced this spring.
In that respect, they were quite different from two earlier victories for President Clinton and the Democrats. The first major bill passed, the family leave bill, had been vetoed twice by President George Bush. The "motor voter" bill to ease registration requirements had been vetoed once, and neither required any legislative skills beyond persuading Senate Republicans to stop talking and vote.
 
Candidate Clinton's Promise
 The national service bill, designed to encourage volunteerism and create a corps of volunteers who would get living allowances and up to $10,000 in education grants, was a promise Candidate Clinton made. Nothing else he has urged on Congress reflects the mainstream hopes of the Democratic Leadership Council forces he assembled for victory. Even so, writing a new bill and making the modest compromises necessary to win the handful of Republican votes to break a filibuster was no small accomplishment. As Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, noted somewhat ruefully Friday, the Democrats were more unified than the Republicans.
Except for those Republicans who wanted to deny President Clinton a real victory, the national service bill had no natural enemies. The student loan bill did, in the banks and the Student National Mortgage Association, or Sallie Mae. As part of the overall reconciliation bill, it gained some shelter.
But it was still a hard-fought conference. Representative William D. Ford of Michigan, the chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, wanted a complete shift to direct Government loans after four years.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, his Senate counterpart, might have preferred that result personally. But he insisted on keeping the Senate approach, which left the existing federally guaranteed bank loans in place as a fallback. Republican senators like James M. Jeffords of Vermont and Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas wanted that approach, and Mr. Kennedy persuaded the Clinton Administration that their help would be needed on other issues down the road. Some other tough issues have very uncertain futures. Well-organized opposition, dissent among supporters and a diminishing sense of urgency about abortion rights make the Freedom of Choice Act look unlikely to pass. The Senate's decision to take public financing out of the campaign finance bill has dimmed the measure's difficult future in the House. Labor's big hope, a bill banning permanent hiring of replacements for strikers, faces a certain Senate filibuster.
 
Ahead on the Calendar
 There are other projects on the horizon, such as rewriting the Occupational Safety and Health Act and the financing formulas in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, where regional and economic divisions will make it hard for the Democrats to seize the opportunity presented by the unaccustomed presence of a President disinclined to veto.
After the budget, the next tough issues are the North American Free Trade Agreement and health care. President Clinton, who has hardly dealt with Congressional Republicans at all, will find Republican backing available, and essential, on the trade measure. Health care will also need Republican help. An easier measure may be his proposal to alter the procedures on claiming political asylum. Republicans like the idea but worry that it gives immigrants too many protections. It could be the first test of Mr. Clinton's bipartisan skills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) SLM CORP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); POLITICS (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ELECTION LAW (76%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (64%); FAMILY LEAVE (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



23 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-17
 
U.S. GAINS LEBANON CEASE-FIRE 

Israel ended its seven-day assault against pro-Iranian guerrillas in Lebanon and agreed to a cease-fire that was brokered by the U.S. 1
 
Warren Christopher did himself a favor before his Mideast visit. 12
 
GERMANY BALKS AT LEADERSHIP
 
Despite its size and economic strength, Germany has disappointed and surprised those who expected it take the lead in guiding Western Europe toward unity. 1
 
Efforts are being made to save the European Monetary System. 16
 
What will Washington do about the weak French franc? 16
 
BOSNIA ACCORD SPLITS 3 FACTIONS
 
Despite an accord to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina into three federated republics, political and military leaders of the three warring factions are divided about a settlement. 14
 
In Sarajevo, residents expressed bitterness and skepticism. 14
 
President Clinton approved plans for using air strikes in Bosnia. 15
 
A SHADOW KINGMAKER IN JAPAN
 
Although Morihiro Hosokawa is about to become Japan's next prime minister, the politician whose strategy brought him to power is Ichiro Ozawa, a crafty conservative. 3
 
China's economy is matching Japan's, the C.I.A. reports. 6
 
National 20-36
 
SNAPSHOTS OF DEVASTATION
 
The swath of destruction cut by the great Midwest flood of 1993 is so wide that it is often the small images caught in a blink that best describe the rampage. 1
 
A levee broke as cresting flood waters reached St. Louis. 25
 
CATHOLICS AND BIRTH CONTROL
 
Twenty-five years after Pope Paul VI continued the Roman Catholic ban on contraceptives, his encyclical continues to polarize the American church. 1
 
CLINTON'S UPHILL BATTLE
 
News analysis: The President's struggle to achieve his goals hark back to the Presidency of Ronald Reagan; the political atmosphere he created makes Mr. Clinton look like Sisyphus on a bad day. 1
 
Budget negotiators took the weekend off; the President did not. 28
 
PARSING THE ALTMAN RULING
 
As the criminal trial of Robert A. Altman enters its final phase, lawyers are divided over the significance of a judge's decision to dismiss half the charges. 20
 
REOCCUPYING DANGER ZONES
 
The decision by a California family to rebuild where a firestorm wiped out their home reflects the quandry faced by the victims of other natural disasters that mark especially dangerous living areas. 20
 
The Navy searched a civilian's home for a video of a gay officer. 35
 
Metro 37-46
 
POTENT STRAIN OF HEROIN
 
Drug experts have long feared a resurgence of heroin. Now, evidence is accumulating that the scary potential is becoming a scary reality, with the potency of the drug at its highest levels ever. 1
 
INDIAN STORE DEFIES WEICKER
 
A store on the Paugussett Reservation is selling tax-free cigarettes in open defiance of Governor Weicker and the elders of the tribe. Now, Mr. Weicker has ordered the seizure of a truckload of cigarettes and warned that customers could be subject to arrest. 37
 
RIGHTS OF DOMESTIC PARTNERS
 
Nearly 1,000 homosexual and unmarried heterosexual couples have signed up as domestic partners since New York city began acknowledging their status in March. While most are thrilled with the results, many couples remain suspicious, and refuse to register. 37
 
3 BODIES FOUND AT EAST RIVER
 
The bodies of a woman and two children who had been taken from their home in the middle of the night and shot to death were found at the edge of the East River yesterday in an isolated waterfront area near the Brooklyn Navy Yard. 37
 
More city neighborhoods await the results of water tests. 39
 
Israel placed its representative at the U.N. under extra security.39
 
Where to try Joel Rifkin, accused of murders in 9 counties. 41
 
Obituaries 44
 
Baudouin I, King of Belgium.
 
Paul B. Henry, Republican Congressman from Michigan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); JAPAN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); JAPAN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); CHINA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); RELIGION (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); CONTRACEPTION (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%); HEROIN (63%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



24 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Reagan Curse on Clinton

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
It isn't all Bill Clinton's fault. Not by a long way.
The President's protracted, messy effort to push his economic program through Congress, still hung up short of success this weekend, is taken in some Washington circles and by many rank-and-file voters as evidence of ineptitude if not incompetence. There is no doubt that the White House has made its share of mistakes in this campaign, on which the very definition of the Clinton Administration may turn. 
 Even as Congressional budget negotiators took the weekend off, the President and his staff continued today to campaign for his economic program. [Page 28.]
But to understand why it has been so hard for Mr. Clinton to achieve his goals, and why he will achieve only some of them even if Congress, as expected, gives grudging and narrow approval to some kind of budget package next week, one has to hark back to the Presidency of Ronald Reagan and the political atmosphere he created. It is still with us, and it makes Mr. Clinton look like Sisyphus on a bad day.
 
Failures of Government
 Playing on the failures of American Government in the 1960's and 1970's, and the difficulties those failures had created or proved unable to correct, Mr. Reagan successfully argued that government itself was the problem. Most Federal programs were bad; taxes were bad; spending was bad.
That notion -- a departure from the thinking of other recent American conservatives, like Richard M. Nixon, and many conservatives in Europe, where taxes are higher -- continues to exert a hold over a broad section of the American electorate.
As a result, politicians are terrified to wear the awful label, "tax and spend," however much their constituents need government money for health care or roads.
"We have reached a point when people sense that the time has arrived for another period of at least moderate government activism," said a moderate Republican senator. "There are unmet needs. People want problems solved. But they remain deeply skeptical about the capacity of any government to do the job, and they want the deficit reduced, too. Now."
In a sense, what Mr. Clinton and the negotiators on Capitol Hill have been trying to do is work their way out of that dilemma. They have been trying to patch together majority support for enough new taxes to give the public enough deficit reduction without cutting existing social services too much, and set up a few pilot programs like the proposed National Service Corps.
 
Electoral Weakness
 The President has tried to counter "tax and spend" with "fairness" and with a more concerted effort to explain himself. It is not working very well, so the Administration finds itself in the unenviable position of a company with an aging product line and inadequate cash flow to finance research and development. In fact, the agenda the President is undertaking is an enormous one, probably the most ambitious since that of Lyndon B. Johnson.
Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, a conservative Democrat who gives Mr. Clinton mixed reviews on both ideological and operational grounds, nevertheless asserts that "he is aiming higher than anyone we've had in the White House in decades."
He is doing so, furthermore, from a position of basic electoral weakness. Whereas Johnson won by a landslide in 1964 and benefited from the sense of national crisis created by the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Mr. Clinton fell far short of a majority of the popular vote last November. That has hurt him.
 
The Treatment
 So has the very fact that the Democrats have been out of the White House since 1980 and have held it for only four years since 1968. The Clinton Administration, a member of the Cabinet said recently, has "suffered greatly from a lack of experienced technicians who can get things done on the Hill and elsewhere."
One of the Texans who came to Washington with Johnson pointed the other day to two other differences that he deemed important.
For one thing, he said, Johnson in the early, productive years of his Presidency had a kind of gravitas, a sense of political weight, that Mr. Clinton has found hard to project. Like many other Democrats, the former Johnson aide complained about Mr. Clinton's prolixity, his difficulty in focusing for long on any one issue and his seeming inability to find good nominees for crucial jobs without stumbling first.
The Texan also recalled that Johnson knew Congress as well as anyone in his generation, having served as Senate majority leader, and worked skillfully and successfully with both Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill. Trading, bluffing, demanding, cajoling, Johnson applied what came to be known as The Treatment. It was hard to resist.
But those techniques may no longer apply. Party discipline on Capitol Hill has weakened severely in the last three decades; even the Republican opposition in the present Senate, which has been remarkably unified, has failed to sustain some filibuster efforts.
It is the special-interest groups, the talk shows and the fund-raisers who exert the most powerful leverage over senators and representatives today, not the party apparatus or the Congressional leadership or the White House or even the President. Cable television and fax machines and phone banks have changed almost everything in Congress.
 
Distractions on Economy
 When Mr. Clinton came back from the summit meeting in Tokyo, where he had done well, he hoped he could segue directly into his domestic economic package. Foreign policy success and domestic economic strength, he has long argued, go hand in hand. But he was distracted almost at once by the need to settle the question of homosexuals in the military, by the death of his friend and staff member, Vincent W. Foster Jr., and by the threatened indictment of Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
The President is desperate to get the budget package passed, with a credible amount of deficit reduction built in. Failure would be ruinous for him and for his party.
But once that is done, how long it has taken him to do it and how many votes he wins by will not matter so much. What will count in the Congressional elections next year and in the Presidential race in 1996 is whether this and subsequent economic measures create jobs and speed the recovery.
That, after all, is what Mr. Clinton spent 1992 insisting he could and would do and George Bush could not or would not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; APPLE, R W JR RONALD REAGAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



25 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Citing Chains, Eeyore's Books Calls It Quits

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
Eeyore's, a mainstay in the world of children's books in Manhattan, has closed its doors, a victim of difficult economic times and changing fashions in retail bookselling, its owner said yesterday.
Joel Fram, who founded Eeyore's Books for Children two decades ago, said he closed one of his stores, on Broadway near West 79th Street, on Tuesday, after having closed the other branch, on East 83d Street, in June. 
 For longtime customers, whose children visited the stores for readings by authors or to browse on their way home from school, the closings marked the end of an era. For Mr. Fram, it marked the end of a long career as a bookseller in New York City.
"I think I really did create something that really contributed to the neighborhood," Mr. Fram said. "A lot of kids would come and treat it as a way station on the way home from school. And a lot of people treated it as a resource for children's books. They practically treated it as a sort of public library."
 
Competition From Chains
 The stores -- named for the donkey character in "Winnie the Pooh" -- stocked more than 20,000 titles by hundreds of children's authors, from Maurice Sendak to Judy Blume. At one time, the owner said, Eeyore's was the only bookstore in Manhattan geared specifically to children.
Mr. Fram said, however, that in recent years, an economic slump, coupled with the proliferation of bookstore chains, has made it increasingly difficult for smaller booksellers to survive. He said the opening in April of a Barnes & Noble "superstore" -- a block-long store offering 225,000 books, including a large children's section -- on Broadway three blocks from his Upper West Side store was the final straw.
"The big chains, particularly Barnes & Noble, are opening up massive stores and sending shockwaves through the business," Mr. Fram said. "It's not just me and it's not just New York; its all over the country."
The closings put the 18 employees of the two stores out of work. Mr. Fram, who lives in Pennsylvania, said he hoped to find a buyer for the stores' name and inventories, and that he was pursuing a number of "different projects" for himself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EEYORE'S BOOKS FOR CHILDREN (NYC STORE)

ORGANIZATION: EEYORE'S BOOKS FOR CHILDREN (NYC STORE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) BOOKSTORES (91%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (91%); WRITERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); LIBRARIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); 

PERSON: MARKS, PETER MAURICE BERNARD SENDAK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



26 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Currency Crisis Presents U.S. With a Hard Choice

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
While a collapse of the European Monetary System would probably give American exports a boost, Europe's latest currency crisis presents the Clinton Administration with a difficult decision on whether to intervene to help prop up the French franc, monetary experts said today.
A breakdown of the so-called exchange rate mechanism could also eventually unleash inflationary pressures throughout Europe. And the United States hardly wants to be seen as benefiting from or abetting the troubles of its allies. 
 If the monetary system does break up, France and half a dozen other European Community nations would be free to stimulate their economies. Keeping their currencies within the bounds imposed by the system has required them to keep their interest rates at levels that have restricted economic growth, contributing to Western Europe's lingering recession, said John Williamson, a former International Monetary Fund official who is now a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics.
Freed from that system, European nations would be free to lower the rates.
 
Benefit for the U.S.
 The resulting economic growth would allow American companies to sell more goods in Europe, he said, adding, "In the short run, there is no doubt that European policies will be more expansionary if it falls apart, and that will be helpful to the U.S."
Olin L. Wethington, who was Assistant Treasury Secretary for International Affairs in the Bush Administration, also emphasized that the monetary system effectively limits American exports.
"The real cost to the United States in the present situation is the failure of the European economies to grow, to recover," he said.
Robert A. White, a senior vice president and foreign exchange trading manager at Standard Chartered Bank in Los Angeles, said that foreign companies might also be more willing to invest and trade more in the United States if the demise of the monetary system made the European market appear less stable.
But Mr. Williamson cautioned that to avoid offending the Europeans, the United States could not afford to be perceived as encouraging the currency turmoil there. A collapse of the monetary system could reawaken inflation in Europe, gradually undermining economies there and eventually hurting the prospects for American exports.
 
No Obvious Intervention
 Mr. White said that he had seen no obvious sign of market intervention in the crisis this week by the Federal Reserve, but he noted that the agency might be discreetly trading currencies using money supplied by European central banks.
European countries quietly encouraged the United States to intervene last fall to help preserve the monetary system, but the Bush Administration refused to do so. The British pound subsequently pulled out of the monetary system and London cut interest rates.
So far, there has been no official public request that the Clinton Administration intervene to prop up the French franc -- though experts say such requests are usually made discreetly through private channels -- and the Administration has been cautious in its statements.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said on Thursday night that the United States was watching the European currency markets closely but felt that they were a European concern. The Federal Reserve declined today to comment on the issue.
Another factor the Administration must weigh in deciding whether or not to buy francs to support its current level on currency markets is whether such action can be effective at anything less than a prohibitive cost.
Mr. Wethington said that the decision not to give assistance last year was based on an assessment that the United States could not have made a difference.
"There's simply too much currency sloshing around in international markets to have an effect, absent changes in domestic monetary or fiscal policies," said Mr. Wethington, who is now a partner at Steptoe and Johnson, an international law firm with a large Washington office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (53%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (53%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (53%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; FRANCE UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



27 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Reluctant Giant: Germany Balks at Leading Europeans to Unity

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, July 31

 BODY:
Germany's shoulders, it turns out, are not as broad as either the Germans or their neighbors thought they were.
Ever since the unification of Germany in 1990, supporters of European unity, Germans most of all, have been telling themselves that Germany would lead the way. Built on the idea of Franco-German reconciliation, this unified Europe would forge a strategic and economic partnership with the United States, with the powerful German economy pulling the rest of Europe to prosperity. 
 There were fears, of course, fears that 78 million Germans would dominate their neighbors economically, monopolize trade with the formerly Communist countries to the east and throw their weight around in ways uncomfortably reminiscent of the past.
But if Germany dominates Europe today, it is by its unexpected weaknesses rather than by its strength.
This weekend, the European Monetary System that was to lead to a common European currency by the end of the decade was in turmoil because Germany's central bank, the Bundesbank, acted in accordance with its national charter instead of meeting European expectations. [Ministers of the European Community gathered in an emergency session in Brussels to seek a way out. Page 16.]
 
Preserving Mark's 'Stability'
 The crisis flared on Thursday after the Bundesbank adhered to the letter of its charter, which requires it to preserve the "stability" of the German mark against inflation. The charter does not provide any room for tolerating a little bit of inflation to help the French franc, the British pound or any other European currency. The French had hoped the Bundesbank would agree to lower German interest rates, which would indirectly bolster the franc.
Instead, the bank declined to reduce its key short-term interest rate, and plunged the franc into a crisis. The Bundesbank's president, 67-year-old Dr. Helmut Schlesinger, described the situation as a "dilemma."
Politically, Chancellor Helmut Kohl and his Government regard the alliance with France as the political core of European unity. But the Bundesbank, which is legally independent of the Government, was, like many other European national institutions, being called upon to bear more weight than it was ever designed to carry.
The crucial overload came from the Treaty on European Union that was agreed to by the leaders of the 12 member nations of the European Community in the Dutch city of Maastricht in December 1991. The treaty laid down a path to a common European currency as early as 1997, and committed the community to the goal of a common foreign policy as well.
 
A Surprising Hesitancy
 Second thoughts have since abounded all over Europe, but Germany has been the main scapegoat for what has gone wrong. And for all the fears of Germany throwing its weight around, it has been the hesitancy and reluctance of Mr. Kohl and his Government to assert leadership that has most often surprised their European and American allies.
The great sobering experience for the Germans was the unexpectedly huge social and economic cost of absorbing East Germany, which threw the German economy into an inflationary cycle and led the Bundesbank to impose the high interest rates that have been choking the rest of Europe for two years.
The high interest rates make it more costly to borrow, and thus reduce spending, which helps contain inflation. But those high rates also make the mark strong against other currencies, because they attract investors.
And that creates problems for the rest of the community, because many currencies are linked through the European Monetary System and its exchange rate mechanism. The mechanism requires the nine currencies to fluctuate within narrow ranges, and when the mark is kept strong by high German interest rates, other nations are required to keep their rates higher than they would like in order to keep their currencies within bounds.
Germany's political system was not designed to make crucial strategic or military decisions, which were left to the United States and the NATO alliance, and it has not been able to solve this economic riddle, or some political ones.
 
Prometheus Bound
 After unification, Germany had the biggest standing army in Western Europe, but -- far from being a military colossus -- it seemed more like Prometheus bound. Germany declared itself unable to send troops to the Persian Gulf, to the war-torn Balkans, or anywhere else beyond its borders because the Constitution of 1949 barred it from any military action abroad.
Germany's one attempt to throw its political weight around, just after the Maastricht treaty was signed, backfired disastrously. Believing that recognizing the independence of Croatia and Slovenia in late 1992 would deter Serbia from attacking them, Germany railroaded its allies into going along in the name of the common foreign policy they had just agreed to in the treaty.
Many now blame premature recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina for inciting Serbian attacks there, and say the Germans bear special responsibility for the tragedy. When Secretary of State Warren Christopher pointed the finger at Germany again, in June, German diplomats reacted with strong protests.
But the fact remained that, whatever Germany might or might not have done to lead its European partners into a mess in the Balkans, it was unable to do much to help them get out of it.
 
Devaluation an Embarrassment
 At the Bundesbank, Dr. Schlesinger and other leading officials have always argued that if matching Germany's high interest rates was undesirable or too painful for neighboring countries, all they had to do when speculators started attacking their currencies was realign their values against the mark.
But for every other currency but the mark, "realignment" means "devaluation," which is very definitely embarrassing to people like Prime Minister John Major of Britain or Prime Minister Edouard Balladur and President Francois Mitterrand of France.
As for the Germans, many have no idea what devaluation means. The mark has not been devalued against other European currencies since the European Monetary System was established in 1979.
The underlying problem is that Europe's economies run on very different cycles. Britain was deep in recession when Germany was booming three years ago. France kept booming long after Germany sunk into recession. Now France is plunging deeper while Germany hopes it has bottomed out. Britain, which was able to cut interest rates after leaving the exchange rate mechanism, has been able to stimulate its economy and has started to emerge from recession.
Tying currencies tightly together when national economies are far apart simply does not work, yet that was the aim of the European Monetary System. As the weekend crisis proves, a united Europe is still a long way off.
And though it was the last thing the Germans say they wanted, Germany's special national problems and interests have probably made monetary union and the Maastricht treaty itself a dead letter for the rest of this century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); BELGIUM (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); GERMAN MARK (74%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); BRITISH POUND (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); TRENDS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



28 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2936 words

HEADLINE: Vatican Watershed -- A special report.;
Papal Birth-Control Letter Retains Its Grip

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
Twenty-five years after Pope Paul VI put a jolting halt to expectations that the Roman Catholic Church might ease its opposition to artificial birth control, only 1 out of 10 American Catholics agree with the church's position. But the Pope's 1968 encyclical and the furor it created continue to polarize the American church.
Though birth control is seldom the subject of much serious debate among lay people in the 58-million-member Catholic Church, the effects of the initial debate linger like a low-grade fever, flaring up in areas that have little to do with sexual morality. To this day, they shape everything from Catholic views on other issues to the selection of bishops and other leaders. 
 The encyclical, "Humanae Vitae" ("Of Human Life"), was issued on July 29, 1968 -- a time of turmoil around the world, a moment of street battles at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago and just between the student uprising in Paris and the Warsaw Pact's invasion of Czechoslovakia. Today its critics and defenders are very much in evidence.
 
Effects Still Argued
 At conferences observing the encyclical's anniversary, like one attended by 1,400 people, including 14 bishops, in Omaha last week, the defenders are calling it prophetic: they say it accurately predicted that modern societies would slip into promiscuity and exploitation if contraception severed sexual activity from reproduction.
Critics reply that "Humanae Vitae" has itself contributed to the breakdown of sexual norms by undermining the church's credibility on questions of sexual morality in general, especially among young people.
A strong defender of the encyclical, Pope John Paul II, has made the condemnation of contraception a pillar of his papacy. He will visit Denver for an international gathering of Catholic youth Aug. 12 to 15, and it will be uncharacteristic if he makes no reference to his views.
Today, Catholics are as likely to use contraception as other Americans -- and to do so with a good conscience.
In a 1992 poll, 8 out of 10 Catholics said they disagreed with the statement that "Using artificial means of birth control is wrong." And 9 out of 10 told a New York Times poll in 1987 that "someone who practices artificial birth control can still be a good Catholic."
 
Issue of Credibility
 The changes are not limited to contraception. The Rev. Andrew M. Greeley has written of "the catastrophic collapse of the old Catholic sexual ethic" -- for example, more Catholics than Protestants now say that premarital sex is "not wrong at all" (44 percent to 35 percent, according to a poll by the National Opinion Research Center). And he says that because of "Humanae Vitae," papal authority has suffered, and so has Catholics' loyalty to the church: attendance at Mass and financial contributions both fell sharply after 1968.
Other critics, like Bishop Kenneth Untener of Saginaw, Mich., say the church's position on birth control has corroded its credibility with women and lay people. "Those who teach and preach have felt less confident in attempting to provide guidance in sexual matters," he wrote in a recent issue of the journal Commonweal. "Lay people are increasingly suspicious of the willingness of the hierarchy to listen to them on important matters."
The Rev. Richard A. McCormick, a leading Jesuit scholar in medical ethics who teaches at the University of Notre Dame, said he worried that the American church was "getting some very mediocre and unimaginative episcopal leaders" because the Vatican was using the birth-control teaching as a litmus test for choosing new bishops.
Defenders of the encyclical, encouraged by support from Pope John Paul II, say it is high time the church appointed bishops who outspokenly support the church's official teaching.
The defenders believe that the exclusion of critics like the Rev. Charles E. Curran, who lost his professorship at Catholic University because of dissenting views on contraception and other sexual questions, is if anything all too rare. They say the increasing numbers of abortions, out-of-wedlock births and cohabiting unmarried couples all seem to confirm the warnings of Pope Paul.
Yet over all, supporters and critics of "Humanae Vitae" are in agreement about many of the changes in Catholic life in its wake.
The two sides differ mainly in whether they blame the encyclical itself or the public rejection of it by leading theologians, combined with many bishops' low profile on the issue.
This fall, Pope John Paul is expected to issue a long-delayed encyclical on moral reasoning that will bolster his predecessor's declaration, either explicitly or implicitly.
 
The Issuing
Letter Set Tone On Contraception
 "No papal teaching document has ever caused such an earthquake in the church as the encyclical 'Humanae Vitae,' " wrote the Rev. Bernard Haring, one of Catholicism's foremost moral theologians, shortly after the encyclical was issued in 1968.
The controversial nub of Pope Paul's conclusions are in a few paragraphs among general reflections on marriage, sex, parenthood and morality. There is an "inseparable connection," the Pope declared in those passages, between the reproductive purpose of sexual intercourse and the emotional, physical and psychological aspects that express a couple's love.
Therefore, the argument continued, not just did the marriage as a whole have to be open to bringing new life into the world but so did each sexual act. Deliberately blocking the possibility of procreation violated the act's meaning, which the current Pope usually expresses as "total reciprocal self-giving."
 
New Questions in 60's
 For much of the 20th century, opposition to contraception has been an identifying mark of the Catholic Church. "We grew up thinking it was wrong and that could never be changed," recalled Patty Crowley, a Chicagoan who, with her husband, led the Christian Family Movement, an organization of Catholic couples that grew rapidly in the 1950's.
New questions about the church's position were raised in the early 1960's when the birth control pill was introduced. But it was the Second Vatican Council that by altering many church attitudes and practices between 1962 and 1965 created an atmosphere in which revision of the ban on contraception became thinkable.
By 1964, American Catholics began to read reports that some theologians approved of the use of the pill. Church officials disagreed, but their statements only warmed the debate.
The Second Vatican Council did not settle the matter. It approved a statement on marriage that emphasized the role of sex in expressing the love of spouses and their right to limit the size of their families by moral methods of birth control.
But what methods were moral? At the bidding of Pope Paul VI, that question was handed to a special advisory commission on family and population problems originally established by Pope John XXIII. Pope Paul enlarged the commission, adding bishops, medical experts, theologians and even three married couples, including the Crowleys, by then the international leaders of the Christian Family Movement.
Along with extensive theological arguments, the commission examined the results of a survey the Crowleys had made of couples in their movement. Many of them had tried to practice "rhythm," the one method of birth control the church accepted, abstaining from intercourse during the wife's fertile days.
 
Leaning Toward Change
 "Our input was crucial," said Ms. Crowley, now an 80-year-old widow who helps maintain Deborah's Place, a shelter for homeless women in Chicago. "We took couples that were trying to do what the church said, and some of the letters were just heartbreaking -- traveling salesmen and people out to sea coming home at the wrong time."
By the summer of 1966, an overwhelming majority of the Pope's commission, including many who had been advocates of prohibiting contraception, reached the conclusion that a change in church teaching was justified. When their report to the Pope was leaked to the press in March 1967, it became front-page news.
While Paul VI was agonizing, many Catholics were already making up their minds. By the mid-60's, only 14 percent of Catholics supported laws that forbade offering birth control information -- down from 45 percent in 1936. In 1964, not quite half the Catholics told pollsters that they would like to see the church accept contraceptives; a year later 63 percent favored a change.
When "Humanae Vitae" finally appeared, reflecting the position of a minority on the Pope's commission rather than the majority, the response was explosive. "We got a call from the press in the middle of the night," recalled Ms. Crowley. It was the morning of July 29 in Rome. "We just said we didn't believe it."
Father Curran mounted a public protest, composing a statement criticizing the encyclical that was signed by over 600 Catholic scholars. Many of the world's best-known theologians signed it or a similar European statement.
"We never even had a letter from Rome," said Ms. Crowley, who along with her husband had left their children to work on the papal commission. "I guess I'm a bit bitter about it."
 
In Practice
Few of the Young Tackle the Issue
 Twenty-five years after the encyclical, younger Catholics appear to take contraception as much for granted as Ms. Crowley's generation once took for granted the church's condemnation.
The encyclical's supporters are probably right in complaining that few younger Catholics have read "Humanae Vitae" or grappled with the moral arguments that it reflects.
Consider Joanie Collupy, who is just the kind of Catholic that Pope John Paul II wants to reach through his coming visit to the church's "World Youth Day '93" in Denver.
A 1991 graduate of St. Joseph College in West Hartford, Conn., Ms. Collupy spent two years working with teen-agers at a government health clinic in Alaska -- and providing them with information about birth control.
Hoping to devote herself to church service, Ms. Collupy is starting graduate studies in theology at the University of Dayton in September.
But until she read a recent newspaper editorial, Ms. Collupy said, she had never even seen the name of the papal document condemning contraception. "I'd heard of it and knew the church was against birth control, although a lot of priests would tell people simply to do what they thought best," she said.
 
Not a Leading Issue
 A priest who works extensively with young adults was asked how often they ask about birth control; he replied on the condition that his name not be used. "In 23 years of talking to people prior to marriage," he said, "the issue of contraception has never come up from them. It is absolutely amazing. Not once."
John Fontana, a layman who works with young adults for Old St. Patrick's Catholic Church in Chicago, said that for them, all that counts about the encyclical is that it left "a public relations image of the church and sexuality that is fairly negative."
"We are now dealing with the children of the people who wrestled with this as young adults in 1968," he said. "That was the first major segment of the Catholic population who were college educated and could engage theologians in real discussions of sexual morality."
But after the encyclical and a few years of fierce debate, "it just petered out," he said, and young people "are simply not going to the church" to ask about sexual issues.
"They are looking for people with psychological credentials rather than religious ones," he went on. "If the psychological credentials are there, a bridge to religious meaning can be built. If you're a parent or teacher and you're ambivalent about an issue, it isn't easy to pass it on with clarity."
 
The Resurgence
Pope Says Issue Is Not Debatable
 For some years after 1968, the papal condemnation of contraception appeared to have so little effect on the tide of Catholic opinion and conduct that many people thought that in time the Vatican would quietly abandon its position. That impression ended in 1978 with the election of Pope John Paul II.
From the start John Paul has been an ardent defender of "Humanae Vitae." He insisted that Catholics should abide by it and in 1987 declared that its teaching "does not belong to the category of matter open to free discussion among theologians."
Encouraged by the Pope, supporters of "Humanae Vitae" have rallied. They have published fresh philosophical and theological defenses of the encyclical. They have found platforms in new study centers and international conferences financed by conservative Catholic groups like Opus Dei and the Knights of Columbus.
Prof. Janet E. Smith is the author of "Humanae Vitae: A Generation After" (Catholic University of America Press, 1991), the latest major English-language entry into the debate. An associate professor of philosophy at the University of Dallas, Professor Smith said her interest in the topic began after she had left the church as a college student in the late 60's and early 70's.
She came back after gradually deciding that the church's opposition to abortion was right. Teaching at the University of Notre Dame, she found very few people who supported the church's teaching on sexuality and almost no one who taught it.
"I decided to bite the bullet," she said in an interview last week, "and found students receptive. I also had friends getting married and reporting satisfaction with natural family planning." Now, she went on, she is "interested in stemming the kinds of sexual madness that society is embarked upon."
 
Seeing Momentum
 Professor Smith and other defenders of the church's ban on contraception believe that they have regained the momentum in the debate.
"Instead of doing their own homework," she said, "the dissenters simply dismiss the traditionalists and the Pope as members of the flat-earth society."
Many defenders of "Humanae Vitae" draw additional strength from their conviction that its ban on contraception is infallible doctrine, not because Pope Paul said so but because it expressed something universally taught by the church before controversy broke out in the 60's.
A vast majority of Catholic ethicists reject this view, as well as the encyclical's teaching on contraception. "If you talked to 10 moralists, it would be three in support at most, seven against or evasive," acknowledged one defender, Msgr. William B. Smith, a professor of moral theology at the New York archdiocese's St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers.
Those critics remain unpersuaded by the encyclical's basis -- the principle that the dual meaning of sex, uniting the couple and reproducing human life, must be somehow respected not only in the totality of a married life but in each act of intercourse.
In addition, many couples find the Pope's talk of "total self-giving" or condemnations of contraceptive sex as "degrading" or "anti-life" to be far from the realities of married life, where they say that love has to cope with clashing work schedules, sick children and everyday exhaustion.
But both sides in the debate complain that for bishops, priests, and lay people, the division over contraception has created an unhealthy discrepancy between public declarations and private beliefs.
Monsignor Smith said that he found many of the theological dissenters "dishonest" for not acknowledging the radical effect of their focus on overall intentions and consequences rather than individual acts. This approach to morality, he said, could justify not only premarital and homosexual sex but almost any deed historically considered sinful.
As for insisting on the church's official teaching when dealing with Catholic couples, "there's a great deal of tiptoeing," he said; many priests "are not all that sure that the institution really means what it says."
Bishop Untener said that the only answer was "honest and open discussion."
Monsignor Smith called for "education," adding, "you don't accomplish much out of fear or threats."
While the bishop's "open discussion" would make room for dissenting views, the monsignor's "education" would not.
"We're just not going anywhere on this," Ms. Crowley said.
 
 
Short History of Encyclicals
 Popes have made formal declara tions since ancient times, but only in the 18th century did these begin to take the form of encyclicals, pastoral let ters written (or "circulated," the root idea of the Latin term) to the whole church.
With increasing frequency since the mid-19th century, Popes have issuedencyclicals to address both questions of doctrine and political or social de velopments.
Pope Leo XIII, for example, criti cized the treatment of industrial work ers in "Rerum Novarum" in 1891. Pope John XXIII took up questions of world peace and social welfare in "Ma ter et Magistra" in 1961. Two years ago, Pope John Paul II wrote about the religious and economic lessons of the collapse of Communism in "Centessi mus Annus."
With a few exceptions, the official texts of encyclicals are in Latin, al though they may be drafted in other languages. Their titles come from the first few words of the text.
Not everything in encyclicals is con sidered equally binding on Catholics, who have quite commonly interpreted and applied them with very different emphases. While acknowledging that positions taken in papal encyclicals have been eventually set aside or re vised, church officials warn that Cath olics should not ignore them in the meantime.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Pope's signature on the 1968 encyclical. (United Press International) (pg. 1); The Rev. Charles E. Curran, who lost his professorship at Catholic University because of dissenting views on contraception and other sexual questions. (Associated Press, 1986); Twenty-five years after Pope Paul VI's encyclical "Humanae Vitae" on artificial birth control for Roman Catholics, it continues to cause a furor. In 1966, the Pope rode in an open automobile during a pilgrimage to the birthplace of Pope Leo XIII outside Rome. (Associated Press) (pg. 26)
 
Graphs: "A Sparser Flock With Changing Views," track Catholics who say they attend chuch several times a month or more, by age-group; opinions on the morality of premarital sexual intercoures, 1972, and 1988-90; those who say legal abortion should be available under various circumstances, 1972, 1988-90. (Sources: Study by William C. McReady and Andrew M. Greely in America magazine; National Opinion Research Center) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HOLY SEE (92%); ITALY (73%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (73%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); HOLY SEE (92%); ITALY (73%); ROME, ITALY (73%); 

SUBJECT: BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (95%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ETHICS (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; POPE (PAUL VI) (1897-1978) PETER T POPE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



29 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON APPROVES A PLAN ON BOSNIA

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
President Clinton gave his final approval today to a plan for using air strikes to help protect the Bosnian Muslims, Administration officials said.
The United States has called for a NATO meeting in Brussels on Monday to discuss the proposal. The President's decision means that despite recent progress in negotiations on partitioning Bosnia, Washington is determined to press ahead with planning for air attacks to safeguard Muslim civilians and protect aid deliveries. 
 The Administration believes that the threat of air strikes is needed to press the Serbs to negotiate in good faith and to reassure the Bosnian Muslims that they will be left with a viable, if small, territory that will not merely exist at the sufferance of their enemies, the officials said.
 
Serbian Victory Seems Near
 Deteriorating conditions in Sarajevo and other Muslims areas, as well as intelligence projections that the Serbs are on the edge of a complete victory, have also prompted the Administration to move forward with its plan.
Mr. Clinton discussed the plan at a White House meeting this morning with his top aides. Secretary of State Warren Christopher; Anthony Lake, the national security adviser; Defense Secretary Les Aspin, and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, attended the half-hour session.
The meeting was described by one Government official as a final review of a plan that had been the subject of high-level interdepartment deliberations. Even before today's meeting, Washington began alerting its allies that it intended to press its new initiative formally.
Mr. Clinton sent letters on Friday to heads of state and to Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations explaining the importance of safeguarding Sarajevo and suggesting the need to expand the use of force to protect of Muslim civilians as well as United Nations peacekeepers.
 
Call for a NATO Meeting
 To further explain the Administration's thinking, Mr. Christopher spoke by telephone today with Western foreign ministers and underscored the need for a NATO meeting on military and economic measures to reverse the deterioriating situation in Bosnia.
Mr. Christopher plans to proceed with his plans to travel to the Middle East. The Administration has chosen Stephen Oxman, the Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, and Reginald Bartholomew, Washington's representative at the current Bosnia talks in Geneva, to represent the United States at the NATO meeting.
The Administration's effort to promote a settlement in Bosnia does not depend entirely on military threats. Officials say they are determined to keep economic sanctions on the Serbs until it is clear that they are prepared to respect whatever new boundaries are decided in a partition of Bosnia and to stop their attacks on the Muslims.
In addition, senior Administration officials say Washington may need to apply economic sanctions to the Croats if they do not respect the terms of a peace settlement. The shelling of Spanish peacekeeping troops on Friday occurred in an area where Croatian forces have been active, although the United Nations says it has been unable to identify the culprits.
 
'Strangulation' of Sarajevo
 A senior Western official said that the United States had made headway in meetings with its British and French allies on the plan for broad use of air power, but that allied officials continued to have some reservations.
But that was before the Clinton Administration put its prestige behind the plan by contacting heads of state and calling for a NATO meeting.
While Administration officials say they are proposing the use of force to prevent the "strangulation" of Sarajevo and other Muslim enclaves, they have yet to spell out publicly the details of their military plan.
As a result, it is not clear whether Washington is prepared to begin attacks to stop any shelling of the Muslim enclaves, as some senior Administration officials have suggested, or is planning some lesser form of protection. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat, for example, has urged that a weapons-free area be established around Sarajevo and that United Nations troops interpose themselves in this zone. But it is not clear whether the United States and its allies are prepared to go that far.
 
Preparations for Air Strikes
 While the allies discuss how to protect the Muslims, NATO and the United Nations are pressing ahead with preparations to use air strikes to protect United Nations peacekeepers.
Spotters, radar equipment, laser designators and communications equipment are being moved into Bosnia to establish a command and control arrangement for calling in air strikes. American, British, French and Dutch warplanes are deployed in Italy for this purpose, and the United States and France have aircraft carriers in the Adriatic.
Though this network is being established at this point only to protect the peacekeepers, it would provides a basis for the United Nations to extend its protection to civilians as well if allied nations agree to the Clinton Administration plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BELGIUM (92%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BELGIUM (92%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CROATIA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA RELIGION (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OXMAN, STEPHEN (ASST SEC) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



30 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Flinching Over Washington's Hand in State Wallets

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 30

 BODY:
As Governor of Arkansas, President Clinton was just as generous as other state and local officials in ridiculing the Federal Government's practice of sticking its long arm into their affairs, particularly when it came to how they spent their money.
So it was no surprise when Mr. Clinton, speaking by satellite to the National Conference of State Legislatures gathered here, sought to reassure his former colleagues. "The evidence is clear, at least based on my personal experience," he said, "that Federal money goes farther, does more good, has a bigger impact, if we stop trying to micromanage it and overregulate it, and instead let it be spent where the people and the problems are." 
 But while Mr. Clinton's comments drew applause, many state officials said they were still suspicious of him and his budget bill. Their fear is that while the President and the Democratic Congress sound sympathetic, they are more interested in unveiling new programs that are bound to squeeze state and local budgets and only intensify the strains that have developed between Washington and local governments.
Paul D. Schauer, a Republican State Representative from Colorado, told his colleagues at the meeting here, "I'm sure all of you have horror stories of New England communities monitoring for contaminants that can only be found in pineapples in the fields of Hawaii."
No one laughed.
Each new proposal from President Clinton and the Congress, whether controlling the deficit, overhauling the health care and welfare systems or curbing illegal immigration, draws more resentment from local governments. They fear that they will be forced to foot the bill, often for regulations that make no sense in their states.
 
'Ongoing Tug of War'
 At issue are the growing number of cases when the Federal Government imposes costly regulations on state and local governments without providing money to pay for them. Local officials have carped for years about requirements threatening their "fiscal sovereignty," but their concerns have only escalated with the new Administration at a time when many jurisdictions are scraping for money for basics like police protection and sanitation.
Recent studies have found that as much as 60 percent of state budgets is often devoted to programs that are in part required by the Federal Government.
"This plays havoc on all our state budgets," said Wayne Goode, a Democratic state senator from Missouri. "It's an ongoing tug of war. We're told, 'If you don't do this, we'll take away your Federal highway funds.' That's the biggest threat."
Harry A. Green, the executive director of a Tennessee agency that handles governmental relations, was more blunt: "This whole process has become mean, nasty and brutish. It just shifts the burden from Washington."
To prove that they are not just crying political wolf, several states are drafting legislation this year to challenge Congressional efforts to impose requirements, or at least to make it easier for states to win exemptions from them. And some members of Congress are pressing for measures that would give states relief from such requirements, or at least require Congress and Federal agencies to assess how much financial burden new laws would place on them.
To draw public interest in the requirements, the United States Conference of Mayors has announced plans for a National Unfunded Mandates Day in September.
 
Wide Agreement
 The subject was also a big topic here, with legislators complaining about requirements for everything from clean water regulations to Medicaid to enforcing the new disabilities law. In a survey of 590 legislators at the conference, 90 percent agreed that requirements without accompanying financing provisions were making it increasingly difficult to balance state budgets.
The mandate issue is viewed as so severe that the National Conference of State Legislatures now publishes a booklet of several pages, the "Mandate Watch List," almost monthly to "alert readers to particularly threatening legislation under active consideration."
One example cited by the conference was language in Federal budget legislation that would affect how states regulate and tax telecommunications companies. The conference warned its members in a memorandum that "at least 32 states would be directly affected at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars."
After explaining to state legislators here that they were fortunate that the deficit reduction plan no longer contains a tax on all forms of energy (though it is expected to contain billions of dollars of new costs to state and local governments), Christopher Zimmerman, chief economist for the National Conference of State Legislators, warned that the worst may be yet to come. "They didn't do a lot of things we most feared," he said. "But hold your breath and keep your fingers crossed for health care reform."
 
Sympathy From Dole
 In a sign that the states are being heard, Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader, told the group, "There is a bipartisan sense now that we've got to slow down, that we're unloading part of our burden on the states."
Arthur Hamilton, who is president of the conference of legislatures and the House Democratic leader in Arizona, seemed heartened by the comments of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole, saying "people used to just laugh at us" when they complained about mandates.
Yet it was not clear whether the President and Mr. Dole were just using the issue to win applause from the legislators. Mr. Dole, for one, was most critical of the newly passed "motor voter" bill intended to ease voter registration. He warned the legislators that "you're picking up the tab -- we ought to fund the mandate or we shouldn't do it in the first place."
But it is no secret that Mr. Dole had long opposed the legislation, which is widely believed to lead to the registration of more Democrats, so his comments appeared to be as much a criticism of the legislation itself.
Since they are no strangers to political reality, several state legislators said they did not expect the onslaught of unfinanced requirements to stop coming their way anytime soon. They said, though, that they hope their opposition will at least slow the practice.
In the meantime, most states will probably try to do what they have done for years: pass on part of the burden to local jurisdictions.
"You bash up and you pass the buck down," said Alan Rosenthal, director of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. "That's how it works."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LOCAL GOVERNMENT; FEDERAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



31 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Unsure of Effects of Paring Altman Charges

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
As the criminal trial of Robert A. Altman enters its final, critical phase this week, lawyers familiar with the case are divided over how to interpret the significance of a decision by a New York State Supreme Court judge to dismiss half the charges against Mr. Altman.
Some say the ruling weakened, if not gutted, the Government's case. The decision was made on Thursday by Judge John A. K. Bradley, who threw out four charges, including an important bribery count. 
 "It can't help the prosecution in any manner that I can see," said Ronald P. Fischetti, a criminal defense lawyer who is a close friend of Gustave H. Newman, the leader of Mr. Altman's defense team.
Others say the action may turn out to be a blessing in disguise for a prosecution that they say has often appeared to take a scattershot approach during the four-month trial.
And still others say both the defense and prosecution may feel uneasy about the decision because the judge's actions in the case have been inconsistent.
No lawyers involved in the case would comment publicly, in keeping with Judge Bradley's request last week that prosecutors and defense lawyers refrain from speaking to the press until after the jury reaches a verdict.
 
Central Accusation Remains
 Mr. Altman, 46, now faces four charges, including the central accusation that he systematically engaged in a scheme to defraud regulators about the role of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International in the acquisition and management of First American Bankshares Inc., once Washington's largest bank holding company.
Prosecutors say Mr. Altman and Clark M. Clifford, Mr. Altman's former law partner and mentor, were aware that a group of Middle Eastern investors they represented were merely front men for B.C.C.I. when they purchased First American in 1981.
Mr. Clifford, 86, was indicted with Mr. Altman over a year ago. But after heart surgery in early March, Mr. Clifford, a former Secretary of Defense, was deemed too ill to stand trial. Both men have denied the accusations and contend that they were duped by the investors.
Testimony concluded in the case last week, and closing arguments will begin Wednesday. If convicted on the remaining charges, Mr. Altman would face a maximum prison term of 16 years and could be fined up to $20,000.
Aside from establishing the connections linking B.C.C.I., the investors and Mr. Altman, a large chunk of the prosecution's case has focused on the sensational details of the deal Mr. Altman and Mr. Clifford had with B.C.C.I. to purchase First American stock, shares that were bought in 1986 and 1987 at no risk with loans from B.C.C.I.
 
$9.8 Million Profit
 In 1988, roughly 20 months after the stocks were initially purchased, some shares were sold at a 300 percent profit, producing a pretax profit of $9.8 million for the two men. B.C.C.I., prosecutors charge, bought those shares.
Judge Bradley's decision to throw out the bribery charge makes it highly likely that when lawyers for both sides meet on Monday to argue what should be included in the judge's instructions to the jury, Mr. Newman will press hard for an instruction to disregard all testimony about the stock deal.
Mr. Newman's closing argument, scheduled for Wednesday, could also reflect the fact that a financial payoff from B.C.C.I. is no longer part of the government's case against his client. Mr. Newman may argue that the lack of an economic incentive to participate in a scheme to commit fraud legitimates his client's claim that he was fooled by the investors and B.C.C.I.
But other lawyers noted that a substantial part of the indictment remained intact and that evidence presented about Mr. Altman's stock dealings might remain part of the record.
"The judge will have to instruct them that no charge of bribery will be submitted to them, but the testimony may be admissible for a different purpose," said Otto G. Obermaier, a former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York who is now a partner at Weil, Gotshal & Manges.
 
Avenue Left Open
 The fact that three false-filing counts are left in the indictment may provide that avenue. Those are filings, signed by Mr. Altman, with the New York State Banking Department for the years 1988, 1989 and 1990; among other things, the filings list his name as a shareholder in First American.
The lawyers who argue that Judge Bradley's ruling may turn out to be favorable for the prosecution say that by limiting the case, the Judge has forced Assistant District Attorney John W. Moscow, the lead prosecutor, to adopt a more focused approach, correcting what those lawyers say has been a major weakness.
Widely seen as a brilliant investigator, Mr. Moscow has spent years tracking and uncovering B.C.C.I.'s fraudulent activities. But in the courtroom, Mr. Moscow's vast knowledge about B.C.C.I. and its ties to Mr. Altman has at times proved to be more of a hindrance to the prosecution than a help, the lawyers add.
In effect, Judge Bradley's ruling will place legal blinders on Mr. Moscow when he sums up the prosecution's case on Thursday or Friday.
These lawyers also point out that by throwing out four counts of the indictment, Judge Bradley may also have simplified his task of what to instruct the jury about the case.
But nerves are on edge about the Judge and his upcoming rulings, partly because of what has happened thus far.
Before the trial began in late March, Judge Bradley commented that based on grand jury transcripts, "the evidence of guilt is overwhelming." Since then he has become much more circumspect.
Thursday's decision came as an extreme surprise to a number of lawyers. Based on rulings by the New York State Court of Appeals, they said, decisions about whether prosecutors have met the burden of proof should, in most cases, be left to the jury.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CREDIT AND COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL; FIRST AMERICAN BANKSHARES INC BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (66%); FIRST AMERICAN BANKSHARES INC (66%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CREDIT AND COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL; FIRST AMERICAN BANKSHARES INC NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING LAWYERS (91%); VERDICTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUDGES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); BRIBERY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; BRADLEY, JOHN A K (JUSTICE); ALTMAN, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



32 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Senate Confirms Mondale as Envoy to Japan

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
The Senate has approved former Vice President Walter F. Mondale to be the United States Ambassador to Japan.
By voice vote, the Senate confirmed Mr. Mondale and more than a dozen others for senior diplomatic posts on Friday. 
 The Senate also approved James J. Blanchard, the former Governor of Michigan, to be Ambassador to Canada, and Stuart E. Eizenstat, a policy adviser in the Carter Administration, to be the United States representative to the European Community.
Also confirmed were Robin Lynn Raphel, counselor for political affairs at the United States Embassy in India, for the new State Department post of Assistant Secretary for South Asian Affairs.
Other ambassadorial appointments approved were Thomas J. Dodd of Washington for Uruguay, Jeffrey Davidow of Virginia for Venezuela, Alan H. Flanigan of Virginia for El Salvador, John Maisto of Pennsylvania for Nicaragua and Donald C. Johnson of Texas for Mongolia.
Other nominations confirmed were those of Richard M. Moose of Virginia for Undersecretary of State for Management, Mary M. Raiser of Washington for White House chief of protocol and David L. Aaron of New York for United States representative to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (93%); MONGOLIA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY ; ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY ; ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; CANADA ; URUGUAY; VENEZUELA; EL SALVADOR; NICARAGUA; MONGOLIA UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (93%); MONGOLIA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE ; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MONDALE, WALTER F; RAPHEL, ROBIN LYNN; BLANCHARD, JAMES J; EIZENSTAT, STUART ; DODD, THOMAS J; DAVIDOW, JEFFREY; FLANIGAN, ALAN H; MAISTO, JOHN; JOHNSON, DONALD C ; MOOSE, RICHARD M; RAISER, MARY M; AARON, DAVID L BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



33 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Says Chinese Economy Rivals Japan's

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency says China's economy is bubbling -- indeed, close to overheating -- with a gross domestic product of $2.35 trillion, matching Japan's and growing at 13 percent a year.
In an annual report to Congress presented today, Martin Petersen, the C.I.A.'s top East Asia analyst, said reforms instituted over the last 14 years have sharply improved living standards in China, and allowed free domestic markets to flourish. They have created "a modern economic power," the third-largest economy in the world, after those of the United States and Japan. 
 Among the modern aspects of the Chinese economy is inflation, which reached 16 percent in China's cities last winter. Another is a huge trade surplus with the United States, which Mr. Petersen said could reach $24 billion or more this year.
Last year, American exports to China rose 19 percent to $7.5 billion. But American imports of Chinese goods, particularly textiles, shoes and toys, rose 35 percent to $25.7 billion, for a record American trade deficit of $18.2 billion. Japan did better in the Chinese market, boosting sales to about $12 billion and buying about $17 billion worth of Chinese goods.
The strongest trend in the Chinese economy reported by the C.I.A. was a 160 percent increase in foreign investment -- almost all of it from Japan, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Despite their longstanding political and cultural enmity with China, those three countries were responsible for more than 85 percent of the $11 billion in foreign investment in China in 1992, the analyst said.
Economic reform has come to China in a trial-and-error approach, which the official described as "crossing a river by feeling for the stones." Among the firm footings the economy has found, he said, are these: Industrial output grew 22 percent last year, the number of companies nearly doubled, and investment in fixed assets grew about 38 percent.
The slipperiest stone remains inflation. The 16 percent rate is "shocking to a leadership that has always feared inflation," Mr. Petersen said. "While the economic expansion is good news for Beijing -- creating new job opportunities for many Chinese and adding to Beijing's clout as an emerging economic power -- it is threatening to spiral out of control."
Three weeks ago, Beijing began trying to cool the economy by halting the construction of new development zones and ordering government banks to recall dubious loans, the analyst said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (96%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; STANDARD OF LIVING ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); TRENDS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; PETERSEN, MARTIN

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



34 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Budget Talks Take a Breather, but Clinton Presses On

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
Hung up on odds and ends, Congressional budget negotiators took the weekend off, but President Clinton and his staff continued today to try to drum up support for his economic program.
Mr. Clinton invited a group of tourists at the White House into the Rose Garden about 8:30 this morning and delivered a campaign-style speech in which he insisted that his program was essential for economic recovery and would pose little burden to middle-income Americans. 
 On Capitol Hill today, Congressional staff technicians churned out one computer spread sheet after another showing how much revenue various proposals would raise and how much other proposals would cost. At this stage, every dime is important, and money taken from one program must be found in another.
Downtown, two dozen Administration officials gathered in what they call the war room on the first floor of the Old Executive Office Building next door to the White House and placed telephone calls around the country to promote the program and to try to line up votes in Congress for it.
 
Plan for Thursday Vote
 The Democratic Congressional leaders who are putting together the final package, an amalgam of deficit-reduction bills passed in May by the House of Representatives and last month by the Senate, broke Friday night, saying they had resolved all the main issues and needed only to tie up loose ends before signing a final agreement on Monday.
Plans now are for a final vote in the House next Thursday and in the Senate late Thursday or Friday. The prevailing view in the Capitol is that the measure will become law. But at best it will be a cliffhanger, and no one can say where the necessary votes will come from. All the Republicans in the House and Senate plan to vote against it.
The bill passed the House in the first round by six votes, 219 to 213. Since then, several representatives who voted for it have expressed second thoughts, and one, W. J. (Billy) Tauzin of Louisiana, has said he definitely plans to vote "no" next week.
In the Senate, the bill passed originally on the strength of Vice President Al Gore's tie-breaking vote. This week, three Senators who were in favor then, David L. Boren of Oklahoma, Herb Kohl of Wisconsin and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, have expressed reservations.
 
Clinton's Pitch
 In his speech today, Mr. Clinton said: "Unless the Congress acts on this budget, we cannot remove the uncertainty that exists in the economy. We cannot continue to bring interest rates down, and we cannot possibly move on to the other challenges that await us."
He stressed that 80 percent of the new tax revenue would come from people earning more than $200,000 a year and that "no working family earning less than $180,000 will pay a penny more in income taxes."
The only extra tax on the middle class, he said, would be "less than a dime a day" for gasoline.
The White House announced that Mr. Clinton would deliver a speech on the budget on television Tuesday night.
Traveling in North Carolina today, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, responded to the President by issuing a statement. "The White House fog machine is on full blast," it asserted. "No matter how hard the President tries, he can't make this tax-heavy package look good."
The negotiators have agreed to raise the top tax rate, now 31 percent, to 36 percent for individuals with taxable incomes between $115,000 and $250,000 and couples with taxable incomes between $140,000 and $250,000. The rate for taxpayers with taxable incomes above $250,000 would be 39.6 percent.
Taxable income is the amount left after deductions and personal exemptions are subtracted. A taxable income of $140,000 is the equivalent of an adjusted gross income of about $180,000, and a taxable income of $250,000 usually means the taxpayer has a total income above $300,000.
 
Agreement on Gas Tax
 The negotiators have also agreed to add 4.3 cents a gallon to the current 14.1-cent Federal gasoline tax. According to the World Almanac, the average driver drove 12,858 miles last year. At 20 miles to the gallon, such a driver would pay an additional $27.60 a year in gasoline taxes.
Other key provisions that have been settled would lower military spending and limit the explosive growth in spending for Medicare.
The issues still unresolved include tax deductions and credits for businesses, the precise size of the Medicare limits and the effective date for the higher income taxes.
The legislators also have not decided exactly how much the total deficit reduction would be, although the figure is almost certain to be between $490 billion and $500 billion over five years, making it the largest such package ever enacted.
This seems like small potatoes in a $7 trillion, five-year budget accord, but the political stakes are so high and passions are running so deep that decimal points can cause snags.
The White House has continued to put the best face on the prospects. From the war room, Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger C. Altman, the officer in charge, said it was his understanding that reaching a final agreement was "just a matter of checking with the conferees and making sure they are prepared to sign, rather than any substantial differences."
Lawrence F. O'Donnell Jr., the chief of staff of the Senate Finance Committee, agreed that basically only tinkering remained to be done. "We may have to take small amounts from here or there that are in the spirit of what we've already agreed to but are not technically what we've agreed to," he said.
 
Tensions Rising
 After days of sitting around conference tables in small rooms in the Capitol, nerves have begun to fray.
Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee, the chairman of the Budget Committee, seemed about out of patience. "Every time you turn around," he said, somebody's shoving a note under the door saying they've got to have another $200 million for this or $400 million for that. And then somebody comes in and says the revenue estimate is $1.5 billion different from what it was yesterday. I've had it."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STILL ON THE TABLE"
 
A few of the items that the budget negotiators have not resolved:
 
Small Business. To encourage investment in new equipment, the House bill would allow small businesses to deduct up to $25,000 each year in equipment purchases, up from the current $10,000. The Senate bill put the figure at $20,500. To save money, the conferees would like to reduce the maximum deduction to $17,500, but the Clinton Administration prefers a higher number.
 
Research and Development. The tax credit businesses were allowed to offset research and development costs expired June 30, 1992, because its extension was part of a much larger tax bill that President George Bush vetoed. The House bill would extend the credit permanently and make it retroactive to July 1, 1992. This was a Clinton campaign promise. The Senate bill would allow the credit for one year beginning July 1, 1993, but would not make it retroactive.
 
Meals and Entertainment. Both the House and Senate would reduce the deductible portion of business meals and entertainment costs to 50 percent from the current 80 percent. But the lobbying on this issue has been fierce, and the negotiators are considering a figure of perhaps 60 percent or 70 percent in the hope of picking up a few votes for the final version of the bill from wavering lawmakers.

Medicare. The House bill would restrict the exploding growth of Medicare spending by cutting $50 billion from its budget over the next five years. The Senate voted for a $58 billion cut. The final figure will probably be in between.
 
Effective Date. Under the House bill, the higher income-tax rates on upper-income taxpayers would take effect Jan. 1, 1993. The Senate made the effective date July 1, meaning that the income-tax increase this year would be only half as high. The conferees tentatively agreed to set the date at March 1, but now they are considering going back to Jan. 1 to generate a few billion dollars more in revenue.
 
Photo: Senator George Mitchell of Maine, speaking to reporters on Friday after Democrats and Clinton Administration officials announced an agreement on a budget package. With him were Senators Thomas S. Foley of Washington, left, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); INCOME TAX (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); AL GORE (58%); HERB KOHL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



35 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Skirted Own Rules on Military Contracts

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31

 BODY:
The Pentagon is skirting its own rules by farming out military contracts to other Federal agencies, a practice that frequently avoids competitive bidding and drives up costs, Pentagon officials have acknowledged.
The Pentagon routed at least $6.3 billion in military work to other agencies in 1990 and 1991, according to an audit by the Pentagon's inspector general that was obtained by The Associated Press. 
 In one case, the Defense Department used the Tennessee Valley Authority for $18 million in spending for highly classified submarine-detection research, Pentagon auditors said. The auditors determined that the T.V.A., the electric utility serving seven Southern states, lacked "adequate security clearances" for such a contract.
As testimony opened before a Senate government management subcommittee, Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the panel, said the T.V.A. took a fee to pass on the contract to the Pentagon's preferred contractor, ESG Inc., which actually performed the work.
When auditors intervened, Mr. Levin said, Pentagon officials used bookkeeping sleight of hand to redirect the money to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which channeled it back to the T.V.A., which passed it on once more to ESG.
The inspectors general of the Defense Department confirmed Mr. Levin's findings and said steps were being taken to correct the situation.
The Air Force also went through the T.V.A. for a truck, walkie-talkies with headsets and boom microphones, designing a machine-gun range and clearing trees and underbrush at a cost of $1 million, said Derek J. Vander Schaaf, the Pentagon's deputy inspector general.
At another agency, the Pentagon incurred $11 million in unnecessary costs by having the Energy Department oversee $100 million in research projects on hazardous waste and computer systems, an audit found. The Pentagon should have issued the contracts itself, it concluded.
The audits do not assert any violation of Federal law, although a Senate subcommittee plans to review the cases.
"We identified hundreds of cases" where the Defense Department could have handled work, but shipped it out to other parts of the Government instead, Mr. Vander Schaaf testified.
The reason for going to other agencies is that it is "a means to circumvent procurement regulations," he said, "and expeditiously obtain goods and services from contractors."
The Federal Economy Act requires a determination that going to another agency is cheaper than direct acquisition. But Mr. Vander Schaaf said that farming out the work to another agency frequently costs more.
Mr. Levin said, "What we have here is a widespread practice by Federal agencies of breaking rules and violating important checks in the procurement system."
The practice of routing work to other agencies frequently has been used at the end of the fiscal year as departments scramble to spend unused money that otherwise would revert to the Treasury.
Two Pentagon audits show how the Defense Department conducts the practice year-around, invoking the Economy Act that allows one Federal agency to use or borrow the expertise of another in certain circumstances.
"D.O.D. managers were unaware" how much they had spent until auditors added it up, according to one audit report, which calculated the total cost of routing work to other agencies at $6.3 billion for 1990 and 1991.
The audits indicate additional costs from the practice. For example, the Pentagon paid $1 million to the T.V.A. for handling the submarine detection program, documents show.
And when the Pentagon routed the work through the Energy Department's Oak Ridge, Tenn., installation, auditors concluded that the practice had added $11.6 million to the final bill. They found "multiple tiers of subcontractors, which in turn added three or four tiers of indirect costs for administering the projects."
Federal regulations generally require that contracts be advertised for competitive bidding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TVA (NYSE) (89%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (57%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%); US AIR FORCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%); US AIR FORCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; DEFENSE CONTRACTS DEFENSE CONTRACTING (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUDITS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%); 

PERSON: VANDER SCHAAF, DEREK J CARL LEVIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



36 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
War Room General Plots Fight on Economic Turf

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29

 BODY:
In the middle of chaos, with computer printers humming, phones ringing nonstop and five television monitors blaring, Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger C. Altman calmly surveyed the Administration's war room as he planned the next forays in the protracted battle to push the President's budget package through Congress.
Mr. Altman has been hunkered down in this overstuffed room for the past three weeks, ever since the White House asked him to run the war room operations. The 30 people he oversees are responsible for developing and executing a strategy to nudge or straight-arm (whatever it takes) President Clinton's $500 billion deficit-reduction plan through Congress. 
 Mr. Altman was chosen for the task because he knows politics, is an expert on economics and has been over more than a few waterfalls before, in business and in Government.
"We're down to the two-minute warning," Mr. Altman said as he took a break that was sandwiched between calls to Congressmen. He sat behind one of the two large U-shaped tables that hug the walls of the office, an ornate, 19th-century room in the Old Executive Office Building. "This is one of the crucial moments in the early history of this Administration."
To his right, Marla Romash, a senior aide to Vice President Al Gore, was coordinating television appearances, radio interviews and speeches by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and other Administration officials. Across the room, Rahm Emanuel, a political aide, and Gene Sperling, an economic aide, were feverishly planning a rapid response to a Republican report charging that the President's package would clobber small businesses. The second-in-command of all this activity is Ricki Seidman, the deputy communications director.
 
On the Line of Scrimmage
 With the Administration squaring off against the Republicans day after day over the budget, Mr. Altman is playing middle linebacker, directing the defense and getting in the hardest hits by accusing the Republicans of hypocrisy and worse. Although his face is not as well known as the face of Mr. Bentsen or Leon E. Panetta, the White House budget director, Mr. Altman is becoming one of the Administration's most prominent -- and partisan -- economic spokesmen.
A sample, from a CNN interview: "I don't think we adequately anticipated the cynicism of the other side, both of Republicans themselves and a variety of right-wing groups going out and saying to middle-income Americans, you're going to pay enormous new taxes under this plan, when in fact under the Senate bill the average family earning $40,000 is going to pay one dollar a week of higher taxes under this plan."
For good measure, he added, "There have been gross distortions."
Mr. Altman's new role could be a dry run for him to move on to bigger things. Within the Administration, it is assumed that Mr. Bentsen, who is 72, will not remain Treasury Secretary for eight years. At the age of 47, Mr. Altman is one of the favorites, if not the favorite, to succeed him.
For Mr. Altman, politicking for Mr. Clinton is old hat -- he was a year ahead of Mr. Clinton at Georgetown University, but he worked hard in Mr. Clinton's unsuccessful race to be president of the school's student council. ("It was clear even back then that he had considerable political gifts," Mr. Altman now says.)
 
Millionaire Populist
 The image Mr. Altman projects can seem somewhat at odds with his populist message. He was a millionaire investment banker during the go-go 1980's. He owns a ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyo., where he ropes and brands calves during vacations. He walks with the self-confident swagger common among bluebloods.
But his life is a real Horatio Alger story. His father died when he was 10, and his mother supported him on a librarian's salary in Boston. As he grew up seeing his mother's efforts to help poor children, he was drawn toward Democratic politics, he said. In graduate school at the University of Chicago, he had so little money that he cooked for his roommates and they paid for his food in return.
As an investment banker, Mr. Altman put in long hours, often working past midnight. Perhaps that experience helps Mr. Altman feel at home in the frenzied war room -- sometimes called the rec room, for reconciliation room -- by its inhabitants. The war room's purpose is not just to get the President's budget approved, but, with an eye to the elections of 1994 and 1996, to convince Americans that the budget will bring them economic benefits, like lower interest rates.
"Secretary Bentsen has a wonderful line -- we not only want to enact President Clinton's budget, but we want to enact it with the American people," Mr. Altman said. (He talks almost fawningly about Mr. Bentsen: "I think the term 'class act' was invented for him." "My job is to do what he would like me to do.") In the past few months, with Mr. Bentsen working overtime lobbying on Capitol Hill, Mr. Altman has handled many of the administrative chores of running the Treasury.
 
Barbs From G.O.P.
 But Republicans do not give Mr. Altman high marks. They mock the war room's work, ridiculing assertions like the one that Mr. Clinton's program will help create eight million jobs. They say those jobs will be created even without his program.
G. William Hoagland, the Republican staff director for the Senate Budget Committee, said in an interview: "Roger Altman might be a great Deputy Treasury Secretary, he might have made millions on Wall Street, but in terms of communicating effectively, most of the stuff he has put out has been pure unadulterated junk. Maybe he has a difficult plan to defend, but he's certainly not doing a good job defending it."
Just as Mr. Clinton spent his life training to be President, Mr. Altman seems to have spent his life training to be Treasury Secretary. While studying for an M.B.A. at the University of Chicago in 1968, he worked in Indiana, organizing volunteers for Senator Robert F. Kennedy's Presidential campaign.
In 1969, he joined Lehman Brothers; five years later, he became its youngest general partner, specializing in mergers. He campaigned for Jimmy Carter in 1976, worked on the transition team and became Assistant Treasury Secretary for domestic finance.
In that post, he was the point man on the New York City and Chrysler bailouts. That meant he spent much of his early 30's twisting arms, getting union leaders to accept wage freezes and bankers to accept slower repayments. Only after he extracted such concessions did the Government come through with the loan guarantees needed to avoid bankruptcy.
In the Chrysler talks, many company officials feared that he was driving too hard a bargain with the banks and that the banks might push the company into bankruptcy rather than accept Mr. Altman's demands. But he finally got Chrysler's 400 banks to agree not to call in their loans for at least four years. "At the time I thought it was too tough," said Robert S. Miller, a retired Chrysler vice chairman. "But that four-year standstill gave us the breathing room we needed to survive."
Mr. Altman rejoined Lehman Brothers in 1981, but in 1985, after American Express acquired Lehman, he joined a new investment banking firm, the Blackstone Group. He was Blackstone's vice chairman and ran its worldwide mergers and acquisition business.
"He is a fiscal conservative," said Peter G. Peterson, a former Commerce Secretary and chairman of the Blackstone Group, "who believes the nation is investment-starved. But on social issues, he is certainly a progressive. It's probably accurate to call Roger a policy wonk."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger C. Altman, left, Deputy Treasury Secretary, stationed in the Administration's war room for weeks, is overseeing the effort to get President Clinton's deficit-reduction plan through Congress. With him were Edward Knight, center, a Treasury adviser, and two of the 30 office staff members. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Roger Charles Altman"
Born: April 2, 1946, Boston
Hometown: New York City
Education: Roxbury Latin, Boston; Georgetown Unversity, B.A. 1967; University of Chicago, M.B.A., 1969
Career highlights: Lehman Brothers, 1969 to 1977, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance, 1977 to 1981; Lehman Brothers, 1981 to 1985; managing director of the Blackstone Group, 1985 to 1992; economic adviser to Michael Dukakis in 1988 Presidential campaign.
Family: Married to Jurate Kazickas. Three children, two girls and a boy.
Interests: Politics, jogging, skiing, fly-fishing, tennis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ALTMAN, ROGER C (DEPUTY SEC) ROGER ALTMAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (73%); AL GORE (57%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); LEON E PANETTA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



37 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Trying Serial Murder: Where to Begin?

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

 BODY:
Of all the questions surrounding the case of Joel Rifkin, who is accused of killing 17 women, the first quandary prosecutors must resolve is this: Who will get the first crack at convicting him?
Legal experts say the case is a jurisdictional morass involving nine counties in the New York region, since the authorities have said Mr. Rifkin killed most of the women in Manhattan and dumped their bodies in rivers and woods in a wide area from eastern Suffolk County to northern Putnam County. The state police are coordinating the murder investigations, but a month after Mr. Rifkin's arrest, a squadron of prosecutors is still trying to resolve where he will be tried and in what order to bring the cases. 
 Prosecutors say they want to make sure that the first case tried is the strongest, since an acquittal in the first trial could weaken all the other cases. It is also important that they gain more than one conviction, they say, to make it virtually certain that Mr. Rifkin, a 34-year-old unemployed landscaper, will never be paroled.
 
Lure of Praise and Publicity
 And, of course, the prosecutor who wins the first case against Mr. Rifkin will reap the greatest windfall of praise and publicity. While none will say so publicly, the prosecutors themselves admit that they are extremely reluctant to yield authority in high-profile cases in which a conviction is certain to burnish their reputations.
"Jurisdictional problems in this case are so unusual that they are almost guaranteed to create ego rivalries over a high-profile serial murder case," said Laura A. Brevetti, a former Federal and state prosecutor. "The question is sure to be which D.A. is going to get the most honor and publicity, and everybody wants it."
James B. Jacobs, director of the the Center for Research and Justice at New York University's School of Law, said Mr. Rifkin's case illuminates internal disputes that often arise from the country's decentralized law-enforcement system.
"This case raises extraordinary jurisdictional questions, and there is no institutional mechanism in the state's criminal justice system to resolve them except through negotiations among the prosecutors themselves," Mr. Jacobs said. "With such an abundance of crime, it seems almost humorous for law-enforcement people to be fighting for business."
 
More Than One Trial Urged
 But James M. Catterson, the Suffolk County District Attorney, said, "When you have 17 dead, that fact cries for more than one indictment and trial."
Prosecutors and their aides from the affected counties -- Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Orange and Putnam -- said that while no agreement had been reached, the schedule of trials would probably be based on who has the strongest evidence.
Denis E. Dillon, the Nassau County District Attorney, said that his office and several others were prepared to try Mr. Rifkin but that one or two of the prosecutors were delaying decisions because the trials could be complicated and might strain the resources of their staffs.
"I don't know what will happen down the road, but so far there has not been any rivalries over who will prosecute first," he insisted.
Under state criminal procedure law, a murder case can be prosecuted in a county where the killing occurred or where a body is found.
 
Corpse in Trunk, Police Say
 Mr. Rifkin was arrested by the state police in Mineola in Nassau County on June 28 after a car chase that began when troopers tried to pull him over for a routine traffic violation. They said they found the corpse of a Manhattan woman, Tiffany Bresciani, 22, under a tarpaulin in the back of Mr. Rifkin's truck.
State police officials said that on the day of his arrest, Mr. Rifkin admitted strangling Ms. Bresciani and 16 other women, many of whom had arrest records for prostitution. The officials say they found evidence in Mr. Rifkin's home in East Meadow, L.I., tying him to an 18th murder.
The statements by Mr. Rifkin, state police officials said, led to the recovery of 14 bodies in the nine counties, but they have been stymied in their search for four bodies.
Indicted in Nassau County on July 13th in the murder of Ms. Bresciani, Mr. Rifkin pleaded not guilty and is being held without bail in the Nassau County Jail. He has not been indicted in any other killings.
 
Admissions Not Recorded
 His lawyer, Robert Sale, said he expected that the first trial would be held in Nassau County because the prosecutors assert that Mr. Rifkin can be directly implicated in Ms. Bresciani's death through the finding of her body in his truck. All of Mr. Rifkin's admissions, police authorities said, were made to investigators without being written or recorded on video or audio tape, and prosecutors expect that Mr. Sale will try to suppress the statements as evidence.
Last week, most of the prosecutors rejected a proposal by Mr. Sale for the nine counties to consolidate their cases and to hold a single trial in one county on all charges.
Mr. Dillon and Mr. Catterson said state law precluded a joint trial covering indictments in several counties.
Mr. Sale, however, maintained that the district attorneys had the discretionary authority for a combined trial. He said that prosecutors, whom he declined to identify, had told him that the Manhattan, Nassau and Suffolk offices "did not want to abdicate their cases."
Three bodies were found in Manhattan, two in Suffolk County and one in Nassau County.
 
Cost of Multiple Trials
 Mr. Sale said that a single trial would save the state hundreds of thousands of dollars in court costs and that multiple trials would place "an impossible economic burden" on Mr. Rifkin and his family.
The lawyer said that in addition to Nassau County, he expected that prosecutors from at least four more counties would seek indictments.
Although the prosecutors have declined a joint trial, Mr. Sale said the office of Manhattan District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau might prosecute Mr. Rifkin at a single trial for four murders committed in that borough. Nancy Ryan, chief of the trial division in the Manhattan office, said no decision had been reached.
An insanity plea for Mr. Rifkin was being considered, Mr. Sale noted. To be acquitted under such a plea, the defense would have to prove that at the time of each murder, Mr. Rifkin was suffering from a mental disease or defect and failed to know or appreciate that the criminal act was morally wrong.
 
'Son of Sam' Similar
 The last major serial murder case in the region with overlapping jurisdictions occurred in 1978 with the arrest of David R. Berkowitz, who called himself "Son of Sam." He pleaded guilty to nighttime forays in which he used a .44-caliber gun to slay six young women and wound six women and men in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens.
Mr. Berkowitz pleaded guilty to all charges at a single session in Brooklyn at which State Supreme Court justices from Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx separately heard his pleas. He was sentenced to 25 years to life, the maximum term that could then be imposed for multiple murders, making him eligible for parole consideration after 25 years.
The law has since been changed and Mr. Rifkin, if convicted, could be sentenced to consecutive minimum terms of 25 years, eliminating any hope of parole.
Ms. Brevetti, the former head of the Federal Organized Crime Strike Force for the Eastern District of the state, was an assistant district attorney in Brooklyn when prosecutors wrangled over jurisdictional rights to try Mr. Berkowitz. "Behind the scenes, there were a lot of meetings and a lot of screaming and yelling," Ms. Brevetti, who is now a defense lawyer, recalled.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "CRIMINAL JUSTICE -- Prosecuting the Rifkin Case"
 Map shows locatiions in New York-New Jersey area where bodies have been found.
 
 
BROOKLYN -- 3 Victims
 1. Body of unidentifed woman found in steel drum in Newtown Creek, Brooklyn, May 13, 1992
 2. Maryann Holloman, 39, of Manhattan.
 Body found in a 55-gallon oil drum in Coney Island Creek, July 9, 1992.
 3. Lorraine Orvieto, 28, Stony Brook, L.I.
 Body found in a 55-gallon oil drum in Cropsey Creek, July 11, 1992.
 
MANHATTAN - 3 Victims
 4. Barbara Jacobs, 32, of Queens.
 Body found in a cardboard box in the Hudson River and 10th Street, July, 1991.
 5. Yun Lee, 31 of Queens.
 Body found in a steamer trunk in the Harlem River, near Randall's Island, September 1991.
 6. Torso and other body parts of unidentifed woman found in the Harlem River near Randall's Island, July, 1992.
 
SUFFOLK COUNTY - 2 victims
 7. Leah Evans, 27, of Brooklyn.
 Body found near County Route 51 in Westhampton, L.I., May 1993.
 8. Unidentified body found near Old Riverhead Road in Southhampton, June 29, 1993.
 
THE BRONX - 1 victim
 9. Jenny Soto, 23, of Brooklyn.
 Body found in the Harlem River, May, 1992.
 
QUEENS - 1 victim
 10. Iris Sanchez, 25, of Manhattan.
 Body found near Kennedy International Airport, June, 1993.
 
NASSAU COUNTY - 1 victim
 11. Tiffany Bresciani, 22, of Manhattan.
 Body found in back of Joel Rifkin's truck in Mineola, L.I., June 28, 1993.
 Status: Rifkin indicted for second-degree murder.
 
PUTNAM COUNTY - 1 victim
 12. Anna Lopez, 33, of Brooklyn.
 Body found in town of Patterson, May 1992.
 
WESTCHESTER COUNTY - 1 victim
 13. Mary Katherine Williams, 39, of Queens.
 Body found in Jefferson Valley area of Yorktown,December 1992.
 
ORANGE COUNTY - 1 victim
 14. Mary Ellen DeLuca, 22, of Valley Stream, L.I.
 Body found in Cornwall, Oct. 1, 1991
 Police are searching in the Nyack and Harriman areas of Rockland County, two in New York City and one in New Jersey for missing bodies.
 
 (Source: New York State Police)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: PUTNAM COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); POLICE FORCES (71%); PAROLE (70%); ACQUITTAL (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; RIFKIN, JOEL

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



38 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 2493 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Mr. October Is Now A Man For All Seasons

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARMEL, Calif.

 BODY:
On a Saturday in June 1977, Martinez Jackson, a tailor in Wyncote, Pa., just outside of Philadelphia, received a phone call from his son, Reggie, in Boston, and it was clear that his son was terribly upset. Martinez Jackson had raised Reggie pretty much alone, after he and his wife had divorced when the boy was 6. He raised him on Greenwood Avenue in Wyncote, the block where all the blacks in town lived.
At the time of the call, Reggie Jackson was 31, an outfielder with the New York Yankees, and it came after a game against the Red Sox. Reggie had always said that his father is the most important influence in his life and he talked often to his father, at that point in 1977, over the 10 years of his major league baseball career. 
 Most times, the calls were pleasant, even thrilling. "I just popped two today, Dad," Reggie might say. "Oh, you did?" his father might reply. "That's great! Just great!" But as Reggie Jackson remembered that call in June 1977, there was a different feeling. That afternoon he had had another clash with his manager, Billy Martin, in the dugout after Martin accused Jackson of loafing after a ball in right field, and Jackson denied it. They almost came to blows.
 
What Dad Believed
 "I'm having trouble with the manager, Dad," said Reggie. He told him how Martin had got into his face and how Reggie said don't get too close, you're only 150 pounds and you're 50 years old and that, said Reggie, is when he "went off." Other players had to pull them apart.
"Forget the manager," Martinez Jackson told Reggie. "Remember, son, you're still a colored boy. And the man in the office is payin' you good money. Just go back and hit the ball over the wall."
By "just a colored boy," Martinez Jackson, the tailor, meant that Jackson should not consider himself, as Reggie interpreted it, "a big shot." "You got to appreciate what you got," said his father. "You're making $600,000 a year. You're putting food on the table, you got money in your pocket, you've been given a chance to be somebody. Go with dignity. Just do your job."
This afternoon, Reginald Martinez Jackson, who went back and hit the ball over the wall, the way his father had suggested, will be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y. Martinez Jackson, age 90, will be in attendance, an honored guest of the inductee. Jackson's father, an old Negro League player who never got a chance at the big leagues because of segregation, wasn't telling him, as Jackson heard it, to shuffle for the Man. And Reggie Jackson never did that. He took pride in having attended college -- Arizona State, where he remains 16 credits short of a degree in biology -- and took pride in being a new generation of black American, one not afraid to speak his mind, regardless of consequences.
Reggie Jackson hit 563 balls over the wall in his 21-year major league career, sixth on the career list; only Hank Aaron, Babe Ruth, Willie Mays, Frank Robinson and Harmon Killebrew had hit more. And Jackson did it with as much style and drama as anyone who has ever played. No one has ever moved about a ball field with as much obvious delight or seeming need to be in the spotlight, to virtually lasso it if necessary. It appeared that Reggie Jackson, 6 feet tall, 215 pounds and broadchested as a rooster, his eyes behind dark glasses and a roll to his stride, luxuriated as the chants of "Reg-gie!" "Reg-gie!" washed over him.
He was called Mr. October for his exploits in the World Series, where his lifetime batting average in 27 games in five Series is .357, nearly 100 points higher than his regular-season lifetime average. His Series slugging average of .755 is the best ever. And he hit 10 homers in the Series, at a rate of about once every 10 at-bats, the second-best percentage ever.
In one of the most stirring nights in baseball history, Jackson, against the Dodgers in Yankee Stadium on Oct. 18, 1977, ripped three straight homers, each one on the first pitch, and when he ran past first baseman Steve Garvey on the last one, Garvey, he later told Jackson, applauded into his glove.
 
Loves His Nickname
 "Mr. October," he said recently, drawing out the name. "It's the best, better than Say Hey Kid or the Mick. The Yankee Clipper -- what's that? I'm not talking about them as ballplayers -- they were great -- but this is nicknames. You know which one I liked a lot? The Galloping Ghost -- Red Grange. You can just picture that. Like you can Mr. October."
It was said by an Oakland teammate, pitcher Darold Knowles, "There isn't enough mustard in the world to cover Reggie Jackson," hot dog supreme. And of course Reggie himself made that never-to-be-forgotten reference to being "the straw that stirred the drink" for the Yankees, and rhapsodized about the "magnitude of me."
 
Bottom Line: He Produced
 He preened, he could be overbearing, he hyperbolized in word and deed, and he seemed at times not to have an unaffected bone in his body. He might casually break appointments, but, above all, for a ballplayer, he produced, and produced often when it was desperately needed. And in the end you wondered whether the shimmering ego was, in amateur psychology, just a coverup for a basic insecurity that perhaps none of us, maybe not even the subject himself, might understand, or acknowledge. From here, it looks like a combination of talent and the inner demons driving him to succeed.
"We won 11 division titles, 6 American League pennants, were in 5 World Series and won 3 of them," said Jackson. "And I hit in the big slot in all of those.
"I can't say I relished those moments under pressure -- at least, not at the moment -- but I succeeded in them. I rose to the occasion. I knew what to do, how to control it. I mean, Michael Jordan doesn't want to have to score 20 points in the last quarter to win. It is nerve-racking. But you have to adjust to the clutch, do what you have to do -- that's what they're paying you for. And the first thing is to make sure you're mind wasn't cluttered."
This was said one day last week as Jackson sat at the kitchen table of his handsome, secluded five-bedroom house on a hill here. From the picture window, one could see out past the tall Monterey pine trees to, down below, the edge of town and then out to the spectacular ocean sparkling in the afternoon sun. But Jackson, now 47, still looked powerful in T-shirt -- he works out in a gym for two hours, five days a week -- blue jeans and hiking boots. A sprig of gray hair curled up from under a felt Yankee cap, which covered a retreating hairline and shadowed the salting of gray in his dark mustache.
 
Just You and the Ball
 And slowly he began to transport himself, to a ball field, with 60,000 people waiting eagerly to see what he would do next.
"Yeah, you gotta get everything out of your mind except that ball the pitcher's got in his hand, and you're thinking of getting the barrel of the bat in the pay zone -- on time!" he said. He raised his right arm and extended it, with the five fingers at the end representing the enemy, the opposing pitcher. His left fist at his side was a proxy of him at the plate, grasping his black bat:
"Get yourself together, you tell yourself. You got the pine tar on your hands. You mash down your helmet. You fix your glasses. You shift your body so your shirt's fitting right, not hugging you. You plant your feet in the dirt, and make sure there's no stones. Your hitting gloves are on right. There can be no excuses, like some guys. 'Oh, something got in my eye.' Or, 'My gloves slipped.' C'mon, man, you didn't do it -- that's all! Ah, but now he's gotta throw. Now I'm in charge. He gotta be out there with it." Now Jackson is talking swifter, dropping verbs like a street kid in the 'hood. "He right there! He right there! Close your eyes and listen and you know who's up. Pow!" Jackson smacked his left fist into his right hand. "That's how I felt up there."
Of course, it wasn't all glory. Jackson holds the record for most strikeouts in a major league career, 2,597 -- far outdistancing the second-place man, Willie Stargell, who had only 1,936.
"I remember I went by Babe Ruth, breezin,' " said Jackson, about Ruth's 1,330, which was the record once upon a time. "And then I went by Mickey Mantle, who once held the record." It was at 1,710. "Mickey told me, 'Reggie, when you passed me it was one of the happiest days of my life.' "
He shrugged. "Yeah, I have lapped a few guys," he said, with a little smile. "Sure, it's a little bit embarrassing owning the all-time strikeout record, but not a lot. Remember, in order for you to strike out that much, they have to have confidence to put you in the lineup."
 
You Can Look It Up
 Striking out was only one of the darts thrown at Jackson. Some said he was a detriment as a fielder, and that his arm was strong but erratic. "The putdowns about my fielding began with Martin, he was the one who began saying it and others picked up," said Jackson. "I thought of myself as a complete player, an intelligent player, who knew how to run the bases and hit the cutoff man.
"But I don't want to have to defend myself as a ballplayer," he said. "All I have to do now is throw them the book and say, 'Look it up: Reggie Jackson, Hall of Famer.'
"You make the Baseball Hall of Fame, it's different from anything else in sports. You become a national resource." Perhaps he meant national treasure, but resource might be right, that you can still take sustenance from the magnitude of Reggie, still feel you can count on him when you need him in the bottom of the ninth.
After retiring from baseball, going back to Oakland in 1987 as a kind of encore, for he had begun his career with the A's in 1967, he now has two jobs -- or two titles, to be sure. He is "adviser to the president" of the Upper Deck Company, a firm that makes baseball cards and is the sponsor of old-timers games. And Jackson is the "special adviser to the managing general partner and principal owner of the Yankees," one George Steinbrenner.
 
Not Much Travel
 When the appointment with the Yankees was made in the spring, Jackson said he would help evaluate talent. How would he do that? Oh, he said, he'd check out statistics and look over guidebooks. When it was asked whether he'd look over talent first-hand, he said, well, sure.
"I get to New York maybe one week a month, and talk with Gene Michael," said Jackson, referring to the Yankee general manager. "But I'm checking out the young guys in the minor league system."
How often does he make trips?
"Not as often as I'd like."
How often has he been to their minor league teams so far?
"Well, once, to Columbus for three days."
 
$6 Million in Cars
 Jackson seems as interested in his antique automobile collection as he is anything else. He has 94 cars, including a plum 1955 Chevrolet Bel Air in mint condition with license plates "R M JAX 44" -- 44 being his Yankee number -- that he was driving swiftly through Carmel traffic, the exhaust pipes gunning, the '50s music station loud and him bouncing to the beat of "Great Balls of Fire" with his baseball cap turned catcher-style. He keeps most of his cars covered in plastic in a warehouse in Carmel. He says his collection might be worth $6 million. He lives alone, having married once, in his rookie season, and then was soon divorced. He does have one child, a 2 1/2-year old daughter, Kimberley, who lives with her mother in southern California and whose picture is on a shelf in his bedroom.
Jackson seems to have handled the millions he made from baseball with care. He once said that he could always talk with George Steinbrenner because Steinbrenner was a businessman, like him, but he could never really talk with Billy Martin. "Martin," said Jackson, "was just a baseball manager."
Steinbrenner, meanwhile, courted Jackson in 1977 to play for the Yankees, let him go as a free agent in 1981 -- "the biggest mistake I ever made," Steinbrenner has said. About the controversy over whether Steinbrenner should move from Yankee Stadium, Jackson said, "Why not? It's an economic decision." It sounded like he was shilling for the Boss. After all, Willie Randolph, Jackson's former teammate with the Yankees, and now a working assistant general manager for them, said moving Yankee Stadium from the Bronx would be a terrible thing, given the history of the Stadium. "Willie's from New York," said Jackson. "It means more to him in that regard."
At Old-Timers Day at Yankee Stadium, Jackson remembers talking with Randolph and saying, "You must feel great to have the job you do now, where people look up to you -- a black man making it on the administrative level." And Randolph told Jackson that that was right.
 
Race the Key Factor
 Jackson indeed sees himself on that level, although surely going at his own pace. Like the baseball world, it seems, the business world comes to Reggie Jackson, not the other way around. If his role appears more public relations than hard-core, hands-on, full-time business, well, it's a trade-off, his name and image for his title.
Jackson takes pride in his image and his language, having worked at speaking "with eloquence and style," as his father had advised him from his youth.
"In the end, race remains the most important factor in my life," Jackson said. "The sensitivity to it. When I was younger, a kid in Wyncote, I just took it for granted that I was a second-class citizen. You were made to feel that way. But when I got older, I got mad about about it, but couldn't always say something. Like there were cliques on the Yankees, and they loved it when people said things about me that they couldn't say themselves, or wouldn't say to my face. That I was self-centered or had a massive ego.
"And I felt I was misunderstood about that straw stirring the drink remark. I mean, I came to the Yankees after they'd just lost the Series in four straight to Cincinnati. And I said they had great players like Munson and Guidry and Piniella and Chambliss, but I said I was the last ingredient that could win the championship. The straw that stirs the drink. When it was printed, everyone went nuts."
But the fact is, the Yankees won the championship the next two seasons.
"Then I remember the time on the team bus when Mickey Rivers and I were needling each other and I told him I had a high I.Q. and he said, 'Reggie, you can't even spell I.Q.' And it was funny, but I hated that it was another black man who was saying it in front of some of those other guys. They got a big laugh out of it. I laughed, too. Ha. Ha. But I knew why they were laughing."
On balance, though, Reggie Jackson's memories are sweet. He reached the pinnacle of his profession with a star quality shared by few others and has a plaque in the Hall of Fame to prove it. If he was too absorbed in Reggie Jackson for some tastes, it wasn't too much for his. And still isn't.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jackson and Thurman Munson, top, watching batting practice in 1979 (Barton Silverman/The NewYork Times); after hitting his 45th homer of the 1969 season, Jackson, left, tipped his cap to fans in "Reggie's Regiment" section at Oakland Coliseum; Jackson (44), below, being greeted by Yankee teammates after delivering a game-winning home run in 1979. (Associated Press); In what Tommy Lasorda called "the single greatest performance on a ball field I've ever seen," Reggie Jackson, right, hits one of three home runs in three consecutive at-bats in the final game of the 1977 World Series against the Dodgers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BASEBALL HALL OF FAME (COOPERSTOWN, NY) LOS ANGELES DODGERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BASEBALL HALL OF FAME (COOPERSTOWN, NY) LOS ANGELES DODGERS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASEBALL (94%); ATHLETES (75%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA; JACKSON, REGGIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



39 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Drug Testing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Mr. Lipman brushes aside the objections of "critics" who say workplace drug tests are "intrusive and prone to error." 
 I am one such critic. In 1990, my employer, Motorola Inc., initiated a random without-cause testing program of its United States employees. With the aid of the Civil Liberties Union, a fellow employee and I challenged the policy in the Massachusetts courts. In November 1992, the Massachusetts Superior Court ruled that the company's policy violates the state's privacy act because it "mandates urinalysis without respect to the nature of an employee's duties." Our case is under appeal. Other cases challenging employer drug testing are pending here and in other states.
When companies claim the right to conduct chemical tests on their employees' urine, blood, hair or other bodily fluids and tissues, they are using the drug problem to camouflage a seizure of power over their workers' attitudes. Docile submission to employer drug tests has become the loyalty oath of the 1990's. Who dares refuse when to do so means unemployment and worse -- the stigma of presumed guilt?
We have these crusades from time to time in America in which the public and private sectors collude to rid the nation of witches, or spies -- or now, it seems, noncompliant workers. If we are lucky, this crusade will follow the pattern of its predecessors -- a few years of hysteria after which we look back with chagrin and wonder what came over us.
Meanwhile, what becomes of those who do not believe employers should have search powers that so greatly exceed those we grant to our police? What becomes of those who do not look upon their fellow workers and fellow citizens as criminal suspects? They -- we -- are in for a few bad years.
 
JAMES A. WEBSTER
Clinton, Mass., July 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; TESTS AND TESTING DRUG TESTING (93%); WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); LITIGATION (76%); APPEALS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (70%); 

PERSON: WEBSTER, JAMES A

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



40 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Looking For Work

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Scott Scanlon was blunt, and it was enough to make you shudder. "When people talk about economic recovery," he said, "people tend to think that means more jobs. There's not going to be a recovery in jobs."
Mr. Scanlon is chairman of Hunt-Scanlon Publishing in Greenwich, Conn. It publishes a newsletter, Executive Search Review, aimed at senior-level executives who are looking for work. Some have been looking for two or three years. For many, the search is hopeless. The jobs are gone. 
 Constance D'Agosta of Whitestone, Queens, was once a vice president for human resources at a company that was the target of a hostile takeover. She joined the job search in 1989 and what she encountered was frightening. "For every job on my level," she said, "500 to 1,000 people were applying."
Ms. D'Agosta turned to consultant work and now counsels others who are unemployed. "What I am seeing is incredibly emotional," she said. "The pain, the anguish, the trauma. People are hurting. It's almost like a death in the family."
It is difficult to overstate the importance of a job to most Americans. It is both a financial and an emotional linchpin. But no matter what results from the frantic budget maneuvering in Washington, the employment outlook is poor.
Even companies that are doing well are downsizing. Procter & Gamble, which is enjoying record earnings, announced last week that it will eliminate 13,000 jobs.
John Cammidge, director of employee relations for Bank of America, is among those who call the phenomenon "right-sizing." It's a cold term for a cold procedure. In many cases, employees who have been with major firms for 10, 15, 20 years or longer are being hustled out the door. Referring to one aspect of the changes at Bank of America, Mr. Cammidge said, "We needed to shed people to meet customer flow."
"Realistically," said Mr. Scanlon, "companies just don't need all the people they've had in the past."
"It's very scary," said Bill Belknap of Ridgewood, N.J., a former executive who now does consulting projects. "American companies are really learning to do it smarter, and that means with fewer people."
No one disputes the trend. Companies struggling through a weak economy are pushing profits up by pushing employees out. Very few good new jobs are being created to replace the ones that are being lost. All types of workers are affected, from gung-ho men and women at the highest levels of the corporate hierarchy to kids fresh out of high school and college.
Which leads to a question. How do you sustain a fragile economic recovery while decent jobs are hemorrhaging? Who will be spending the money to power the recovery, especially at a time when the Government is raising taxes and restraining its own spending in an effort to reduce the deficit? And what will be the effect of additional taxes to finance health care reforms?
"There is nothing to suggest that we'll have any significant expansion of the economy," said Markley Roberts, an economist with the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s department of economic research. "The stimulus originally proposed by Clinton was not as big as we had hoped but that's been ground down. There's damned little left."
The Federal Government is contributing to the assault on jobs. On Friday the Senate Armed Services Committee endorsed the recommendation of the base-closing commission to shut down 130 military installations and to scale back operations at another 45. Not only will Federal jobs be lost, but also the jobs of thousands of civilians whose work depends on the existence of the installations.
Earlier in the week, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration announced plans to eliminate 2,000 jobs as it reduces the scale of the space station.
Not nearly enough attention is being paid to the nation's employment problems. There is general agreement that the budget deficit needs to be reduced and Government spending brought under control. But as the fervor for deficit reduction has grown, serious talk about Government investment and other strategies to stimulate employment has faded.
The real issue is jobs. Any attempt at economic recovery is threatened by the millions of Americans who are unemployed, and the millions more who are underemployed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (95%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); TAKEOVERS (69%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



41 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: JULY 25-31;
Dollar Libre: Cuba Tries Tourism And Cash in Crisis

BYLINE: By Howard W. French

 BODY:
With the neatly twinned announcements last week that Cuba will soon allow its citizens to possess dollars for the first time since its Communist revolution while encouraging Cuban-Americans to visit in large numbers, the Government of Fidel Castro is effectively announcing the grave dimensions of its economic crisis.
Mr. Castro's gamble is aimed at attracting more, desperately needed foreign dollars and capturing those already in circulation by enabling Cubans to shop stores previously reserved for foreigners. 
 If the country does draw a large influx of exiles, a major part of the strategy, experts say there will be plenty of other surprises as well.
"The big question is what will Aunt Luisa say when her wealthy relatives start showing up and telling her how awful things are," said Jorge Dominguez, a Harvard specialist on Cuba. "My guess is that it won't take her long to start agreeing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fidel Castro (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CURRENCY; CUBAN-AMERICANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); TRENDS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W FIDEL CASTRO (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



42 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 5; Column 5; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: BLACKBOARD;
America's Schools Are Not Alone

BYLINE: By Veronica Byrd

 BODY:
MANY problems facing your school board, it turns out, are far from unique. A group of 24 university presidents, chancellors and rectors from around the world gathered recently at New York University to compare notes -- and commiserate -- on common difficulties facing public-school education.
Among the concerns of school officials in Russia, Syria, Nigeria, Greece, India and elsewhere, according to the participants, were chronic overcrowding, a lack of economic resources, a decline in student literacy, the negative impact of television, decreasing popularity of science and a decline in social and family values. 
 The university leaders also voiced the need for their own institutions to work more closely than they have with elementary, junior and high schools in preparing students for college or vocational study. "Perhaps we've been too concerned with looking inward," said Sir Claus Moser, Warden of Wadham College at Oxford University. Sir Claus said he was particularly discouraged by the inability of students to understand the social sciences and technology.
New York University's president, L. Jay Oliva, agreed. "Higher education has an enormous stake in the 'product' of our elementary and secondary schools," he said. "There must be constant interaction between these schools and higher education if the crisis in public education is going to be solved."
Stanislav P. Merkuriev, rector of St. Petersburg University, said he believed that all universities -- not just teacher's colleges -- should take greater responsibility in the training of public-school teachers, in part by making general education courses more readily available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SYRIA (90%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SYRIA (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; ILLITERACY; TELEVISION; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; EDUCATION (PRIMARY); EDUCATION (SECONDARY) COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); FAMILY (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); 

PERSON: BYRD, VERONICA

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



43 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 28; Column 3; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Belly Dancing Is Out!

BYLINE: By Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
CALL IT the curriculum of ambition. In its serious incarnation at schools for continuing education, it is "Introduction to Parallel Computing." In its not-so-serious incarnation, it is "How to Make Money Selling at Fairs, Festivals & Flea Markets."
Throughout the economic slowdown, with its large number of white-collar professionals newly unemployed or fearful of layoffs, enrollment in continuing education courses has continued to inch up. 
 And the trend seems to be away from the not-so-serious to the serious. "Belly dancing was very popular five years ago, and now it isn't," said Beth Greer, who owns three Learning Annex franchises in California. "The hottest thing now is career stuff."
Enrollment has risen steadily, if not dramatically, at more than 370 colleges and universities that offer continuing education courses. Most of these courses are three months long and cost anywhere from several hundred dollars to several thousand. Enrollment has also risen, if more erratically, at scores of unaccredited adult "learning centers," where the courses are shorter, as few as two evenings, and less expensive, often less than $50.
Students continue to see the value of these courses, which follow college but do not typically lead to an advanced degree. Yet continuing education has changed considerably in recent years.
To keep enrollment up, schools all over the country have given students what they want: more business-oriented classes, especially those known as career development, meaning getting or keeping a job or striking out on your own as an entrepreneur.
 
Avoiding the Frivolous
 And there is a shift away from what could be considered frivolous courses, like tours of notable houses or tennis for credit.
The approach seems to be working. According to the most recent statistics released by the United States Department of Education, 1992 enrollment of part-time students, who are mostly in continuing education classes, rose about 1 percent, to 6.3 million, from the previous year, and increased 12 percent from five years earlier.
The shift in curriculum is noticeable just from thumbing through course catalogues. At the University of Washington in Seattle, for example, there is not a single recreational or culinary class.
"When I took this job 10 years ago," said Richard L. Lorenzen, the university's vice provost for continuing education, "I felt it was my job to get rid of the wine-tasting, the pop psychology, the kayaking and all that stuff." He added, "Our students are not taking the insurance class on certified employee benefits for a lark."
Instead, there is a great emphasis at the University of Washington on 35 new "certificate" programs, which vary in length from 5 to 11 months and whose cost of several thousand dollars is often borne by employers. They range in field from actuarial science (statistical computation of insurance risks) to fund-raising management (writing grant applications and wheedling donations out of corporations) to software engineering (writing computer programs).
"Master's degrees and Ph.D.'s will always have their place," Mr. Lorenzen said. "But because of the information deluge today, some people in the future may prefer to deal with knowledge in digestible chunks a few months at a time, rather than take two years off for an M.A. and six years or more for a Ph.D."
The University of California at Los Angeles offers possibly the world's largest continuing education program, with more than 4,500 courses and more than 90,000 students enrolled annually. But the huge, 216-page summer catalogue devotes only two pages to sports, where once recreational classes would have gone on for many pages.
These days, U.C.L.A. officials are proud of the "Hospitality/ Food Service Management" program designed to train professional chefs, wine stewards, caterers and facilities managers for the ailing hotel industry in southern California.
Michael E. Stone, a spokesman for U.C.L.A. Extension, said: "One of our continuing-education specialists had a hunch that despite the high vacancy rate for hotels, there was a shortage of trained personnel. His hunch was right and we developed one of our most successful programs."
At the Learning Annex in New York, which started out as a meeting place for singles, one of the hottest classes is not "Steal the Man You Want From the Arms of Another Woman" but "Start Your Own Import/ Export Business (Full or Part-Time)."
"What we have always offered is education but also entertainment," said Harry Javer, director of the Learning Annex in New York, one of six such adult-education schools owned by local franchisees. "The recession froze entertainment dollars, so we had to start offering more education."
At the Learning Annexes in San Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego, all owned by Ms. Greer and her husband, Stephen Seligman, many of the more light-hearted courses like belly dancing have faded away. However, both the New York and California Learning Annexes still have a heavy dose of what they call "edutainment," like "Power Shmoozing -- How to Network for Business and Social Success," in Los Angeles, and "Yes! You Can Find Your Soul Mate . . . Even in San Francisco."
"The buzzwords for us are love and money," said Mr. Seligman. "We know we're going to succeed with both in our classes."
To Joseph F. Donaldson, this return to career basics has a familiar ring. An associate professor of adult education at the University of Missouri at Columbia, Professor Donaldson has studied continuing education's history.
In the early 1800's at Cambridge University in England, dons taught "extramural studies," the forerunner of continuing education, which was designed to teach basic reading and writing skills to the working class.
 
American Copies
 Around that time, Rutgers University in New Jersey and later the University of Chicago copied the English model, offering classes to both college graduates and the general public.
Up until the 1970's and early 80's, most courses in continuing education were career-oriented, Mr. Donaldson said. But with the energy crisis and the resulting fiscal strain on universities, there was pressure to fill classrooms after 5 P.M. to spread out the operating costs of the university with less rigorous courses.
Continuing education is largely financed by student tuition rather than subsidized from regular operations. "There is some temptation for continuing education to be viewed as a cash cow," Mr. Donaldson said. "Popular classes that fill the seats obviously help, but there really is not that great a return on investment." Ann M. Pflaum, a dean of continuing education at the University of Minnesota, added: "It's true that we are the entrepreneurial part of the university, but we're not being turned into a profit center."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADULT EDUCATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ENROLLMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION (92%); CURRICULA (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); ACCREDITATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



44 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 14; Column 4; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 2478 words

HEADLINE: The Fight Over National Standards

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
When former President George Bush pushed for national student standards in math, science, history and other academic subjects and new ways to assess student progress in meeting those standards, there was a ground swell of support. When President Bill Clinton proposed Federal legislation in April to create councils to oversee the work on standards and assessments, many more applauded.
After all, who could argue against setting standards for students that specifically outline what they should know in each subject area at each grade level? And who could oppose exams that better measure student progress toward those standards, abandoning the old multiple-choice tests that research shows are biased against girls and minorities and substituting new assessments that require students to do more writing and demonstrate an ability to think? 
 But as work continues on both standards and assessments, concerns are mounting that the projects in tandem will ultimately spawn a national curriculum -- at once dreaded and criticized by educators, analysts and parents.
Never mind that math is the only subject for which national standards have already been written and that new national student assessments are still being debate and designed, years from actual use. All this worry is being vented even as some, like former Education Secretary Terrel H. Bell, say the country already has a de facto national curriculum, dictated by textbooks and college-entrance exams like the Scholastic Assessment Exam and the American College Test.
None of this eases the minds of critics, however, who have launched an increasingly rancorous opposition in the past year over what they say are the real evils of a national curriculum.
Following the unveiling of President Clinton's legislation, the National Center for Fair & Open Test, a Boston watchdog group, warned about the effects that it said such a curriculum coulkd have on student assessments. In June, the American Educational Research Association sponsored a conference that embodies its concern in the title: "The Hidden Consequences of a National Curriculum." Many of the conferees warned of the dire consequences a federally prescribed framework would have on public schools. And journals of various education associations have published article upon article making much the same case. The sour reactions reflect a host of worries such as the prospect of a loss of local control over schools, a tradition as old as the country. Critics also worry that the national curriculum would hinder innovation in the classroom, as educators would teach to the new standards to make sure their students meet them. Acquiring knowledge and passing tests, they point out, are not necessarily the same thing.
Over time, others fear, a national curriculum could well mimick those found in Great Britain, France, Germany and Japan, models where students in each of those countries study the same subjects from the same textbooks in the same grades, sometimes even on the same days. Such a development, they argue, would wring local and regional flavor from curriculums. And there is concern that the writing of standards is progressing so quickly - and some critics assert without much thought to consequences - that no one can say with certainly that American schools won't ultimately be saddled with a European-style curriculum, which would be less than ideal given the rigidity of national curriculums.
"We need to be more contemplative about these changes as we approach them and get off the notion that something must be done immediately," said George E. Stroufe, director of governmental and professional liason for the American Educational Research Association. Based on studies of other country's national curriculums, Mr. Stroufe says that national "standards and assessments do narrow the curriculum with detrimental effects."
Fueling a good deal of the worry, however, is simple confusion. The public, both sides of the national curriculum debate acknowledge, has been ill served by the education community and public officials who have debated the issues without giving the words "standards" and "assessments" a clear context.
But those devising new standards and assessments say all the hand-wringing is for naught. "Basically, there is no reason to worry," said Lauren Resnick, a University of Professor education professor and co-chairman of the National Standards Project, a group overseeing the writing of national standards. "If you're vision of a national curriculum is one modeled after the French, then there's no need to worry. We aren't headed toward that."
If anything, Ms. Resnick says, a national curriculum might resemble the Norweigian model, a loosely constructed framework of academic standards that local schools work toward meeting with minimal interference from the Federal Government.
The stage was unwittingly built for this acrimonious debate in 1989, when the nation's governors set forth six national education goals later backed by President Bush. By the year 2000, according to the goals, all American youngsters should arrive at school ready to learn; students must exibit proficiency in math, science, history and other subjects, and they must lead the world in math and science. Schools must be free of violence and drugs, and all Americans must be literate and possess the skill to compete in a global economy by the end of the decade.
 By the time the goals were written and endorsed by President Bush and the 50 governors, most states had already initiated efforts to stregthen curriculums. But governor's designation of areas of acedemic achievement in which American students should lead the world by 2000, according to some supporters, provided key elements that had been missing in American education and gave the Federal Government a role as advisor to the states.
 In the wake of the enunciation of these national goals, however, as test after test indicated that American students were still lagging behind their peers in other countries, the persistent cries from the public and the business community through much of the early 1980's that even tougher standards were necessary became even louder. A consequence began building that, for all the education improvements attempted by states, the Federal Governments should step in to provise a national framework.
 President Clinton's "Educate America" legislation is aimed at giving states guidelines to devise their own curriculums. But Opponents believe the legislation contains a number of potential evils.
 "A national curriculum is something that is so nebulous!" said Karthyrn Whitfill, president of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, the umbrella group for seven million parents who belong to P.T.A. groups. "We would be very wary to jump on this bandwagon." The parents' group doesn't just stop at worrying about a national framework for what students should know at each grade level; it opposes the notion of national standards and assessments altogether. "Some school districts might adopt the standards and their students would reach to meet them, while others would not be able to," said Mrs. Whitfill, a parent in Pasadena, Tex. "We are so wary of national standards and assessments. There are more questions than answers now."
 Other critics say the introduction of national standards and assessments would lead to a national curricilum that would underscore yet again the disparities between affluent schools and poor ones. Educators point to the math standards as an example. Those and a companion set of standards for teachers require the expensive retraining of teachers and the wider use of computers and calculators, whose prices, despite recent declines, represent a hefty investment even for well-financed school systems. Critics envision a scenario in which wealthier schools would muster the resources to buy the necessary equipment, leaving behind children in poor schools.
For different reasons, some states are fretting about the so-called "nationalization" of education. In California, which has pioneered in writing standards and assessments for students, some members of the Association of California School Administrators worry that the national effort may undermine the five-year effort by the state's education department to overhaul California public education. What if, asks Davis Campbell, executive director of the state administrators' group, the national standards and assessments do not square with those either already in place or soon to be introduced in California?
"If they are different from what we've done in our state," he said, "we are going to be a little more reluctant to talk about it."
Although Mr. Campbell said the association supported the notion of standards and assessments, "we do get nervous when we talk about it at a national level. You get so far away from children and the classroom. When you go to the national level, that's about as far as you can get from the classroom."
There is evidence to support both sides of the debate, but there is more evidence in America and abroad (with the notable exception of Britain, where teachers are angry over a new national curriculum; page 17) that national standards and assessments need not strip local school systems of control or introduce all the other problems outlined by critics.
In a handful of states like California, Kentucky, South Carolina and Vermont, legislators and educators have designed and introduced new standards and assessments in recent years that have not handcuffed teachers or students to rigid statewide curriculums.
The California experience, for example, is a microcosm of the national debate. In 1983 the state introduced academic standards for all its students, and in the last school year introduced the first component of a new assessment program called the California Learning Assessment Program.
But when state education officials proposed an overhaul of the student testing system, they ran into vociferous opposition from teachers, administrators and parents. The fears in California mirrored those now debated across the country: that new assessments, coupled with the existing state standards, will stifle teacher innovation in the classroom because teachers will feel compelled to teach to the new assessments so that they, their students and their school system do not look bad compared with other state school districts.
State officials, however, successfully defused the concern through a widespread public relations campaign, conducting meetings both for teachers and the public on what the new assessments would mean and how they would be better than the standardized exams.
Dale Carlson, director of California's new assessment program, said that once the state held its meetings, "the criticism from the experts and the professional community of teachers dissipated quite quickly."
In the 1992-93 school year, California introduced the first component of the new assessments, testing students in all grade levels on reading, writing and math. Early reviews have been positive. Educators say the new tests do a much better job of gauging student progress on state standards. The fears are virtually gone, too, that the tests will lead to creation of a statewide curriculum of stultifying sameness.
"We're actually very enthusiastic about the move away from assessments that have driven curriculum instruction for years," said Stephen Peck, assistant superintendent of the Los Gatos Union Elementary School District, near San Jose.
Although he is aware of the danger of teaching to the new standards and assessments, Mr. Peck asserts that "if the new assessments are models of good instruction, I'd much rather have a teacher teach to this new test than teach to multiple-choice tests," which formerly measured California students' progress.
Indeed, there is little evidence historically to suggest that national standards and assessments lead to a numbing sameness of curriculum. At the turn of the century, for example, there were growing concerns about the country's ability to keep up with competitors. The worries helped give birth to the Smith-Hughes Act of 1917, which called for a vocational education curriculum in the nation's public schools.
What the act did was give public schools a framework for a job and vocational training curriculum. What it did not do, experts said, was create a uniformity that squelched local school initiative.
Another so-called "nationalization" of public school curriculum occurred in 1958, with passage of the National Defense Education Act. The act proposed an invigoration of public school curriculum with an emphasis on math and science. Though work on the legislation had begun before the 1957 launching of the Sputnik space satellite by the Soviet Union, that event accelerated its completion.
What the National Defense Education Act did for local schools was give them an impetus to improve existing programs. And like the earlier vocational legislation, it stopped short of imposing "Big Brother" oversight by the Federal Government.
There is, education experts say, a strategic purpose to Federal intervention in public education. But that purpose is not to correct any cyclical lag in the national well-being. "If, indeed, the national interest is being threatened by the rise of new economic powers along the Pacific Rim or by yet another transformation in the nature of work or by a sagging economy," asked Herbert M. Kliebard, an education professor at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, "is the answer to create a national curriculum specifically designed to shore up the weaknesses in American education?"
NOT LIKELY, Mr. Kliebard said. "When there is a real or perceived crisis, there's a tendency in the United States to focus on education. But I don't think that a national curriculum, national standards or anything like that will have any effect on our economic position in the world."
The debate is likely to go on for some time. But the end result undoubtedly will be some sort of national framework. And though there is the potential for the Federal Government to take a "Big Brother" approach in its role, the best guess seems to be that this will not occur. One reason is the role states have already begun playing in devising new standards and curriculums and testing methods. A second reason lies with the local school districts: They are likely to battle any real threat of Federal infringement. Finally, there seems to be no inclination in the Clinton Administration toward that kind of control.
But there does seem to be a consensus developing toward creating national guidelines, or a national curriculum and assessments, that will help public schools better prepare students for a changing and demanding world. And who could argue with that?

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (70%); GERMANY (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER GROUP DIV (76%); AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (70%); GERMANY (50%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); CURRICULA (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D; BUSH, GEORGE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



45 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Fishing Countries Split on Harvest

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 30

 BODY:
Rival fishing nations grimly acknowledged this week that their fleets have thinned out stocks of the world's edible marine fish to levels unimaginable only a few years ago, and that only coordinated conservation and management steps will restore them.
 But at the conclusion of three weeks of talks here, a core negotiating group of 70 governments remained far apart on the central problem: how to reconcile the time-honored freedom to harvest the sea with the biological consequences of overfishing. It is a notion that went largely unnoticed until catch rates worldwide began declining sharply about four years ago. 
There has been broad agreement in principle on the nature of conservation measures that need to be taken," said Satya N. Nandan, a diplomat from Fiji overseeing the talks, the first phase of a yearlong United Nations fisheries conference. "But because there are competing national interests, the issues are very delicate, and the process is difficult and naturally slow."
 The negotiations, one of a series of follow-up conferences on environmental problems mandated by the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, represent the first effort to regulate global fishing since the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which ended in 1982.
 
Three Nations Balk
 As the conference moved toward adjournment, the high stakes in the struggle for dwindling numbers of fish were reflected in an increasingly tense dispute between Russia and several other nations in the Sea of Okhotsk, a formerly rich fishing ground off Russia's east coast, where unregulated fishing appears to have brought stocks of pollock to the verge of collapse.
 On June 15, Russian officials halted pollock fishing within their 200-mile-wide territorial zone in the sea, and called on Japan, Poland, South Korea and China to join in a three-year moratorium in the Okhotsk "peanut hole," a 35-by-300-mile area formed by the converging boundaries of Russian waters.
 But Poland, South Korea and China refused, saying there was no convincing evidence that the stock was in peril, and announced this week that instead they would reduce their fishing activities in that area by 25 percent.
 Russian officials in New York responded that Moscow was prepared to take "all necessary measures" under international law to halt the fishing, which diplomats said could entail stopping or seizing foreign trawlers and assessing captains for damages.
 On Wednesday, the United States announced in a joint statement with Russia released at the United Nations that it would support steps to enforce the Okhotsk moratorium, which it said was in line with efforts by the two countries to save endangered pollock stocks in another area, the Bering Sea.
 "It's a very tense situation, and time is running out," a United States official said.
 
Threat Seen to Law of Sea
 Mr. Nandan said he was worried that an accumulation of similar disputes could threaten the Law of the Sea, which he said "contributes to the peaceful use of 70 percent of the earth's surface."
 The fisheries negotiations involve 60 "like-minded" coastal countries led by Canada, Iceland, Argentina, Chile, Peru and New Zealand, whose economies are bound up with fisheries within the 200-mile territorial limits, and 10 so-called distant-water countries like China, Russia, Japan and the United States whose fleets include more advanced, long-range vessels.
 A paper drawn up by Mr. Nandan as the basis for future talks focuses on proposed guidelines that would be used by regional groups worldwide to begin restoring endangered populations of two key categories of fish: "straddling stocks" like cod, pollock and orange roughy, which swim back and forth between territorial waters and the high seas, and highly migratory species like tuna and billfish.
 Representatives of more than 50 private groups attending the conference as observers expressed concern that while major issues and possible solutions had been clearly defined, there were no corresponding signs of the requisite political will.
 "There is little evidence that any common commitment exists to adopt legally binding obligations at the global level that will inform and guide regional, national and local action," said Malika Naqasima of the Fiji Women and Fisheries network, who addressed the conference on Friday on behalf of many of the groups.

GRAPHIC: Map of Russia and Japan, indicating proposed fishing moratorium zone in Sea of Okhotsk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); BERING SEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; POLAND; SOUTH KOREA; CHINA; SEA OF OKHOTSK RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); BRAZIL (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); BERING SEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; POLLOCK (FISH) CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FISHES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LAW OF THE SEA (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (88%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); FISHERIES (78%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); FISHING LAW (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); OCEANS (71%); 

PERSON: PITT, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1993



46 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 12; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Market Research and Product Image

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
WHEN Reynald Swift, president of Longines-Wittnauer Watch Company in New Rochelle, needed a marketing strategy to create a new image for an old product, he got in touch with B.A.I., a market-research and consulting concern originally called Behavioral Analysis Inc., based in Tarrytown.
"I had worked with them before," Mr. Swift said. "When I was at Arm & Hammer, they helped us develop new products. "I like the thoughtful, creative approach they take, and that's what we needed. Our goal was to strengthen the Wittnauer name and to give it its own identity as a separate brand of watch, which was not as simple as it sounds because for over the last 100 years, Wittnauer has never had its own image; it has always been linked as a companion to the Longines lines." 
 When Mr. Swift was asked why he gave the Wittnauer assignment to a market-research company instead of an advertising agency, he replied: "Strategy. I knew a lot of thought and time had to be spent in developing marketing strategy, which was the vital keystone on which the entire project rested."
The marketing strategy that B.A.I. created for Wittnauer called for reviving the image of Albert Wittnauer, the founder, a Swiss-born watchmaker who emigrated to the United States and started the company in 1885.
 
Ideas Evaluated
 Now, more than 100 years later, Albert Wittnauer, working at his watchmaker's table with his eyeshade, is once again the company spokesman. His image appears in all the print, television and radio advertisements, stressing that the quality craftsmanship of yesteryear is still the hallmark of Wittnauer watches.
The idea was developed, said Kathleen Knight, president of B.A.I., after months of researching the watch industry, which included interviews with consumers, followed by meetings at which the data were examined from many perspectives in order to generate ideas leading to an evaluation of the most promising approaches.
"The objective of our focus groups is to find which new ideas have the greatest potential," Ms. Knight said. "For example, the members of one group included the creative director of an advertising agency, a 30-year-old woman and an older man, both consumers who buy watches, representatives from Longines and two of us from B.A.I. We feel that outside people bring a fresh perspective to the work of our project teams. Sessions are held at off-site locations, and, finally, after all the data are reviewed and evaluated, we come away with a clear assessment of the idea that has the greatest potential."
Mr. Swift said that using Albert Wittnauer as a character identified with the tradition and old-fashioned value of the watch company proved so successful in test markets that this fall the campaign will be extended to 25 percent of the nation.
 
Aided by Computerization
 The growth of B.A.I., Ms. Knight said, parallels the growth of market research as an industry.
"Twenty-five years ago, when Richard Reiser started our company in the basement of his Scarsdale home, market research was a relatively new concept," Ms. Knight said. "Results were laboriously tabulated by hand, but as the computer industry began to grow, so did the market-research industry. The computer made it possible."
Mr. Reiser, 63, has been in Europe meeting with clients, Ms. Knight said. "He studied anthropology and sociology before he became a part-time researcher in order to raise money for graduate school," she said. "He planned to get an advanced degree in sociology, but he was so fascinated by the market-research process he switched from sociology and eventually became the market research manager at Grey Advertising before he started B.A.I."
She added: "We specialize in financial-service companies. A typical assignment that we just finished was an international study held in six countries for our client, a major credit-card company, who wanted a study made of the use of direct mail as measuring how effective it was as a medium to get people to buy financial services products, such as insurance, through the mail using credit cards."
 
A Link to Politics
 What was especially interesting, she continued, "were the similarities we found in the buying habits of peer groups: young people in all six countries, which included Japan and Great Britain, tended to be more trusting in buying things sight unseen by mail."
"On the other hand," she said, "retired executives in Japan and Britain and the United States also had a lot in common in that all of them were reluctant to buy financial-services products through the mail from someone they did not know."
Ms. Knight, who is 51, said she got interested in market research by working on political campaigns.
"When I was in college, I did survey work for the campaign of Congressman Thomas B. Curtis, in St. Louis County, where I lived," she said. "I found the procedure so fascinating that after I graduated from college I took a job directing the work of focus teams for a market-research firm in St. Louis. In 1975, I joined B.A.I. as operations manager. By then the firm had outgrown its base, and our offices were in an apartment in White Plains."
Her first project for B.A.I., Ms. Knight said, was testing the effectiveness of baking soda in septic tanks.
"The client was Arm & Hammer, and the test was done in Memphis. The product not only proved to be extremely effective in septic tanks, but we also uncovered a host of other cleaning uses for it."
 
Two Views of the Recession
 By 1985, B.A.I. had 15 employees and moved into a Victorian mansion in Irvington. Ms. Knight became the president.
"At the end of that year our volume was $1.5 million," she said. "We knew we weren't growing as fast as we should be, but we didn't know why. So we did what we were advising our clients to do: we hired an outside management consultant, who was literally a shrink for the business. He advised us to be less hierarchal and to decentralize management. That, he said, would make us quicker to respond to opportunities and customer requirements. He also suggested we hire someone else, someone on the partner level, as research director. We hired someone we had worked with as a customer, and in five years we had doubled our revenues."
Last year, despite the recession, B.A.I. generated $7 million in sales.
In speaking about the recession's effect on the business, Ms. Knight said: "It's a two-edged sword. We do get a lot of repeat business because, I feel, in the highly competitive world of new-product development -- where the failure rate is 90 percent -- a near miss is a big loss, bigger still during a recession. But on the other hand, there are fewer new products being introduced, and during a recession it is harder to grow new clients."
And, she added, as companies merge and cut back, although there is new business to be had as in-house research departments vanish, there is also increased competition. "What's happening is that a cottage industry has sprung up as the market researchers who headed those in-house departments try to grow their own companies."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LONGINES-WITTNAUER WATCH CO

ORGANIZATION: LONGINES-WITTNAUER WATCH CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WATCHES AND CLOCKS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING COMPANY STRATEGY (91%); MARKETING STRATEGY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); TEST MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



47 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 15; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Placing the Hudson Valley in Perspective

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

 BODY:
THE Hudson River Valley has long been known locally for the richness of its cultural past. But interest in the historical significance of the area is no longer confined to the region. This summer 25 college and university professors from throughout the country gathered at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie to study the national importance of an area that has produced great writers and painters and ultimately produced one of the first visions of a national culture for a fledgling America.
"The Hudson River Valley is the nation's first self-consciously esthetic zone -- the first literal stretch of landscape that was elevated into a symbol of national identity and aspiration," said Dr. H. Daniel Peck, a professor of English at Vassar College. Dr. Peck was the director of a summer institute, called Hudson River Valley Images and Texts, which studied the region. 
 The institute, convened for the first time this year, was sponsored by the American Culture Program at Vassar College and supported by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. The program ran from mid-June to mid-July and drew professors from universities as far away as California, Nevada and Wyoming.
The participants focused on the region in the 19th century, examining the art and literature that emerged side by side during that period. From that they drew a picture of a particularly American sensibility, one based on the valley but symbolic of the emerging country as a whole. For instance, they studied the work of the artist Thomas Cole, one of America's first great landscape painters, and compared his images of the Hudson River Valley with those described in Washington Irving's famous story "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
 
New American Vision
 "When Rip van Winkle goes into the woods for his 20-year sleep, Irving describes the wood in great detail," Dr. Peck said. "In a painting by Thomas Cole, you can see some very clear analogies in terms of what the landscape means, the moral and esthetic meanings for that generation of a forest or glen or a meadow."
Comparing the two genres side by side, Dr. Peck said, one could see not only how the European perspective informed the works but also how the new American vision breaks away and begins to define itself independently.
Those participating in the summer institute were given access to Vassar's Elias Lyman Magoon collection of Hudson River School paintings, which can be seen by the public when the college opens its new Art Center in November.
The Hudson River School is considered the first American native school of landscape painting, and the Vassar collection includes the work of such notable artists as Cole, Frederic E. Church, Asher B. Durand and Sanford Gifford.
The Hudson River Valley that these artists and writers depicted was a hub of economic activity in the 19th century, Dr. Peck said. When the Erie Canal was completed in 1824, the Hudson River became an important gateway to the Great Lakes and was central to the development of American commerce.
 
Field Trips Offered
 Not only did the area reflect America's economic modernization but also its cultural diversity. Several ethnic groups met in the Hudson Valley: the Dutch who had been in the area since the 17th century, the Yankee population from New England, Connecticut and Massachusetts and the indigenous American Indians. Further, slavery still existed in New York at the beginning of the century, and by the 1820's there was a free black population.
"You have a region that demonstrates some of the cultural richness of the new United States," said Dr. Scott Casper, a historian from the University of Nevada at Reno.
As part of the summer program, the professors took several field trips to put their studies of the region into a visual as well as historical context. They visited Olana, Church's home near Hudson in Columbia County, and Sunnyside, Washington Irving's home in Irvington. The participants also took a riverboat trip on the Hudson and visited Kaaterskill Falls, a once popular tourist destination near Haines Falls in Greene County. Their study of 19th-century artists also took them to the Albany Institute of History and Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the New-York Historical Society, both in Manhattan.
 
Weekly Themes
 Several participants said that spending time on the river and in the area had enhanced their appreciation and understanding of the works they were studying.
"I had never thought much about the geography of the region," said Dr. Casper, the historian from the University of Nevada. "By looking at the river itself, by looking at the ways people shaped the land, I got a much better sense of this very real region and the paintings and writings that deal with it. If you don't actually see and experience the region, you think about the writings very differently."
The institute had a different theme each week. The first week, the professors studied the Dutch and English Colonial periods before the Revolutionary War. The focus was on material culture, examining furnishings and portrait paintings of early Dutch landholders. The second week covered the emergence of American literature and American landscape art in the 1820's.
Next, professors explored the cultural meanings of tourism in the early 19th century. This was a period of growing urbanization in America and a time when people who had the money to get out of the cities did so, Dr. Peck said. The Catskills were one of the first tourist destinations and were representative of emerging modern life. An entire session was spent talking about the Catskill Mountain House, a famous resort at that time near the Kaaterskill Falls. The building has since burned down, but the professors visited the site of the resort.
In the final week, they studied the literature of James Fenimore Cooper and the paintings of Cole. In the work of both are warnings about America's emerging imperialism and moral emptiness, Dr. Peck said.
"We really did prove to ourselves through the course of our study that the Hudson River Valley provided a paradigm for a national culture," Dr. Peck said. "That was immensely gratifying on the intellectual side. On the human side of it, there was a real richness in the kind of bonding that took place among the scholarly community. It was an extraordinary experience that left everyone feeling rewarded."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Ryan, above at right and at left facing camera, leading college professors in the American Culture Program during tour of Olana, Frederic E. Church's home. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VASSAR COLLEGE AMERICA'S FIRST CREDIT UNION (54%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VASSAR COLLEGE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUDSON VALLEY (NY) UNITED STATES (97%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HISTORY (90%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); WRITERS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); 

PERSON: LOMBARDI, KATE STONE

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



48 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Moment, and Ours

BYLINE: By James Fallows; James Fallows, Washington editor of The Atlantic Monthly, is author of a forthcoming book about Asia, "Looking at the Sun."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
By the time an ill George Bush collapsed into Kiichi Miyazawa's lap in Tokyo 18 months ago, it was easy to imagine that Mr. Bush and his Republican Government might be out of power soon. It was hard for anyone to foresee that Mr. Miyazawa's Liberal Democratic Party would be headed the same way. Yet two months of political turmoil have apparently insured that the insurgent Morihiro Hosokawa will become Japan's first non-L.D.P. prime minister since 1955.
Where the turmoil will finally lead turns on whether Japan can do anything about the fundamental oddity of its postwar regime: the combination of a very strong Government and very weak political control. 
 The Japanese Government famously intervenes at countless levels of society, applying formal and informal controls to everything from bank-lending policy to the number of non-Japanese teachers allowed in universities and schools. Yet there is virtually no feedback loop allowing the public to register its views about the Government's behavior.
Prime ministers come and go with no detectable impact on the country's policies. The consequential decisions are made and carried out by well-trained and often nationalist bureaucrats in the major ministries -- Finance, Education, Construction, Transportation, International Trade.
At a gross level, this system has clearly won popular assent. One inch below the surface of public grumbling about tiny houses, inflated prices and corrupt politics is widespread recognition that Japan's strategy has worked. It has made the country powerful, and although living standards are modest they keep going up.
But many groups feel that they have been shortchanged for the sake of national growth. These include urban consumers, women in general and students forced into a conformist mold. Japan's brand of political gridlock has kept the standard of living artificially low, generating chronic trade and savings surpluses. America's kind of gridlock has of course done the reverse.
A transformation of Japanese politics that created a feedback loop, giving the public more say about the country's priorities, might not solve all economic conflicts or turn Japan into a Western-style democracy. But a more democratic Japan would certainly be easier for the rest of the world to deal with. How can we tell whether it's on the way? Here are three rules of thumb while following the news from Japan:
1. Smile when you say "reformer." The American press has largely portrayed many anti-L.D.P. politicians as "reformers" or "young Turks." This may be a plausible description of Mr. Hosokawa himself, who started the challenge to the Liberal Democrats last year. But most members of his coalition could more realistically be called "disgruntled party hacks."
One of the most prominent, Tsutomu Hata, now declares himself shocked, just shocked to find that an "iron triangle" of bureaucrats, industries and corrupt politicians runs Japan. During his long years with the L.D.P., Mr. Hata pooh-poohed the idea that the economy was controlled in any way. In the late 1980's, he memorably opposed letting foreign beef into Japan because, he claimed, the average Japanese citizen's "unique" intestinal tract could not handle it. Ichiro Ozawa, another leading "rebel," is a veteran L.D.P. power broker who recently jumped ship.
Some of Japan's new politicians have pushed real reform plans. For example, Yoshio Terasawa of Mr. Hosokawa's New Party has proposed removing Finance Ministry regulations that now make the Tokyo Stock Exchange a rigged market.
Japanese history is full of people who radically changed their roles with changing times; think of Emperor Hirohito's emergence as a meek biologist after World War II. By acting as if this really were a coalition of reformers, the outside world might make reform more likely. But let's not fool ourselves about who these people are.
2. Don't hold your breath. American commentators often wonder how Japan can be called a success when most Japanese live so poorly. The answer is that its industries have succeeded largely because of the constraints on consumers.
For decades, the nation's resources have been channeled away from individuals and toward industrial investment, which in turn produces more output than Japan's strapped consumers can buy. This structurally depressed demand is the single biggest reason for Japan's huge and chronic trade surplus. A Japan with real political competition would have a harder time imposing these limits on its people -- which is why any step away from the L.D.P. monopoly is ultimately good news.
But it may not be good news any time soon. The big loser in this month's election was the anti-business Japan Socialist Party, not the L.D.P. Conservatives in a broad, pro-business sense control more of the Diet than before. The seven anti-L.D.P. parties that have formed a coalition to select a prime minister agree on very little. Their new Government's main goal will be to enact changes in the gerrymandered electoral system and then call new elections, in hopes of making real inroads against the Liberal Democrats.
It could be many years before a strong elected leadership can get the upper hand on the bureaucrats. The trick for the outside world is to keep two time scales in mind at once. In the long run, it can allow itself to hope for a less lopsided, less export-driven structure in Japan. But in the short run, it should gird for even fiercer competition from Japanese industries, since, Mr. Hosokawa aside, there is no sign yet of a shift in national emphasis.
Americans should also recall how often they have overestimated the chance of deep political change in Japan. A U.S. magazine published a special issue on how affluence, youth culture, the women's movement and international awareness were transforming Japan. The magazine was Life, and the issue was published in 1964.
3. Face the terror of the empty page. For 40 years, U.S. policy toward Japan has often been frustrating and complicated -- but it has been conceptually easy, since the central point was so clear. The main goal was to keep Japan from "going Communist" or siding with the Soviets, and the first step toward doing so was to prop up the Liberal Democratic Party.
The party, for all its foibles, was committed to a military relationship with the U.S., while its main opponent, the Socialists, threatened to kick American soldiers out. As recently as last year, officials describing President Bush's trip to Tokyo said that one purpose was to show support for the L.D.P.
Now the U.S. enjoys a luxury it has not had in half a century: near-total freedom to rethink relations with Japan. There is no possibility that Japan will go Communist, and no Soviet bloc for it to join. The fledgling emergence of mainstream alternatives to the L.D.P. reduces the air of fragility in U.S.-Japan relations -- the fear that if anything changed, Japan would have to choose between the leftists and a new militarist regime.
In theory, the Clinton Administration could use this moment, while Japan is otherwise engaged, to re-think ways of maximizing American interests in Asia. Most countries in the region would prefer that the U.S. maintain its military presence. Surely America can use this and other forms of leverage for better-balanced economic relations, starting with Japan. Conceiving a policy from scratch is more troublesome than continuing on autopilot. But it is far more valuable in the long run, and there will never be a better chance.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (68%); TRENDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FALLOWS, JAMES GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



49 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 13; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Two Conflicts Between Historic Preservation and Develpment

BYLINE: by LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
THE debate over the preservation of historic buildings and the contemporary pressure to develop is heating up at two sites on Long Island.
In the Village of Huntington, a farmhouse dating from 1830 has become a source of dispute between Huntington Hospital and residents. The hospital, which owns the vacant house, is seeking approval from the Town Board to move it so that a parking lot can be built on the site. But residents oppose the move, saying they want to save the town's historic character. 
 In the Village of Amityville a vacated Gothic house built before the Civil War is also in jeopardy. The house is in disrepair, and its new owners, who want to develop the site, question whether it can be saved.
The Huntington farmhouse, known as the Adams House, after the family that lived there for many years, is on the National and State Registers of Historic Places and has been designated a national and local landmark. Because of that, Town Board approval is required to move, alter or demolish it.
In contrast, the Baldwin-Hilbert House in Amityville, named for the two families who occupied it from 1840 to recently, has no state or Federal restrictions. The historian of the Town of Oyster Bay, Dorothy Horton McGee, said that an application for landmark status was made in 1977, but that the process was never completed.
"We're not sure what happened," she said, "but the landmark designation was never made."
 
5 Partners Buy House
 The house, a sprawling white structure on Merrick Road in West Amityville, was bought by five partners last year under the name of the Tollgate Land Improvement Company. The name comes from the original tollgate house that once stood on the site.
The lawyer for the Hilbert family estate, Richard Handler, said the house dated from 1830 or 1840 and was owned and inhabited by the Baldwin family until 1930, when it was sold to Kenneth Hilbert, a veterinarian.
Mr. Handler, a former president of the Amityville Historical Society, said the property was especially significant historically because it stood on the dividing line between New York City and Suffolk before Nassau became a separate county
South Turnpike, now known as Merrick Road, was built in the colonial era, and maps from 1820 show the tollhouse was on the site, Mr. Handler said. One wall of the tollhouse was kept as part of the house.
When Nassau became a county in 1899, the property became the border between the two counties. Although the house is in Nassau and under the jurisdiction of the Town of Oyster Bay, it is served by an Amityville post office and is in the Amityville school district, which is in Suffolk.
The house, Mr. Handler said, "is one of the last best examples of Gothic architecture that was modernized in the 1880's to give it a Victorian flavor."
"But it was a sad story of an elderly couple with a beautiful old home and too many problems keeping it," he added. "The property outlived its usefulness, and the Hilberts became victims of a tax system gone wild, with all their finances going to pay the taxes and the property falling into disrepair."
If restored, Mr. Handler said, the house "would be a magnificent example of a Gothic Revival Victorian structure. But it may not be economically feasible, and the new owners may be forced to demolish the house."
One partner, Jerry O'Neill, said the new owners were studying how to use the two-and-a half-acre site, which includes commercial and residential zoning. "We would like to keep the house as part of any project," Mr. O'Neill said, "but won't know if it's feasible until we investigate further."
One option is a condominium project for the elderly, in which the house might be restored as an administration or recreation building, Mr. O'Neill said, adding that the proposal would require a zoning amendment by the Oyster Bay Town Board allowing higher-density housing.
Another partner is Mr. Hilbert's son Stuart, who grew up in the house and who owns a garden center next to it. He said many of his customers had declared that they would chain themselves to the building if anyone tried to demolish it.
Mr. Handler said people in Amityville had a great historic consciousness and wanted to maintain the historic flavor of the town. "The owners of the property are sensitive to the needs of the residents," he said. "But they are also business people and must face economic realities."
The saltbox farmhouse in Huntington Village, on Park Avenue adjacent to the front lawn of the hospital, is also significant as an example of late-19th-century settlement architecture, said the town historian, Rufus Langhans. Its features include clapboard sheathing, frieze windows, a central chimney and small-pane windows. The house is one of two in the village that exhibits unusual four-bay plans, Mr. Langhans said.
When the last owner died, three years ago, the Hospital bought the house from the estate, with the idea of demolishing it and building a parking lot. But its landmark status prevented demolition, Mr. Langhans said, and the hospital recently applied to the Town Board to move it to a site half a mile away in the historic district.
A spokeswoman for the hospital, Helen Dudkewic, said by moving the house the hospital could add 72 badly needed parking spots. The hospital now has 717 parking spaces.
"We are a community-based hospital and are sensitive to the concerns of the residents," Ms. Dudkewic said. "We think this plan offers a solution that allows us to preserve the house and to meet a need of the hospital."
Mr. Langhans said the fate of the Adams House had become an emotional issue for many residents. "We are interested in protecting the historic flavor of this town," he said. "When we look at the historic value of the house, the site is as important as the house itself."
He said there was also concern that part of the house would be destroyed in a move, adding: "There are clearly other options for the hospital, including a multilevel parking lot or using an existing lot several blocks away and providing shuttle service. We don't want to have our historic district taken over by pavement."
The chairman of the Huntington Historical Preservation Commission, Raymond S. O'Riordan, said the house preceded the hospital by 87 years and should not pose any threat to the existence and viability of the hospital.
"Being sworn to uphold Huntington's laws concerning how to best conserve, protect and perpetuate our town's wonderful historic heritage," he said, "the Historic Commission had no choice but to officially oppose this danger-ridden plan to relocate the Adams House."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gothic house, above, built before Civil War in Amityville, and a farmhouse built in 1830 in the Village of Huntington. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ADAMS HOUSE HEALTHCARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AMITYVILLE (NY); HUNTINGTON VILLAGE (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC SITES (92%); HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



50 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 4; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: IN SHORT: NONFICTION

BYLINE: By Bill Sharp

 BODY:

ENVIRONMENTALISM
SHOWDOWN AT OPAL CREEK
The Battle for
America's Last Wilderness.
By David Seideman.
Carroll & Graf, $22.95. 
 A lifelong Oregon logger, Tom Hirons, puts the quandary of preserving ancient forest simply: "The question is, can man extract what he needs without ruining it?" Mr. Hirons has spent many of his recent years opposing preservation, fighting an environmental group led by his longtime close friend George Atiyeh. In "Showdown at Opal Creek," David Seideman, a reporter for Time magazine, brings the divergent pressures of economic and environmental issues down to a personal level through the lives of these two passionate people, driven apart by the old-growth controversy. Do we preserve the last stands of massive old-growth forests, home to species like the spotted owl, or do we cut them down, losing an ecosystem but keeping loggers employed at least a little while longer? Mr. Seideman provides abundant information about the forestry industry and the Government that regulates it. He tells anecdotes galore about the people around Opal Creek, Ore. Where the author slips is in leaning occasionally toward his own passion for preservation. The strength of this work is not trumpeting the "right" cause, but portraying the pain felt by people torn between worthy causes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SHOWDOWN AT OPAL CREEK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (79%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); WILDERNESS (78%); WRITERS (75%); 

PERSON: SHARP, BILL; SEIDEMAN, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993



51 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: President Stands By Investing in America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Administration strongly agrees with your July 26 editorial that the President's proposed investments in our people, businesses and communities are, like his deficit reduction plan, essential to long-term economic and job growth. 
 We also agree that these investments are critical to make his program fundamentally different from President Bush's 1990 budget agreement. There are other important contrasts -- most notably, the economic and spending forecasts we have used, as well as the specific spending cuts the President has proposed.
As to the investments contained in the budget reconciliation bill nearing final approval in Congress:
* The House-passed bill retained the key investments in the President's plan -- the earned income tax credit, empowerment zones, hunger-relief measures, immunization, family preservation and incentives for business investment.
* The Senate-passed bill contains some of these investments.
* While the result will be a compromise, the President has insisted on keeping a good portion of the investments in the conference agreement.
The greater part of the President's proposed investments are contained in his five-year plan for discretionary spending. These are in areas like education, infrastructure, nutrition, environment, housing, defense conversion and law enforcement. They are paid for by savings in low-priority or wasteful discretionary spending.
In the appropriations process for fiscal year 1994 very tight budget caps at first left practically no room for our investments. Yet Congress, working with the Administration, is making enough spending cuts beyond those originally proposed by the President to provide room for close to 60 percent of those investments.
The outlook for 1995-98, is even better -- despite the freeze Congress has imposed on all discretionary spending. If Congress adopts only our proposed spending cuts for those years, there will be room, on average, for nearly two-thirds of the President's investments. With further cuts there will be room for even more of the investments.
Republicans are opposing every one of these investments to protect the wealthy from paying even $1 in higher taxes to contribute to deficit reduction. They prefer the status quo to any serious effort to confront our social and economic problems.
But the President is specifying areas of public and private investment to reverse economic decline and restart growth. He is also focusing Congress on making choices between old spending and new priorities, so that we increase investment without mindlessly increasing the size of government.
 
LEON E. PANETTA
Director
Office of Management and Budget
Washington, July 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INCOME TAX (54%); 

PERSON: PANETTA, LEON E (DIR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LEON E PANETTA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



52 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Still Solid, G.O.P. Opposition To Clinton May Soon Soften

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1

 BODY:
Toward the end of this week, all 219 Republican members of Congress will line up against President Clinton's budget bill. It may be the last time they are this united in the 103d Congress.
A posture of relentless opposition has served the Republicans well when it is focused on big issues, like the budget plan's tax increases, or even the economic stimulus bill. Buttressed by sincere economic beliefs, it reassures their natural supporters and scores political points with swing voters. 
 "To the degree that people think we are opposing bad ideas out of principle, I think it helps us a lot," said Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the deputy leader of the 175 House Republicans. He said support for Republicans on the tax issue had turned up sharply.
"We're finally talking about an issue that is a defining issue for the Republican Party," said one of the most partisan of the 44 Senate Republicans, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, "and that is tax and spend."
 
'Guardians of Gridlock'?
 But unanimous House votes on many bills and frequent Senate filibusters bother some party moderates, and even some conservatives who fear that they have not made their case well. Opposition to the national service bill based on its "fine print" failed to justify itself, said Senator Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon, who helped kill the party's filibuster against the measure.
Not everyone agrees. When Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the Democratic whip, calls Republicans "guardians of gridlock," Mr. Gramm replies that the Democrats think that "gridlock is the lock on the smokehouse door" and that they want to get at the pork hanging there. And Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, the third-ranking House Republican, said, "Long term, I think people will realize gridlock might have saved them from what looks like an impending economic disaster."
But even Mr. Gingrich said that his party had not done well enough in explaining its frequent opposition. "If people believe it is being done for petty reasons, then it's bad," he said. "They want Washington to work."
And Senator William S. Cohen of Maine, who joined Mr. Hatfield in ending last week's delaying action on the national service bill, said, "I think the filibuster ought to be used selectively, on the very biggest-ticket items."
Concern over appearing obstructionist, which was manifested day after day last week when Republican senators stared up at the press gallery and demanded that reporters not call their filibuster a filibuster, is only one reason why the seemingly unremitting Republican rejection of Clinton Administration proposals is likely to end.
Perhaps the most important other reason is a shifting legislative agenda. If the North American Free Trade Agreement comes before Congress in the fall, Mr. Clinton can expect "his strongest support is going to come from Republicans, not only because we believe in it, but because we are willing to support the Administration when it is right," said a Senate moderate, John H. Chafee of Rhode Island.
Mr. Gingrich cited the President's proposal to toughen procedures for aliens trying to gain political asylum. He said that he and the party's Senate leaders, Bob Dole of Kansas and Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, had agreed "to do everything we can to pass his new immigration legislation."
Another reason Republicans will be tempted to abandon purity of ideology, and even political advantage, is the prospect of helping to shape national policy. Representative Jim Leach of Iowa insisted that a basically conservative party like his had no "choice but to be unified against tax increases of the magnitude that Clinton has proposed."
But, he said, if Republicans are not part of the action, "then all negotiations take place between the far left and the moderate left," and the result is worse for the country than if Republicans took part.
Universally, Republicans say it was Mr. Clinton's decision to exclude them, not their decision to stay away.
Representative Sherwood Boehlert from the Finger Lakes region in New York, one of three Republicans who voted for the economic stimulus bill, said, "If Republicans had been brought into the process early, no question that the majority would have opted out, but a lot of Republicans might have looked with favor on a package that was developed in consultation with them."
Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri said that if unified Senate Republicans and a few Democrats defeated the reconciliation bill this week, then "we have to sit down in good faith with members of the Administration and try to work out something in good faith."
 
Wary of a Trap
 Some Senate Republicans reject that idea as a trap that would beguile them into supporting tax increases. But Mr. Leach said Republicans were involved then a capital gains tax cut "would be on the table." And Mr. Chafee said, "The final solution will have to have some taxes." He added, "If you're going to go through the mine field, it's better to go through together."
Some Republicans spurn collaboration, and argue that opposition on major issues is sufficient, so long as Republicans "have an intellectually responsible alternative," as Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio put it.
Mr. Kasich, who offered an alternative budget in the House last spring, foresees a similar response on health. Other Republicans, like Mr. Cohen and Mr. Chafee, would prefer to work with the Clinton Administration, depending, of course, on what it proposes.
Republicans say they have opposed Mr. Clinton out of principle, not to score points. Mr. Danforth said, "This is not a plot, with Republicans sitting around trying to do in the President."
An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released last week showed that 64 percent of the public said Republicans opposed the President's economic plan not because they had an alternative but "for political reasons."
The survey of 1,006 adults, taken by Peter Hart and Bob Teeter last week, showed that 48 percent of the public said Mr. Clinton was more serious about reducing the deficit than were the Republicans, while 34 percent said the Republicans were more serious. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Boren Changes His Mind
 WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 (Special to The New York Times) -- Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma, the conservative Democrat whose mercurial support has given President Clinton's budget package its one-vote edge in the Senate, changed his mind today and declared himself unshakeably against the measure.
"If we're going to ask the taxpayers to pay $250 billion more in taxes, we need to be able to look them in the eye and honestly say we've cut all the spending we can," Mr. Boren said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "I don't think we have."
Vice President Al Gore, appearing with Mr. Boren, said, "We haven't counted on Senator Boren for quite some time."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); PHIL GRAMM (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



53 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE'S CURRENCY CRISIS;
Tokyo Hectic In Response To Europe

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, August 2

 BODY:
A desultory morning of currency trading exploded here early today after European governments mounted another attempt to rescue the European Monetary System, with the German mark soaring in value amid extremely nervous speculation.
Foreign exchange traders used to quiet Monday mornings here said that initially the market had been slow and edgy as the monetary officials met in Brussels in an effort to calm the latest currency crisis. But shortly after news services flashed word that several European currencies would be permitted to fluctuate in a wider band of values, furious bidding began. 
 The chief beneficiary of the activity was the German mark, which had risen sharply most of last week. The dollar fell to a low of 1.7240 marks at mid-morning here, down from 1.742 marks in New York late Friday. In late afternoon trading, the the dollar rebounded to 1.7310 marks.
 
 
Mark Rises Against Franc
 Against the French franc, the focus of most trading last week, the mark rose to 3.4850 francs early today here, compared with 3.4292 francs in late trading on Friday.
The dollar slipped slightly against the yen in late trading here, dropping to 104.55 yen from 104.65 yen in New York late Friday.
"Everything broke loose as soon as the news flashed from Europe," said Laurent Depus of Chase Manhattan Bank in Tokyo. "It was very hectic. But it was short-term flows, not customers taking big positions."
Mr. Depus and several other traders added that, at least initially, there were no indications of central bank intervention in the market.
But by late morning the Bank of Japan was said to be intervening to buy dollars in an attempt to brake the yen's steep rise. The yen now trading at its highest levels of the postwar era and, some economists warn, could slow Japan's economic recovery.
 "Frankly, most traders are a bit confused about the real implications of the new move," said Kazutera Tanaka, head of currency trading at the Bank of Tokyo. "A lot of speculators are watching. It's very nervous and turnover is not huge."
Japanese stocks moved lower today. With an hour left in session trading, the the Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 79.91 points, or nearly four-tenths of a percent, at 20,300.23.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (52%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; GERMANY; FRANCE EUROPE (97%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (95%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



54 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Europe's Currency Crisis
European Community officials agreed to let their currencies fluctuate by as much as 15 percent -- a far wider margin than was allowed for the last 14 years -- in an effort to save the remnants of the European Monetary System. Finance ministers and central bankers said the measure was temporary and would not nullify plans to achieve a common European currency. [Page A1.]
Japanese currency trading exploded into frenzied activity after word of the new plan to save the European Monetary System. The German mark soared in value in trading. [D8.] 
 The European move is a severe political blow to France, but many experts think that is just what the nation's faltering economy needs.[D8.]
Influential financier George Soros denied that he took part in last week's selloff of the French franc but declined to describe his current role in the currency market. [D1.]
Individual investors should not try to profit from the crisis in Europe, professionals advise. [D8.]
 
The Economy
A hot August and an early frost may cause more damage to Midwest farmers than recent flooding. [A1.]
Some Republicans in Congress are concerned about their growing reputation as "guardians of gridlock."[A1.]
General Motors, Ford and Chrysler are walking a tightrope as they report big profits and negotiate new union contracts. [D1.]
Many malls are rushing to join the movement to ban smoking in public places. [A1.]
 
Companies
The chairman and most of the board members of Louisiana Blue Cross and Blue Shield have been forced to resign by the state's Insurance Commission. [A1.]
Bethlehem Steel promised steelworkers a seat on its board and better pensions to avoid a strike. The accord also entitles the union to take control of assets if the company defaults on its promises. [D1.]
Microsoft has hired a small team of supercomputer engineers to help create a class of computing devices that will control future digital television sets and other consumer appliances. [D1.]
I.B.M. and Dell are moving to carve out distinctive niches in the market for personal computers. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
The ever-expanding film and television industry is proving a bright spot in an otherwise gloomy California economy. [D1.]
Spanish-language broadcasters have begun a lobbying effort that, if successful, could unleash millions of dollars of financing to radio station owners. [D6.]
The Bobbsey Twins may finally make it to television and film through an agreement between Paramount Publishing and New York Production Partners. [D6.]
Barry Diller would face big hurdles in building a new network. Bill Carter: Television. [D6.]
General Mills promotes a cereal "made to eat with your fingers." Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Europe's problems may be good news for some international bond traders. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D5.]
Golfers invent more devices than the players of any other sport. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
Zebra Technologies finds a "perplexing" downside in its prosperity. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); GIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); PARAMOUNT PUBLISHING (51%); GENERAL MILLS INC (50%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CURRENCIES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (86%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (85%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BONDS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); SMOKING BANS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); LOBBYING (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); STRIKES (70%); INSURANCE (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (67%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (67%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (62%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (54%); BARRY DILLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



55 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE'S CURRENCY CRISIS;
Financier Denies Role In the Currency Crisis

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
While European ministers struggled in Brussels to save the European Monetary System, George Soros lounged by the pool at his Southampton, L.I., home yesterday, portraying himself as an elder statesman among foreign exchange traders and not a speculator out to make another huge profit from a currency crisis.
"Exactly because I don't want to drive the markets crazy, I am not going to say what I am doing," Mr. Soros said in a telephone interview. 
 For years he has been a hugely successful money manager and investor, but the $1 billion that he reportedly made in just a few days in September by betting against the British pound has turned him into a guru -- and his investments are mimicked across the world.
Mr. Soros insisted that whatever he had been doing -- if anything -- during the latest crisis for the European Monetary System, he did not start doing it until last Friday at noon, New York time. So he had not made any money speculating that the French franc, the victim currency this time, would continue to fall in value. Since Friday noon, he noted, the value of the franc has hardly moved up or down against other currencies.
"I am a great believer in Europe and in having the system, and participants ought to care about preserving the system and not just making a profit for themselves," said Mr. Soros, who grew up in Hungary.
 
Planning to Stay on L.I.
 The 62-year-old financier had told Le Figaro, the French daily, early last week that he had refrained from speculating against the franc because he did not want to destroy the European Monetary System. And with currency traders driving down the value of the franc on Thursday, Mr. Soros went that evening to his Long Island home. He plans to remain there into this week, trying, he said, to be an elder statesman rather than a trader.
"There has to be a modification of the European Monetary System," Mr. Soros said, referring to the system that ties the value of nine European currencies to one another, with the German mark as the dominant one. "Either there has to be a floating of the currencies or a readjustment of the exchange rates or a broadening of the band" in which each currency can rise or fall.
After hours of deliberation, European finance ministers and central bankers, meeting in Brussels, announced last night that they had agreed to broaden the band. Mr. Soros said he was not impressed.
"The wider band will help the French to lower interest rates, but if they don't lower interest rates now, they will have the worst of all possible worlds, which means currency instability and continued recession," Mr. Soros said.
The British, in fact, lowered rates and devalued the pound last September, after currency traders began to sell pounds in huge amounts, betting that the British currency could not keep pace with the mark, mainly because the Germans resisted lowering interest rates to make their own currency less attractive vis-a-vis the pound. Speculating with huge sums in that selloff, Mr. Soros came away a huge winner.
 
Further Abstention Unneeded
 Until noon last Friday, Mr. Soros and the operations he directs, the Soros Fund Management and the Quantum Fund, had carefully refrained from trying to duplicate the feat. But in a statement issued then in New York, he said that further abstention would be futile because the European Monetary System had been broken by the German failure to concern itself with the needs of its European partners.
Did that answer mean that Mr. Soros had traded since Friday noon or had not? "No comment," he said yesterday.
Did he think that being so influential a trader, he should withdraw from currency markets during crises that threatened the European Community?
"It is my business to trade, it is my role, it is my professional activity," Mr. Soros replied. "I could not carry on managing a fund if I did not take positions in stocks, bonds and currencies. So I took a position in Newmont mines and look what happened."
The Newmont episode, coming in April -- seven months after his success with the British pound -- made Mr. Soros very acquainted with his new influence. He bought a stake in Newmont Mining, mainly a gold-mining company, and that produced a rally in the price of gold and gold-mining stocks. Also in April he became involved in a British real estate venture, and that set off a rally in British real estate stocks.
Then in June, a Soros letter in The Times of London said the German mark was bound to fall, and it did just that for a while.
Although the Europeans came up with a different solution last night, Mr. Soros said he would prefer for the mark to float, thus helping the Germans through their own economic difficulties as they try to unify the economy of the former East Germany with that of the West.
"I think it is the German mark that should float and not the other currencies," Mr. Soros said, adding that if the mark floated it would probably go up and then come down, "very much as the dollar did during the Reagan Administration."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The huge sum that he made in a few days last September during an earlier currency crisis has turned George Soros, the Wall Street financier, into a guru -- and his investments are mimicked worldwide. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); BELGIUM (91%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); BELGIUM (91%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); GERMAN MARK (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; SOROS, GEORGE GEORGE SOROS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



56 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: STRICTLY BUSINESS;
Entrepreneurs Pave Path For the Next Generation

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
A thriving population of black entrepreneurs prospering in business has been a dream since the days of Booker T. Washington. These hopes, however, have been a dream deferred.
But for some successful entrepreneurs, the dream remains alive, and a few have taken it upon themselves to guide the young. 
 "The next generation should be the generation of entrepreneurs," said Frank Savage, one of the success stories. Mr. Savage is chairman of the Equitable Capital Management Corporation and former head of Freedom National Bank, a black-owned institution that was closed by regulators in 1990.
He said black businessmen are urgently needed as role models. One who fits that mold is Michael Vann, a part owner of the Shark Bar at 307 Amsterdam Avenue. The establishment combines excellent recorded music, soul food and a laid-back appearance, and has attracted celebrities like Denzel Washington, Naomi Campbell and Michael Jordan.
 
The Entrepreneur's Path

Normally, it is not a breakfast spot. But the other morning, more than a dozen teen-age guests devoured heaping plates of pancakes. These youths had all been convicted of serious crimes, but because of their age they had been placed on probation rather than sent to prison.
Trying to offer a different path, Mr. Vann preached the promise of entrepreneurship, saying it had worked for him. "I could never be satisfied until I became my own boss," he said.
The son of a steelworker and a legal secretary in Gary, Ind., Mr. Vann, 35, began several steps ahead of most of those in his audience, and was able to build a successful career in fashion and restaurants. Celebrity contacts he had built as a maitre d'hotel at B. Smith's Restaurant in midtown Manhattan helped persuade the two initial owners of the Shark Bar to bring him in as a partner.
To some in the audience, it all sounded like life on another planet. "You're making it sound like it was easy," said one teen-ager. "But black people don't have no opportunities. We live in projects and ghettos."
Mr. Vann repeatedly said he planned to put his money where his mouth was. He told one probationer, an artist, that he might pay him to design a T-shirt logo for Soul to Go, his takeout division. He told all the teen-agers he would welcome them in an apprenticeship program that he hoped to build once he began Soul to Go franchise outlets.
This struck a responsive chord. "I want to work legitimately," said another teen-ager. "I'll do anything."
 
Changing Attitudes
 Vernon Manley, assistant commissioner of New York City's probation department, said this sort of statement is the beginning of the miracle he seeks. "When they get turned onto an idea," he said, "it can change the whole direction of their lives."
Entrepreneurship as a life-changing idea is the mission of Steve Mariotti, founder and president of the six-year-old National Foundation for Teaching Entrepreneurship, a nonprofit organization based in Manhattan. The foundation, which has a $2.5 million annual budget, grew out of his experiences as a special education teacher in the South Bronx.
He said his average student had a deplorable academic record, little athletic ability and an empty social life. Accordingly, most saw themselves at the bottom of every totem pole. "That's a very brutal way to think of yourself," Mr. Mariotti said.
His idea was for them to forget how they ranked with other people, and instead to think of other people as a potential market to whom they might sell things.
"Their sense of self grew dramatically," he said. "The actual sentence structures in the human psyche begins to change when you view yourself as an entrepreneur."
Mr. Mariotti's program, which now reaches 2,500 high-school-age young people a year in eight cities, involves teaching basics like the definition of marking up prices and elementary record-keeping. But the most eye-opening exercise, he said, is when each student is given small amounts of money -- a first installment of $50 and a second of $75 -- with which to start a business.
Most buy flea-market goods or other trinkets from wholesalers they have visited as a class. About 15 percent are able to maintain their businesses over the long term. Success stories in the Bronx include Josephine Reneau, who made $28,000 selling lingerie; Mike Freeman, who sold $17,000 of electronic equipment, and John Emmanuel, who posted sales of $200 a week selling cologne.
Mr. Mariotti suggests that many disadvantaged youths have the talent for success. An ability to deal with stress and ambiguity, the staples of many of their lives, he said, is also the key to business survival.
"Nobody at Goldman, Sachs will have gone through what they've gone through in the past year," he said.
But business is far from easy, particularly for novitiates. Edward T. Lewis, chairman of Essence Communications, one of the nation's largest black-owned enterprises, warned that only those with unusual perseverance and vision would make it truly big as entrepreneurs.
"It's not about fancy cars or clothes or things like that," he said. "It's about serving a need in the marketplace that is not being served at the moment."
Some aspirants hardly make it past the front door. Mr. Vann said that one probationer he hired for an entry-level job showed up for work erratically, then offered glib excuses to try to cover for his mistakes. He dismissed him.
By contrast, several years ago Mr. Vann hired Andre Smith, who he knew had been imprisoned for a year on drug charges. Starting as a busboy, Mr. Smith, 28, is now a chief steward, with assistant manager most likely to be his next title. Ultimately, Mr. Vann wants his protege to become an owner of one of his soul food franchises.
That thought seems to sit well with Mr. Smith. "I wouldn't mind being my own boss," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Vann, left, an owner of the Shark Bar at 307 Amsterdam Avenue, preaches the promise of entrepreneurship. With him was Andre Smith, whom he hired as a busboy. Mr. Smith, who had been imprisoned for a year on drug charges, is now chief steward and likely to become assistant manager. (Debra DiPeso for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: B SMITH'S (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS (IN US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP (93%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); CELEBRITIES (88%); PROBATION (87%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); FRANCHISING (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (64%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MUSIC (54%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS DENZEL WASHINGTON (78%); MICHAEL JORDAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



57 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Perot's Alternative Budget Plan: Attack and Dodge Specifics

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1

 BODY:
For ordinary politicians, Ross Perot's performance on television this morning might have spelled political disaster.
While he was in his usual fighting form as he bashed President Clinton's economic program, Mr. Perot looked uninformed and uncomfortable, as he was unable to answer even the most basic questions about his own alternative. 
 How would he get the $141 billion of savings in Medicare and Medicaid programs that his plan promises? Rather than even try to answer, Mr. Perot, appearing on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," repeatedly admonished his questioners for not alerting him in advance to their "complex questions."
 
'Sneak Attacks'
 "Don't you think that it would have been responsible for you to call me and say, 'Ross, I'm going to ask you this question, bring all your stuff?' " he asked David Broder of The Washington Post, accusing him and his fellow panelists of "sneak attacks" and "gotcha" questions.
The Sunday public affairs programs often challenge politicians trying to dodge reporters' questions while hoping to persuade the audience that they are giving direct answers. Even by that standard, Mr. Perot's gloss-over-the-details approach during his television blitz against the President's economic plan this weekend left his questioners exasperated and his viewers knowing little about his proposals.
But if past performance is any judge, Mr. Perot, who said the true reason for his television appearances was to help publicize a telethon for the Midwest flood victims, may emerge from the weekend only emboldened by the free attention.
Mr. Perot managed to win 19 percent of the vote in last year's Presidential race by offering little in the way of specifics, and polls show he has hung on to a core group of supporters who seem to be suspicious of Government and the inside-the-Beltway pundits like the people who quizzed him today.
 
'Shallow Sound Bite Politician'
 "If you took ordinary elected public officials and they were on 'Meet the Press' and they came up with those kind of answers they'd get blown out of the water," said James Thurber, a professor of government at American University. "But Ross Perot's different. He seems not to be able to alienate his supporters with broadsides against the President and no specifics. He gets away with it because he's not responsible to a legislative body or to a constituency."
While opinions are divided on Mr. Perot's ability to move public opinion, White House officials know that his attacks will only hinder their efforts to pass an economic program whose support is shaky at best. So they are spending hours putting out rebuttals to Mr. Perot's criticisms.
Offering a harsh review of Mr. Perot's performance this morning, James Carville, a political adviser to Mr. Clinton, said in an interview: "It was a very significant event in the history of Ross Perot because now everybody's going to want to ask him tough questions and say he doesn't have any answers. I thought the man was exposed as a shallow sound bite politician. In no way, shape or form was it a good morning for him. He should have gone to church."
But Mr. Carville knows never to underestimate Mr. Perot's political strength. "Were his supporters sitting with bated breath watching 'Meet the Press?' " he asked. "No."
Mr. Perot's message was that the White House proposal does not constitute real change. On the CNN program "Inside Politics," Mr. Perot said, "I'm just saying it's bad for the country and bad politics to push this deal through."
His objection has been that since Mr. Clinton does not "have the stomach" to balance the budget, it would make more sense for the White House and Congress to go back to the drawing board.
 
Seen as Obstructionist?
 Once again, Mr. Perot was unable to put forth specifics. "Now," he said, "if it were my job to produce the plan for the Congress to balance the budget, we would produce the plan to balance the budget."
The risk for Mr. Perot, of course, is that some of his core supporters may begin viewing him as an obstructionist. A poll released last week by The Wall Street Journal and NBC News found that a majority of Americans think Mr. Perot is criticizing the President for political reasons.
Seeking to refute such a notion, Mr. Perot sought to depict himself on "Meet the Press" as a concerned American who is being victimized by news organizations that are in cahoots with the White House: "This is, you know, the White House war room, who is feeding the press, saying, 'For God sakes, take him away from the core issue of how do you balance the budget and ask him about his plan and here are the questions to ask.' "
Gearing his message to the true believers who have grown distrustful of the Washington power elite, Mr. Perot turned straight to the camera and advised, "Folks, don't be scared by all this hot air."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC) NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); MEDICAID (57%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC) MEDICAID (57%); MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TELEVISION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MEDICARE (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); MEDICAID (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



58 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Count Raczynski, 101, Diplomat Who Served Poland in Wartime

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Count Edward Raczynski, a Polish diplomat who was Foreign Minister in the Polish Government-in-exile in London during part of the Nazi occupation of his homeland in World War II, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 101.
The cause was cardiac arrest, said his nephew Richard Rodzinski of Fort Worth. He said Count Raczynski, whose eyesight had failed years before, had been dictating some reminiscences until three days before his death and then grew weaker. 
 Count Razcynski (pronounced ra-CHEEN-skee) was the Polish Ambassador to Britain from 1934 to 1945 and a prominent figure in the diplomacy of the last days before World War II.
While continuing as Ambassador, he also served as Acting Foreign Minister in the exile Government in 1941 and 1942 and as Minister of State in charge of foreign affairs in 1942 and 1943.
 
Signed Pact With Britain
 Earlier, it was the Count who, as Ambassador to Britain, signed the Aug. 25, 1939, treaty in which Britain guaranteed assistance to Poland against German aggression. The London Daily Telegraph observed yesterday that he had "worked smoothly to bring off the Anglo-Polish alliance."
On Sept. 1, 1939, Nazi Germany invaded Poland and World War II began. On Sept. 3, Britain declared war on Germany, and all the British Commonwealth countries, except Ireland, quickly followed suit.
In July 1945, the Count was informed by the British Government that it no longer recognized him and his Government, still based in London, which had been supported by the Western allies in World War II.
The British shift was a consequence of the Yalta Conference earlier that year, at which the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union had agreed on recognizing a reorganized form of the rival Polish Government that was supported by the Soviet Union.
The Count went on to be President of the anti-Communist Polish Government-in-exile in London from 1979 to 1986. The current Polish President, Lech Walesa, visited him in London in 1991.
Count Edward Bernard Andre Maria Racszynski was born Dec. 19, 1891, into a landowning family that had established a sumptuous library in the Polish city of Poznan. He studied at the universities of Cracow and Leipzig and the London School of Economics.
He began his diplomatic career in 1919 and served in Copenhagen, London and Warsaw. He was a delegate to the Geneva Disarmament Conference from 1932 to 1934 and concurrently was accredited to the League of Nations, with the rank of Minister, before becoming Ambassador to Britain.
 
Diaries Are Published
 A volume of his World War II diaries, "In Allied London," was published in English in the United States in 1965. He also wrote two books of reminiscences and other works that appeared only in Polish.
He married JoyousMarkham in 1925 and she died in 1930. He married Cecile Jaroszynska in 1932 and she died in 1962.
Count Raczynski is survived by his third wife, the former Aniela Mieczyslawska, whom he married in 1991; three daughters from his second marriage, Wanda Dembinska and Catherine Raczynska, both of London, and Countess Wiridiana Rey of Paris; and three grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Count Edward Raczynski (The New York Times, 1939)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: POLAND (98%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (78%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (97%); WARSAW, POLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (58%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (54%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (54%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (98%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (78%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (97%); WARSAW, POLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LONGEVITY DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); WORLD WAR II (94%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); ACCREDITATION (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: RACZYNSKI, EDWARD (COUNT); PACE, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



59 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Finding Good in Europe's Woes

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
For some international bond managers, the turmoil in the European Monetary System is the best news they have had in some time. And the changes agreed to last night in the troubled system of linked currencies would probably increase their returns.
"I think it would be good for us," said Sam Forester, the president of Templeton Global Bond Managers in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., which has $2 billion invested in bonds worldwide. 
 Money managers said that the changes in the system would open the way for short and intermediate interest rates to fall.
This would lead to sharp rises in prices, which move in the opposite direction of yields, and very nice capital gains at a time when the American bond market is promising less return in the near future because interest rates are already at or near their lowest in two decades or more.
 
It Happened Last Fall
 This kind of currency-crisis gain has already happened: last fall when the European Monetary System was severely wounded by a series of devaluations and the abrupt withdrawal of Britain and Italy. But because there was confidence ahead of the crisis that the system could withstand turmoil, many portfolio managers did not benefit because they were not protected against the losses from the sharp currency swings that followed, including dollar appreciation.
But this year could be different. "We are more convinced than ever that rates have to decline in Europe," said Mr. Forester. And, he added, last year "we did not properly evaluate the strains that were developing in the individual countries and that pressures would build up and cause a breakup of the system." He added, "This year we have a better understanding of the risk."
The reason a realignment of the European Monetary System, like the one announced early today in Brussels, would open the door to lower interest rates is this: the system has forced a lot of European countries, like France, to keep their interest rates much higher than their sluggish economies and their worried politicians wanted. Until it withdrew last fall, Britain was in the same bind.
 
Contributing to the Strain
 In the system, the fact that currencies are linked in fixed trading ranges means governments must keep their interest rate levels close to their neighbors. If not, their currencies will breech the trading ranges.
The first among neighbors in the E.M.S. is Germany, the largest and strongest economy. It has been the refusal of the German central bank, the Bundesbank, to bring down interest rates faster that has helped create a lot of the tension in the monetary system over the last year. But the fact that the performances of many of the economies in Europe have been diverging on inflation and other barometers also contributed to strains both last year and last week.
Still, it was the surprising decision by the Bundesbank on Thursday not to lower its important discount rate -- which would have taken pressure of the French franc and other currencies -- that brought the monetary system to the the point at which a breakup could delight money managers holding European bonds.
But there are strong caveats for American investors. One is that with a fall in interest rates in Europe, the dollar may rise. If this happens a lot of the gains in the bond markets on the Continent could be wiped out by a loss when francs or lire, for example, are turned back into dollars.
 
'Selective Rallies'
 This means that a fund should be hedging against such currency moves, although the cost does reduce potential returns. Mr. Forester said he had hedged about 75 percent of his exposure to European bonds.
A second concern is which bond markets an investor is in. Larry Daly, the senior portfolio manager for Putnam's Global Government Income Trust, a $500 million fund with 55 percent of its funds in Europe, said "there will be selective rallies; you have to be in the right countries."
He said that some countries, like Britain, have had most of their rally. This is because interest rates have been able to fall since the Government of Prime Minister John Major bolted the European Monetary System last year.
Mr. Daly likes the bond markets in France, Denmark and Spain. And he prefers maturities of from three months to five years, which he argues are prone to fall because they have been held so artificially high. He said that longer-term interest rates had already come down in most countries so they are not as good a bet.
In the American bond market, there also ought to be some positive ripples from the turmoil in Europe. The lower interest rates that would follow a monetary system breakup would make the dollar stronger by making it more attractive to investors. That would bring foreigners who would buy short term Treasury notes.
But what lift there is in the United States will be nothing compared with the wave in Europe if the interest rates are finally allowed to fall at a pace that struggling political leaders would like.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (72%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: TEMPLETON GLOBAL BOND MANAGERS INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (72%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



60 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Two Converging Cases Tear At Divisions in Los Angeles

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 1

 BODY:
Two racially charged trials intersect here this week: a Federal judge is scheduled to sentence two white police officers convicted in the beating of a black motorist, Rodney G. King, and a state judge is to begin interviewing prospective jurors in the case of two black men charged with beating a white truck driver in last year's riots.
The two cases, offering legal and emotional counterpoints in black and white, have come to symbolize the divisions and resentments that have kept Los Angeles on edge since the city flared into violence 15 months ago. 
 Some blacks in the South-Central area, the flash point of the riots, are pointing again to perceived racial inequities in the courts and reviving the slogan "No justice, no peace." But in much of the rest of Los Angeles, many people are turning away from the continuing problems of the inner city, simply hoping for peace.
One prospective juror in the state case, asked whether a three-month trial would be a hardship, answered: "Does hardship include personal prejudice? I'm sick and tired of crime. I watch the news every night, and it would be difficult for me to be neutral."
 
Little Sentencing Discretion
 In the Federal case, most people in the city agree that a measure of justice has been served. Sgt. Stacey C. Koon and Officer Laurence M. Powell were convicted in April of depriving Mr. King of his civil rights in a videotaped beating that followed a traffic stop in March 1991. Legal experts say Federal guidelines make it all but certain that on Wednesday Judge John G. Davies of Federal District Court will sentence both to a substantial portion of the maximum term of 10 years.
The two other defendants, Officer Theodore J. Briseno and former Officer Timothy E. Wind, were acquitted in the Federal trial. All four officers had been acquitted of assault charges in a state trial one year earlier, touching off the rioting that took more than 50 lives and cost the city nearly $1 billion.
Prosecutors say it was on the day of that acquittal, April 29, 1992, that Damian Williams, 20, and Keith Watson, 28, beat Reginald O. Denny, a truck driver. The incident was filmed by a television news team and by amateurs with video cameras.
 
Highly Charged Atmosphere
 Within the next few days, the police arrested four men in the beating, including Mr. Williams and Mr. Watson, and charged them with attempted murder, torture, aggravated mayhem, assault and other crimes. They have been held ever since on bails ranging up to $580,000 for Mr. Williams, and three face possible life terms in prison. Two have had their cases severed from the others and face separate proceedings. Another three men have since been arrested in the beating.
In the highly charged atmosphere that followed the riots, the original four defendants became symbols of what their supporters, mostly in South-Central Los Angeles, saw as an unjust judicial system that had freed four white officers in one beating and heaped heavy charges and high bail on four young black men in another.
The black men were dubbed the L.A. Four, and despite the brutality shown on the videotapes, they have become heroic symbols of oppression to some people. Many young black men see in them the representation of their own rough treatment at the hands of the police and the courts.
Legal experts argue that the two cases are not mirror images, since the officers were authorized by law to use force on an arrested suspect, as long as it was not excessive.
 
No Mood for Subtleties
 But Peter Arenella, a law professor at the University of California at Los Angeles, said: "The legal distinctions do not make much difference to a community that accurately perceives the racism all around them. If the officers are given maybe a year in jail and the Denny defendants get 20 or 30 years, that discrepancy itself is going to trigger a great deal of anger."
This is just what Michael Mason, a 21-year-old South-Central resident who has had brushes with the law, said could lead to trouble. "I don't see any difference between the L.A. Four and the L.A.P.D.," Mr. Mason, a student at Los Angeles Community College, said last week. "I feel like they are singling out these guys for what was going on, like I guess they are going to be the example of the riot."
But he said there was little likelihood of more rioting, if only because the police are now so much better prepared. "Everybody knows that if there is some type of riot there will be bloodshed," Mr. Mason said.
Legally, Mr. Arenella said, the case of the beating of Mr. Denny is so straightforward that it would normally have been resolved by plea bargains long ago. "But given the political symbolism attached to it, it might make it impossible for both sides to avoid a trial," he said.
 
Bloody Video Montage
 Deputy District Attorney Janet Moore, told reporters: "The community needs to hear this evidence. They need to see the facts in the case. We want to show the community they can have fairness in the judicial process."
Mr. Williams and Mr. Watson are accused of attacking nearly a dozen people near the intersection of Florence and Normandie Avenues in the first hours of the rioting. The central piece of evidence against them is a 42-minute montage of videotapes that one defense lawyer has claimed is so bloody that it will inflame a jury.
Similar evidence has led three of the seven men arrested in the attacks to plead guilty or no contest.
Mr. Williams, an unemployed high school dropout who had played some semiprofessional football, is shown smashing a brick into the head of the already bloodied Mr. Denny, then dancing a jig of triumph.
According to the indictment, he had already assaulted six other people, including two firefighters, with stones, bottles, bricks and a stereo speaker and had sprayed black paint on the stomach and genitals of a Hispanic man. He faces one charge of attempted murder and one charge of aggravated mayhem, both involving Mr. Denny, six charges of assault with a deadly weapon and two charges of robbery.
 
Variety of Felonies Charged
 Mr. Watson is charged with one count of attempted murder, two counts of assault with a deadly weapon and one count of robbery.
The third defendant, Antoine Miller, will be tried separately on a charge of attempted murder, five counts of assault with a deadly weapon, two counts of robbery and other charges. He is shown on the tape dragging Mr. Denny from his truck but is not shown beating him.
The fourth of the original defendants, Gary Williams, is shown picking the pocket of the injured Mr. Denny. He has pleaded guilty to robbery.
In the final pending case, Lance Parker, 27, is accused of firing a shotgun at Mr. Denny's truck and at people in a gasoline station, and other felonies.
Lawyers for Mr. Williams and Mr. Watson have not conceded that the defendants are the men shown on the videotape, and they contend that the most serious charges require proof not only of the defendants' actions but of their states of mind.
 
Victim Asks for Remorse
 They say that there was no attempt to murder Mr. Denny but that the defendants were part of a wild, mindless mob. They also claim that Mr. Denny's injuries were not serious enough to warrant aggravated mayhem charges.
Mr. Denny, whose life was saved by a brain operation, has been under doctors' care since the attack. His lawyer, Johnnie L. Cochrane, says he suffered a fractured skull and "over 90 broken bones in his face."
In an interview this week on "CBS This Morning," Mr. Denny said he only hoped for some remorse from his attackers, "not necessarily a long time in jail; that is not what I wish to see happen." The generosity of his remark drew an outpouring of condemnation from callers to a radio talk show, who said remorse was not enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); BLACKS (IN US); TRIALS; POLICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ASSAULTS SENTENCING (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RIOTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUDGES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); ACQUITTAL (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); ARRESTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); JURY DUTY (78%); MURDER (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; KING, RODNEY GLEN; DENNY, REGINALD

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



61 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1905 words

HEADLINE: Ginsburg's Spirit Is Echoed by Other Pioneers

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
In the years that Ruth Bader Ginsburg was rejected by law firms although she had graduated first in her 1959 Columbia Law School class, Muriel F. Siebert was told that she would be hired as a securities analyst only if she wore white gloves and a hat in the elevator. At the same time, Maria Iandolo New collected rejections from medical schools because she had the temerity to marry.
As Judge Ginsburg nears confirmation by the Senate as a Supreme Court Justice, her long road to eminence echoes the experience of a generation of women who embarked on careers in a pre-feminist era, before they had an ideology to justify their actions and a movement to open doors that were shut to them.
 
Hearings Revive Memories
 And many say the barriers remain formidable, although open discrimination is now illegal, thanks in part to the work of Judge Ginsburg. Ms. Siebert went on to become the first woman to buy a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, and Dr. New ended up as the first woman to head a department at Cornell University Medical College, where she is chief of pediatrics. 
 Judge Ginsburg's confirmation hearings and the articles about the discrimination she endured brought back memories. "She touched such deep chords in me," said Ms. Siebert, who is 60. "We had no role models, and it was lonely."
They are among a group of largely unsung women who, for reasons they cannot even now fully explain, were driven to take an uncharted path. They were contemporaries of Betty Friedan, but they were not at first open crusaders for women's rights. Not content in the roles society deemed acceptable for women of their day, they quietly entered fields dominated by men and worked their way to the top of their professions.
 
'Impertinent Young Lady'
 They all shared a lifetime of being the first, the only, the one who stood out in the room. And they were all shaped by an era in which a lady did not do what they were doing, and certainly would never complain out loud.
Dr. New, who is 64, can still recite the letter she received from the dean of the University of Rochester's medical school in 1950 after her husband had been invited for an interview, and she had not. She had written the dean asking that he not reject her just because she was married and pointing out that she actually had the better academic record.
"You are an impertinent young lady," the dean replied, "and I am more sure than ever that we do not want you in our medical school."
Seven years later, Madeleine M. Kunin, then a student at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism, was offered a job in the cafeteria rather than the newsroom of The New York Times. Later, another newspaper turned down her application because, an editor told her, the last woman hired had been raped in the paper's parking lot.
 
Assuming the Responsibility
 "You sort of took the responsibility on yourself instead of saying, 'Why don't you make the parking lot safer?' " said Ms. Kunin, who in 1984 became Vermont's first female Governor and is now, at 59, the nation's Deputy Education Secretary.
Some women faced the double bind of sex and race. When Constance Baker Motley, a young lawyer working on school desegregation cases in the early 1950's for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, tried to enter the New York City Bar Association's library, the doorman looked her up and down. She assured him she was, in fact, a member, and told him her name.
"I carefully said Mrs. Motley, because black women were always addressed by their first name," she said.
He told her, "Oh, right this way, Constance."
Judge Motley later became the first woman to serve a full term in the New York State Senate and in 1966, the first black woman appointed as a Federal judge, to the Federal District Court in Manhattan, where she still presides at 72. But she says that for years she was not given the same opportunities as men to serve on committees or speak at conferences, activities that build judges' careers.
 
Bucking the Convention
 As they looked back on their lives, many women said it was hard now to recapture the atmosphere of their early career years, when they were bucking the convention that women stayed at home and reared children.
"I got married at a time when it was felt that if a woman worked, it reflected her husband's failure," said Luisa Kreisberg, who is 59 and president of the Kreisberg Group, a marketing and public relations firm specializing in the arts.
Jill Ker Conway, who became the first female president of Smith College in 1975, used to pretend at parties in her native Australia in the late 1950's that she was not a young professor, but a secretary. She was not ashamed, she said, it was just "my way of saving having to spend the time explaining what I was doing."
Requirements for femininity had not changed much even by 1971, when Dr. Felicia H. Stewart arrived at the University of California at San Francisco's Medical Center as the first female resident in 12 years. An older female doctor took her aside and gave her some advice.
"No matter what time of night or day, I should be absolutely certain my hair was immaculate and my makeup was complete and my nails were perfect," said Dr. Stewart, 50, who was one of a handful of women in her Harvard Medical School class of 1969 and is now an authority on birth control.
 
Roadblocks for the Many
 Such pressures often had the insidious effect of causing women to lower their own sights.
Nancy H. Teeters, now 63, was a promising economics student at Oberlin College in 1952, but she said she never even considered a career. "I thought I'd do what everyone else was doing: get married and support my husband through graduate school," she said. It was not until her in-laws offered to pay for her education that she began her career in economics. Twenty-six years later, she became the first woman to be a governor of the Federal Reserve Board.
For every woman who broke through such barriers and had a successful career, there were many more who could not. Andrea Dupree, an eminent astronomer and senior scientist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, told of several women approaching her wistfully at a reunion of her Wellesley College class of 1960. Now that they were divorced, they said, they wished they had pursued a career. One, despite her degree, was working at a discount store.
Even those women who were clearly successful in their fields had to put up with indignities, constrained in part by an ethos that women should not be confrontational.
 
Striving to Be Heard
 "I behaved the way I was taught to behave: like a woman in the company of men," said Mildred S. Dresselhaus, 62, an engineer and solid-state physicist who became the first woman to be tenured in the engineering department of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1968. "If you behaved aggressively in the company of men, they wouldn't accept you."
Many said they felt all but invisible.
"I think it is the person who is different from anybody else in the group who has a more difficult time in being heard," said Ellen A. Peters, 63, who did not receive a single job offer from a law firm despite graduating first in her class at Yale Law School in 1954. Ten years after those rejections, she became the first woman to be a tenured professor at Yale Law School. She has been Chief Justice of Connecticut's Supreme Court since 1984.
In striving to be heard, many women were labeled unfeminine. "I remember having a more senior professor say to me, 'You're almost as assertive as a man,' " said Professor Dupree, who is 53. "And that was in 1960. Now I'm shy and retiring by comparison with the younger generation."
Relatively outspoken as she might have been, Professor Dupree remembered having to gather her courage to fight the one battle most commonly cited by women who managed to enter their chosen fields: being paid and promoted as much as their male colleagues. Her supervisors told her that she was paid less because she had a husband to support her.
 
Anger Fuels Change
 Concessions to pregnancy and child rearing were rare. Like many other women of her day, Professor Dresselhaus hid her pregnancies as best she could and returned to work a day or two after her children were born. "The guys didn't even notice there was a change," she said.
Others negotiated part-time work and accepted that they would advance more slowly for a while. The rules at the Federal Reserve in 1959 required Mrs. Teeters, then a staff member, to resign once she was three months pregnant. Instead, she eked out a six-week maternity leave combining her sick days and vacation and worked flexible hours for several years at the Federal Reserve and elsewhere.
For many women, as for Judge Ginsburg, anger and a commitment to change conditions for the women who followed them came gradually, a slow burn that paralleled in some ways the growth of feminism. They watched, as Professor Conway put it, their private battles became public ones.
"The most amazing thing about it was that we didn't recognize these incidents to be what they were," Dr. Stewart said. "They just seemed normal. It took me a long time to find a place in my soul for outrage."
Once inside institutions, many women worked to pave the way for others. Professor Dresselhaus and several colleagues pushed M.I.T. to admit women equally instead of continuing to admit only as many as could fit into a small boarding house where the women lived. When Mrs. Teeters became a governor at the Federal Reserve, she noticed that many women were not rising beyond a certain level and she won promotions for several of them.
 
Worries About Attitudes
 "Once you entered a new place, you were in fact making it easier for the next person," Ms. Kunin said. "Making the unusual acceptable, that gives one courage and great satisfaction."
That sense of delight at their accomplishments overshadowed for many women any memories of slights. Others, like Ms. Siebert, relish the battle scars that they say have made them tougher and more willing to take risks.
Ms. Siebert often takes younger women to task because, she believes, they do not appreciate how hard things were. "Unless you stand up and be active, you're going to lose a lot of the things we fought for," she said she tells them.
Others look askance at women who ask for flexible hours so they can work and rear families, saying that it undermines the hard-won progress of an earlier generation. But many others say they admire younger women for being more willing to speak out. "My daughters are far more open in their criticism and their frustrations about discrimination," Dr. New said. "I'm very optimistic about the new young people."
Few of these women are complacent, because they see a younger generation struggling with many of the same problems that beset them.
"It's not over," Dr. New said. At her first meeting with other clinical department chiefs, one looked at her and said, "Are you the new secretary?" She simply said no, and sat down.
"I don't know how to end it except to be very, very good, and that's it," Dr. New said. "So I keep my nose to the grindstone and do my work."
Professor Dupree still looks around and finds herself the only woman in the room. "We're designing a new spacecraft to be launched and there are no women," she said. "Where are they? I wonder. I worry."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrea Dupree; Astronomer -- "I remember having a more senior professor say to me, 'You're almost as assertive as a man.' And that was in 1960. Now I'm shy and retiring by comparison with the younger generation." (Christopher Fitzgerald for The New York Times); Constance Baker Motley; Federal District Judge -- Upon entering the Bar Association Library in the 1950's, "I carefully said Mrs. Motley, because black women were always addressed by their first name." The doorman said, "Oh, right this way, Constance." (Steve Miller for The New York Times); Maria Iandolo New; Chairman of Pediatrics at the New York Hospital -- "My daughters are far more open in their criticism and their frustrations about discrimination. I'm very optimistic about the new young people." ( Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. A1); "I thought I'd do what everyone else was doing: get married and support my husband through graduate school," said Nancy H. Teeters, who had not considered a career. It was not until her in-laws offered to pay for her education that she began her career. Twenty-six years later, Mrs. Teeters, shown with her husband, Robert, became the first woman to be a governor of the Federal Reserve Board. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; FEMINIST MOVEMENT LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); LAW LIBRARIES (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); MEN (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); JOURNALISM (61%); 

PERSON: GINSBURG, RUTH BADER (JUDGE); CHIRA, SUSAN RUTH BADER GINSBURG (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



62 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
A Caterer Gets a Taste Of Film Industry's Feast

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 27

 BODY:
A few years ago, Shari Brown's catering business was floundering. The local economy was in a tailspin, and calls to cater parties and weddings, her specialty, were so few that she could no longer afford full-time employees.
So Ms. Brown, a trained chef, responded to a newspaper advertisement seeking a caterer for film production work, and her business, the Reel Edible Occasion, has been thriving ever since. Half her business now comes from feeding the cast and crew of movies, television shows, videos and commercials. She now has 10 full-time employees. 
 "No matter how bad the economy, the film industry always seems to have money," said Ms. Brown, who is 30. "And the nice thing is that the work is not just for one day. It's for weeks or months, depending on the project, and that has allowed me to keep a full-time staff."
Ms. Brown has catered for the "Wonder Years" television show and recently fed for a week the 30-member production crew working on an exercise video for Cosmopolitan magazine. She is currently providing food for a production crew for two weeks, and business is so good that her husband, Daniel, recently quit his job to work with her.
 
Benefiting From Boom
 Reel Edible is one of thousands of small businesses that are benefiting from a boom in film production.
A recent report by the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles County found that the film industry is in many ways a business of small businesses. There are 183 companies in Los Angeles providing set design, construction, rentals, stages, story board artists and set sketchers, according to the report.
About 750 companies provide casting directors, stunt coordinators or precision drivers, or support services like catering, casting of extras, location scouting and weather services, the report said. And there are about 1,700 companies that provide other services and equipment crucial to Hollywood, including props, wardrobe, boats, cars, cameras and pyrotechnics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; CATERING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CATERING SERVICES (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); MOVIE CASTING (76%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); TRENDS (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (63%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; BROWN, SHARI

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



63 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
An Economic Hooray for Hollywood

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 27

 BODY:
Known more for glitz and glamour than for the jobs and commerce that it creates, the ever-expanding film and television industry is emerging as a bright spot in an otherwise gloomy economy here.
With some $8 billion in revenues last year, the film and television industry has become the leading producer of jobs in the Los Angeles area, eclipsing aerospace, real estate and tourism, which are all in decline. 
 More filming takes place in the Los Angeles area in a day than occurs in most other cities in a year. On a typical day, at least 40 production companies are filming movies, television shows, documentaries and commercials on the streets here, and the number is expected to increase.
Of the 480 feature films that were shot in the United States last year, 319, or 67 percent, were filmed entirely or partly in California, the California Film Commission says. And about 75 percent of all film production in California takes place in Los Angeles. This concentration of work is occurring despite the vigorous efforts of other North American cities to lure film productions with assurances of lower costs.
Local economic development experts now look to the film industry, which includes all aspects of television and motion picture production, to help the city's economy.
"The film business stands out as a stellar performer among California industries, where job declines are persistent almost across the board, with some at double digits," said Lyn Reaser, chief economist for the First Interstate Bank. "The motion picture industry's image had always been bigger than reality, but to the extent that it is helping attract tourists and strengthening other markets, it is one of the few points of light in this bleak economy."
Most major studios in Los Angeles plan to expand production to meet growing demand from markets like television, videocassettes and interactive media, and from international markets, which apparently have an insatiable appetite for Hollywood entertainment.
In May, the latest month for which statistics were available, the Los Angeles film industry employed 103,000 people, an increase of 12,000 from May 1992. It was the fifth straight month that film employment had increased, with most of these jobs going to crew members. In contrast, Los Angeles had a net loss of 70,000 jobs in May, with 33,000 jobs eliminated in the aerospace and high-technology sectors alone.
 
Supports Other Industries
 The film industry's contribution to the local economy goes far beyond these jobs: Hollywood has become a driver for other industries as well.
Each film production company spends at least $15,000 a day on everything from film permits and police supervision to catering and location rentals. A significant number of trucking companies, commercial caterers, dry cleaners, apparel stores, landscapers, equipment rental outlets and building contractors do much of their business with the industry.
The film industry is also intricately linked with tourism. Much of the lure of Los Angeles is that it is the home of movie stars; many tourists seem to expect to run into famous actors, and many go on studio tours.
Yet for all its clout, the film industry and its exact impact are extremely difficult to measure because the industry is so sprawling and diverse. At its heart are the major studios -- like 20th Century Fox, Universal, Columbia, Walt Disney and Warner Brothers -- surrounded by dozens of smaller production companies and businesses that are not easily identifiable, but are still part of the industry.
A recent study by the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles County concluded that every dollar spent by the industry was worth about $2.30 to the local economy. By that measure, film production spending has a total annual impact of about $18.5 billion, the development agency said.
"The linkages between the film industry and other sectors of this economy should not be underestimated," said Jack Kyser, the chief economist for the development agency. "If you are looking for a point of light in the local economy, here it is."
Despite Hollywood's growing importance to the local economy and the optimistic forecasts for growth, the industry's future is being threatened by high production costs and a regulatory morass.
While Los Angeles offers a vast supply of actors, writers, technicians, suppliers, musicians, locations and favorable weather, some producers have abandoned the city for other cities like Dallas, Chicago, Miami and Vancouver, British Columbia, where there are fewer charges and fewer restrictions.
Industry analysts have warned that if producers continue to move projects to other cities, the economic loss to Los Angeles could be devastating. State and local officials need to do more to assist film companies in dealing with regulations and resolving disputes, the analysts say. Many homeowners, for example, complain that film-making increases traffic congestion, noise and pollution and degrades property values.
 
Not in My Backyard
 "The city needs to raise the consciousness level of people in the community as to the importance of filming to this economy," said Charles M. Weisenberg, director of the motion picture and television division of the Board of Public Works for Los Angeles. "The public needs to realize that you might be temporarily inconvenienced because a movie is being shot near your house, but that movie will create jobs and economic activity."
Mr. Weisenberg said Los Angeles residents had conflicting thoughts on the film industry. "On the one hand Angelenos revel in the fact their city is known as motion picture capital of the world," he said, "but they really don't afford it the respect it deserves."
Lisa Rawlins, vice president for studio and production affairs at Warner Brothers and a former state film commissioner, said many municipalities in the Los Angeles area do not issue filming permits in a timely fashion, frustrating productions working on a tight deadline. She said many communities were inflexible on requests for filming in their neighborhoods, even when it would have a minimal impact.
"Most filming here is handled by a bureaucracy and there is no commitment by city councils or government leaders to foster this industry that creates so many jobs," she said.
In some respects, Los Angeles cannot provide the same red-carpet treatment used by many other cities to lure production companies. Among the other cities' enticements are police supervision, helicopters to scout locations, hotel and restaurant discounts, and closings of highways and streets for filming.
 Government officials here said that because of the large amount of filming in Los Angeles it was impossible for the city to match these offers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the set of "Beethoven's 2nd" in Los Angeles, top, the film's production crew and extras break for lunch. Vivian McAteer, bottom left, a hair stylist, grooms actor Christopher Penn. Louis Lara, bottom right, of the Command Performance catering service, provides lunch for the film's cast and crew. (Photographs by Bart Barthlomew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FIRST INTERSTATE BANK OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; REAL ESTATE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); FILM (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TOURISM (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); CATERING SERVICES (62%); TRUCKING (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



64 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Big Three Tell Labor the Glass Is Half Empty

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 1

 BODY:
When General Motors, Ford and Chrysler last week collectively reported profits of $2.34 billion for the second quarter, they found themselves walking a tightrope.
The Big Three want to persuade bankers and investors that they have cut costs and capitalized on the recovering demand for automobiles and that their recession-ravaged treasuries are on the mend. At the same time, auto executives must persuade the United Automobile Workers union, with which they are negotiating new contracts, that the glass is still more than half empty. 
 "How can you tell one story to Wall Street and another to the union?" asked Sean McAlinden, a labor economist at the University of Michigan. "They look like they're talking out of both sides of their mouth, and they are."
The union is demanding improved compensation for its workers and retirees and an end to the erosion of jobs. Even tough times, the union says, is no reason for workers to suffer. "This is a volatile and cyclical industry and always has been," said Frank Joyce, a spokesman for the union.
The auto makers counter that their costs are uncompetitive in an industry that is increasingly global and nonunion, particularly the cost of health care and income security provisions, which guarantee workers their salaries whether they are working or not. That means that during slack periods and model changeovers the companies incur substantial employment costs.
Fortunately for the U.A.W., the Big Three appear eager to avoid a strike, which would negate hard-won gains that they have made since spring, when demand started to pick up. Ford and Chrysler have gained substantial market share at the expense of their Japanese rivals, while G.M. has at least stopped losing its share of the market.
If any Big Three assembly lines suddenly were idled by a strike, Nissan, Toyota and Honda stand ready to fill orders from their American plants, which are nonunion. The Japanese companies combined have more than two million units of capacity in the United States.
Honda, particularly, would like nothing more than to kick off its newly designed 1994 Accord against a Ford Taurus that was in short supply. The first of the new Accords will roll off the assembly line in Marysville, Ohio, in September. The cars have fought in recent years for the title of the best-selling car in the United States. In January the Taurus took the prize from the Accord for 1992 sales.
At some point in the negotiations, the U.A.W. designates one company a so-called "strike target," seeking a contract there that becomes a model for the two others. Each of the Big Three has declared its willingness to be the target this time. In setting the industrywide pattern, the target company has the opportunity to negotiate provisions that address its specific needs.
General Motors, for example, has unused plant capacity and many laid-off workers, so it wants to avoid expensive income-security provisions, which have cost it $3.35 billion during the current three-year contract. Ford and Chrysler have no unused capacity, so either might presumably be willing to agree to income-security provisions in return for, say, a break on health care benefits.
But having reported a second-quarter profit of $889 million, can G.M. credibly claim that it cannot afford income-security benefits as comprehensive as those in the last contract?
It certainly will try. G.M., the largest auto maker in the world, lost billions of dollars during a three-year slump, and has not regained its financial strength, experts generally acknowledged. And savvy union leaders must know it, too.
 
G.M. Wants to Be Picked
 So eager is General Motors to define the labor contract for the industry that it has told the U.A.W. it might save some of the 54,000 union jobs it plans to cut by the mid-1990's in return for being named the target. Moving some production of Cavaliers to a U.A.W. plant in Lansing, Mich., from Mexico earlier this year was interpreted in some quarters as a move that improved the company's chance to be the target.
As far as the health-care costs go, the Big Three companies are in the same leaky boat. Ford spent $1.5 billion on health care in 1992, Chrysler spent $815 million and G.M. spent $3.7 billion.
Co-payments and deductibles have been imposed on the auto makers' white-collar work force, but the U.A.W. has insisted that any demand to trim benefits from its coverage -- which pays all medical expenses other than visits to doctors' offices -- is grounds for a strike.
The auto makers and the union want the Government to impose a solution to rising health care costs. Until that happens, if ever, both sides are discussing mutually agreeable ways to control costs. Mr. McAlinden, the labor economist, said he had heard the union might offer to drop future cost-of-living allowances in return for keeping full health care coverage, with no co-payments by workers and no deductibles.
The auto makers have also been considering an industrywide health-maintenance organization, which presumably would be far less expensive than traditional health insurance, even with the lower rates mandated by preferred-provider networks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; CONTRACTS; FINANCES COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); STRIKES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (71%); MARKET SHARE (69%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



65 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: THE MIDWEST FLOODING;
Beyond the Flood, Farmers Worry About Drought and an Early Frost

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 31

 BODY:
For all the damage that flooding and drenching rains have caused in the Midwest, most farmers and agribusiness in general are feeling more threatened by weather of a very different sort.
A dry or very hot August followed by an early frost, they worry, could do far more damage than the flooding. The problem is that spring crops were planted late across most of the Midwest because of a late harvest last year and spring storms. For millions of acres of corn, August heat could interfere with the crucial pollination process. And both corn and soybeans, the two most important crops in the region, will not have fully matured by the prime harvest time. 
 "It will take a massive miracle to avoid major crop losses to frost," said William W. Biederman, vice president in charge of research for Allendale Inc., an agricultural products brokerage and consulting firm in Crystal Lake, Ill.
 
 
Troubles Beyond the Flood Zone
 With the Mississippi and its rebellious tributaries continuing to breach levees and flood tens of thousands of acres of prime Midwest farmland, the immediate hazards of more rainfall are obvious. Even beyond the flood plains, millions of acres of crop land are heavily pocked with newly formed ponds or are so sodden that the people who farm them expect to produce a fraction of their normal harvest even if the weather improves.
So far, though, much of the crop damage has been offset by ideal growing conditions in the eastern Corn Belt, from central Illinois to Ohio. Many farmers there are enjoying higher prices, and total farm income for the nation may well end up close to the earliest projections for the 1993 crop.
"There's near-record potential in the eastern Midwest, and most farmers are better off than in the drought of 1988," said Jerry Warner, who oversees the management of 3,800 farms in Midwestern and Western states for the National Farmers Company in Omaha. Mr. Warner foresees only a 10 percent decline in the total output of the farms his company manages.
That assessment squares with the outlook at John Deere & Company, the largest maker of farm equipment. "We have pockets where sales have ground to a standstill, but they are up enough in other areas to average out," said Gordon Tjelmeland, a company spokesman. "So far, we haven't changed our sales projections or production schedule."
 
 
Effect of an Early Frost
 Analysts say the weather damage to date, including a severe drought in parts of the Southeast, may eventually push consumer food prices up 1 percent. So far, though, the upward pressure has been limited by huge stocks of many agricultural products and the availability of imports. But an early onset of wintry conditions could have a wider impact on crop yields than the rain and would send prices up sharply.
"Food inflation could go to 3 percent with a bad frost in September," said John McMillin, who follows the big food processors for Prudential Securities.
The sense of heightened risk -- and, for some, the opportunity to profit from price swings -- has sent prices bouncing upward and trading volumes soaring at institutions like the Chicago Board of Trade, which handles futures and options contracts on farm products. And lenders already made cautious by the crash of the agricultural economy in the mid-1980's have begun to tighten up on credit.
Farmers generally fear drought more than excess rain, a wisdom embodied in the saying "rain makes grain," and a glance at the dry Southeast shows why. As of mid-July, Georgia cotton yields were projected to be down 45 percent, corn down 42 percent, peanuts off 40 percent and soybeans off 66 percent, according to recent survey by the Georgia Farm Bureau, which has 215,000 farmer members. In addition, heat has killed more than a million broiler chickens and reduced milk production from cattle.
Iowa provides a striking contrast. Although the entire state has been declared a disaster area, more than three-fourths of its corn and soybeans were rated in fair to good condition earlier this month.
The line between prosperity and tragedy can be abrupt in the farm belt. Dennis Nelson, who farms 1,800 acres at Kewanee, Ill., in between the parts of the state that have fared well and those that have been too wet, says his corn crop has a chance to surpass last year's record production. Not far away, neighbors have lost 30 percent of their land to flooding creeks, he said.
Nature's fickleness appears even more starkly in the Cape Girardeau region of Missouri, where some farmers are losing part of their crop to the Mississippi while others' farmland is bone dry. Roger Schwab, a Jackson, Mo., farmer, became a local celebrity last month when he was seen on a national news program irrigating one part of a field while another portion was under water.
"It's been nearly a month since we had a decent rain," said Bob Nitsch, a neighbor of Mr. Schwab. Mr. Nitsch is currently harvesting alfalfa from a field so parched that the earth is cracked, but has already lost to flooding half the 160 acres of corn and soybeans he planted closer to the Mississippi River.
Farmers outside the flood zones are already starting to profit from their good fortune. Lamar Fesser and his son Bryan, who is busy helping to sandbag levees at a friend's farm along the Mississippi, are using options and contracts for future delivery to lock in soybean prices an average of 25 percent higher than last year's for slightly less than half of the large crop they have maturing 45 miles southeast of Springfield, Ill. They have also been selling corn held over from the 1992 harvest at prices 5 to 10 percent higher than they would have gotten last year.
"This year looks very good for us," Mr. Fesser said.
The impact of weather on prices varies from crop to crop. In the case of wheat, Mr. McMillin of Prudential Securities said, the weather has interfered with harvesting what had promised to be a huge crop.
 
 
Between Grain Prices and Heat
 Higher grain prices are bad news for livestock producers and should eventually raise beef and pork prices. Poultry producers are caught between the higher grain prices and heat stress on their flocks in the Southeast. Meat consumers might first see price cuts, though, as producers decide to sell rather than feed animals, creating a temporary glut.
Some grain users have found benefits in the unusually wet weather. In Minnesota, many dairy farmers could not plant large portions of the acreage on which they grow corn and other feed. But the cattle have been more comfortable in the cooler than normal temperatures and are providing more milk. That has offset higher feed costs and the increased risk of udder infections from sloppy conditions, according to Land O'Lakes, the huge dairy cooperative in Arden Hills, Minn.
Farm groups are looking forward to a big aid package from Washington and speak gratefully of private charitable efforts already under way, but it is taken for granted that this year's weather will swell the ranks of former farmers. The farm population has been declining by about 1 percent annually in average years and by up to 4 percent in troubled times like 1988. It now accounts for less than 2 percent of the population, compared with 40 percent at the turn of the century.
 
'A Lot of Discouragement'
 "There will be a lot of discouragement," said Dean Kleckner, an Iowa farmer and president of the American Farm Bureau Federation, an association of more than four million farmers and ranchers that is based in Park Ridge, Ill. "After this year, some young farmers with a college education are going to say, 'Why bother?' and some older ones are going to retire early."
Some will have the decision thrust on them. About 10 percent of the Midwest's farmers entered 1993 with heavy debts or a record of bankruptcy during the 1980's, Neil Harl, an agricultural finance expert at Iowa State University, said. Those already in trouble are the least likely to have crops in storage to carry them through any shortfalls this year.
"The question is how willing the banks will be to show forbearance," Mr. Harl said. "More of them may require farmers to sell assets to pay off debts, since the market for land and equipment is stronger than it was during the 1980's."
Some farmers say that cautious banks are already cutting back on activities they were happy to finance in the past. Dennis Ihnen, who grows corn and soybeans in Hurley, S.D., has typically borrowed up to $10,000 to invest in futures contracts at the Board of Trade at the same time he is selling his fall crops. By selling the futures the following spring when prices are usually higher, he effectively gets the spring price for the crop without paying to store it over the winter. But this year, his bank said no, adding to the woes he already faces from getting only 65 percent of his land planted.
What is more, Mr. Ihnen said, neighbors who sought loans for operations that might spread their risks from crops to other activities, like fattening cattle, have also been turned down.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It's been nearly a month since we had a decent rain," said Bob Nitsch, a farmer who is harvesting alfalfa from a Dutchtown, Mo., field so parched, foreground, that the earth is cracked. On fields planted near the Mississippi River, background, he has lost half of his corn and soybeans to flooding. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (98%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); MISSISSIPPI RIVER UNITED STATES (98%); MIDWEST USA (98%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GRAIN; FORECASTS; RAIN; DROUGHT; FLOODS RIVERS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); CROP PRODUCTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); CORN FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); FOOD PRICES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



66 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Rachel S. Plafker, Dave S. Esrig

 BODY:
Rachel Sara Plafker, a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Jules Plafker of East Brunswick, N.J., was married yesterday to Dave Sanford Esrig, a son of Dr. and Mrs. Bernard Esrig of New York. Rabbi Chaim Rogoff officiated at the Excelsior, a catering establishment in Manalapan, N.J.
Mrs. Esrig, 24, graduated from Cornell University. She is a fourth-year veterinary student at the University of Pennsylvania, from which her husband received a master's degree in economics. Her father is the director of pathology at the Hospital Center at Orange in New Jersey. Her mother, Roxsene Plafker, is a school nurse in North Brunswick, N.J. 
 Mr. Esrig, 27 and a graduate of the University of Virginia, is an economist for Regional Financial Associates, a research and forecasting concern in West Chester, Pa. His mother, Paulette Esrig, is a corrective reading teacher in the New York City school system. His father, a retired school administrator for the New York City Board of Education, is the director of the Marathon Childhood Centers, preschools for disabled children in Queens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); CATERING SERVICES (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); CHILDREN (68%); 

PERSON: PLAFKER, RACHEL SARA (RACHEL SARA ESRIG); ESRIG, DAVE SANFORD

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



67 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: Sports of The Times;
For Mr. Cooperstown, It's Still a One-Man Show

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW

DATELINE: COOPERSTOWN, N.Y.

 BODY:
ON a hot August afternoon Mr. October rose to the occasion, again. Center stage, as we had come to expect of him, all alone, and in front of a huge crowd of some 10,000 people, Reggie Jackson became the 216th member to be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame.
Shouts of "Reg-gie! Reg-gie!" rang out from fans on a sprawling meadow. And the man in the dark suit, white shirt, aqua tie and broad shoulders standing under the canopy acknowledged the familiar chant with an empyrean nod, befitting this moment of ascendance into baseball's Olympus. 
 He came armed with a speech filled with emotions, with memories, with personal moments, with viewpoints about the state of the game and with a sense of appreciation and even gratitude for what he was, as well as who he became. It was a home run. A rather long home run, about 30 minutes in length, but isn't that what we had come to expect from Reggie, too?
Among the 38 Hall of Famers who returned to Cooperstown for the event was Catfish Hunter, a teammate of Jackson's with both the Oakland A's and the Yankees. Hunter preceded Jackson to the Yankees. "Reggie hit the clubhouse talking," said Hunter, "and guys on the team asked me, 'How come nobody killed this guy in Oakland.' I said, 'Just listen to him for two minutes and then walk away. He'll still be saying the same thing an hour later. But it doesn't matter. He'll help you win.' At the end of the year they said, 'Cat, you were right.' "
George Steinbrenner, who courted Jackson as a free agent and signed him to a $2.96 million contract for five years in 1977, was in attendance. "I think it's appropriate that Reggie is alone as an inductee," said Steinbrenner. "Fits his personality." Steinbrenner said that Jackson was "the definition of a star."
But Jackson unexpectedly defused what in times past resembled an ego as great as any of the towering blasts he cracked.
"You remember a player with the Yankees named Mickey Rivers?" asked Jackson. "Well, he said I had a white man's first name -- Reginald -- a Spanish middle name -- Martinez -- and a black man's last name. And that's why you're so fouled up."
And when he introduced his father, Martinez Jackson, a former tailor who is 90 years old and lives in Philadelphia, he asked him to stand. His father did and waved to the crowd. "Dad," he said, "no more applause. You're stealing my thunder."
It was his father, he said, who was his greatest influence, who taught him pride in being a black man, even though his father lived in a time when he was considered a second-class citizen, but who instilled in his son
the dream of "climbing the ladder of equality."
And it was his father who reminded him that he had to speak correctly, to form his words so that they would fit his thoughts. "And no ununh, no nope, no yep," said Jackson.
Reggie, though, would grow up in a different generation from Martinez Jackson, when he could be anyone he felt he wanted to be. And of the athletes of his time, Reggie said that Muhammad Ali, who was making his presence known in the early 1960's while Jackson was a college student at Arizona State, was a guiding light. Ali talked, regardless of the perceived effect on the listener. Jackson listened and learned. "He gave me the confidence to speak out and to be proud of who I am," said Jackson.
While Jackson wasn't in a league as a figure in racial matters as Ali had been, or, another of the models that Jackson referred to yesterday, Jackie Robinson, he took personal stands against what he saw as unfair treatment by a manager -- Billy Martin, particularly -- or Steinbrenner. And he saw himself in historical perspective. As he said, "I'm a real fan," and he remembered the struggles of black predecessors, including those in the Negro leagues. "It was a time when they knocked at the door," he said, "but nobody let them in."
While he played for the A's, the Orioles, the Angels and the Yankees, it is as a Yankee that he enters the Hall of Fame, a bronzed Yankee cap resting on his bronzed image on his Hall plaque. And while there may have been some deal between Steinbrenner and Jackson for a job as a consultant to the Yankees' principal owner, for the greater glory of both, Jackson still talks most movingly about his experience as a Yankee. "When you play in New York, everything is intensified 1,000 times. And the fans there play a special role. I'll never forget you. You're the best."
Earlier, Hunter had recalled when the fans once pelted Jackson with his Reggie! candy bars, which shot briefly across the chocolate firmament. But, after a homer or two, they were again eating out of Reggie's hands.
Jackson took a look at the game today and was concerned. "The humanity of the game" cannot be lost. "The game of Williams and Mantle and DiMaggio and Clemente" should not be overcome "by the economics."
Returning to himself, he said, "I know I wasn't the best -- just look behind me and I know that" -- seated behind him on the podium were folks like Musial and Spahn and Feller and Frank Robinson. "But when the roll is called, sooner or later they've got to call my name."
As Mickey Rivers might have noticed, Reginald Martinez Jackson, the man with a profusion if not a confusion of names, had got it right.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Reggie Jackson listening to his introduction before becoming the 216th man inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. (pg. C1); Reggie Jackson, who was the only player inducted into the Hall of Fame yesterday, walking to the site of the ceremonies in Cooperstown, N.Y. (pg. C5) (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BASEBALL HALL OF FAME (COOPERSTOWN, NY) OAKLAND A'S (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BASEBALL HALL OF FAME (COOPERSTOWN, NY) OAKLAND A'S (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS BASEBALL (93%); ATHLETES (77%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



68 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
An Innate Universal Moral Sense? If So, Why?

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

The Moral Sense
By James Q. Wilson
313 pages. The Free Press/Macmillan. $22.95.
Superficially considered, James Q. Wilson in his new book, "The Moral Sense," sounds like an old-fashioned father banging on the tabletop and shouting for a rejection of new-fangled ideas and a return to the ways of our ancestors. It's these modern-age thinkers like Darwin, Marx and Freud who have got us in such trouble, he says. It's the cultural relativists and logical positivists. Who says there's no longer such a thing as virtue? he demands to know. Why, we wouldn't always be complaining about crime and immorality if we didn't know what virtue was. Our very concern over the decline of ethics proves that our moral standards are still very much intact. 
 But in attempting to analyze and prove these assertions, Mr. Wilson is more subtle and reasonable. He taught government for 26 years at Harvard and is now James Collins Professor of Management at the University of California at Los Angeles. He has written or co-written 12 books, among them "American Government," "Bureaucracy," "On Character," "Thinking About Crime" and, with Richard J. Herrnstein, "Crime and Human Nature." So he is practiced at thinking about complex problems systematically, and incidentally stirring up a storm.
Do humans have an innate moral sense? Confounding the cultural relativism of anthropologists, he posits a universal pattern of kinship that holds children dear and forbids murder and incest. Even the Ik of northern Uganda turn out to conform, writes Mr. Wilson in a footnote. According to a 1985 study by Bernd Heine, Colin Turnbull in "The Mountain People" simply misunderstood this famously loveless tribe.
As Mr. Wilson sees it, four innate sentiments dispose people to a universal moral sense. These are sympathy, fairness, self-control and duty. He doubts if the human species could have evolved without them. (He can talk about evolution because his earlier condemnation of Darwin only referred to "the popular corruptions" of his teachings.)
Of course he can't flat out prove the innate existence of these four sentiments. But his far-ranging discussion of them embraces a remarkable variety of experimental research. "The truth, if it exists," he writes, "is in the details."For instance, the famous case of Kitty Genovese, in which 38 witnesses ignored the cries of a woman being killed, would seem to have cast doubt on the innateness of sympathy. But extensive experimenting seems to have determined that the Kitty Genovese effect works proportionally to the number of potential helpers involved. A single bystander caught off guard by an emergency is more likely to intercede than a crowd, each of whose members assumes that someone else will step in.
After examining his four innate sentiments by every imaginable light from the behavior of torture victims in Vietnam to the responses of subjects in an experiment in which wallets containing money and addresses were dropped on New York City streets, Mr. Wilson moves on to "an account of the sources of the moral sentiments." These sources he sees as human nature, family experiences, gender and culture.
The sections on human nature and family are more or less what one would expect. But in his section on gender he concludes that moral sense differs by sex, with males more interested in justice (honoring contracts, making a fair division or respecting rights) and females more disposed to care (helping people in need, resolving conflict). Anticipating objections, he writes in a footnote: "I am acutely aware of the risks I run in writing of gender differences. On no topic is it easier to produce misunderstandings or arouse resentments. To some, any talk of differences implies a claim about rights. It does not. People can be equal without being the same."
In his section on culture, he attempts through a complex examination of geography, economics, feudalism, church history, travel and commerce to answer the following question: "How did it happen that in the West people were induced to believe that our moral sentiments should extend to many, perhaps all, people, and not just to family, close relatives and ethnic kin?"
In the latter part of this discussion, he deplores what he calls "the ambiguous legacy of the Enlightenment," in particular those intellectuals who assumed that "one could take the product of a strong family life -- gentlemanly conduct -- for granted and get on with the task of liberating individuals from stuffy convention, myopic religion and political error."
Here Mr. Wilson seems to be turning himself back into the heavy father pounding the tabletop and decrying the decline of morals. But by this point we can see beyond the cliche and realize that his remarks on the day-care debate, on the pitfalls of single-mother families and on the ideology of the free choice of values are not just the knee jerks of a reactionary.
At the end he sums up: "I am struck in reading accounts of the lives of some of the most dedicated ideologues by how little the content of the ideology mattered and how much anger at 'society,' 'the ruling classes,' 'the government,' 'meddling bureaucrats' or 'inferior races' mattered. Anger is the necessary handmaiden of sympathy and fairness, and we are wrong to try to make everyone sweet and reasonable. But anger, like those moral senses that it exists to defend, must be checked by other senses. Those others are self-control and duty. By the same token, self-satisfaction and narrow loyalties, which are emotions growing out of self-control and duty, must be checked by other sentiments, and these are sympathy and fairness."
This striking analysis of the excessive rage in American society today is worth thinking about. As is so much else that Mr. Wilson writes about in this provocative meditation on the moral sense.

GRAPHIC: Photo of James Q. Wilson (The Free Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MORAL SENSE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UGANDA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); UGANDA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ETHICS (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); MURDER (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); WITNESSES (63%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; WILSON, JAMES Q

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



69 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Orioles Are Put on the Bidding Block With a Judge as the Auctioneer

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
With the price tag expected to exceed $150 million, the Baltimore Orioles will be the object of a bidding war today as major league baseball reaches a unique, but modern, stage: A United States Bankruptcy Court judge will hold a hearing in Manhattan to determine the new owner of the Orioles.
Groups headed by an investment banker from Cincinnati, a lawyer from Baltimore, an international art dealer from New York and a former National Football League tight end make up the lineup of bidders who want to succeed Eli Jacobs as the owner of the suddenly financially successful Orioles. 
 There is no guarantee that Judge Cornelius Blackshear will award the team to one of the bidders today in baseball's first bankruptcy auction, but that is the intention as the principals and their lawyers gather for the high-stakes game.
Even what Judge Blackshear decides will not be final. The major league club owners must approve the new owner, and an interesting dilemma could occur if they were to reject the judge's selection. But baseball officials have been interviewing and checking the backgrounds and financial status of all of the bidders and are expected to have no problems with any of them.
Because of an agreement previously reached and bids already made, the sale price is guaranteed to surpass by at least 40 percent the current record for the purchase price of a baseball team. That figure is $106 million, which a Japanese-led group paid for the Seattle Mariners 14 months ago. Jacobs bought the Orioles for $70 million in 1989.
"It's an open auction and the process starts at around $148 million; how high it will go, I have an idea," said Jeffrey Loria, the art dealer, who last year was the minor league executive of the year as owner of the Oklahoma City team in the American Association.
Jacobs, who owns 87 percent of the Orioles and supervised the creation of Camden Yards, the most widely acclaimed park in the majors, actually reached agreement to sell the club for $141.3 million to a group headed by William DeWitt Jr., the Cincinnati investment banker and son of the late baseball owner and general manager (the one who traded Frank Robinson from the Reds to the Orioles, saying Robinson was an "old 30.").
But Jacobs, who court papers say has assets of $146.7 million and liabilities of $320.7 million, filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11, so the court became the arbiter in the sale.
DeWitt's group subsequently bid $146.25 million, but the group led by Peter Angelos, a Baltimore lawyer, topped that with a $148.1 million bid during a June hearing before Judge Blackshear. The judge, however, said that that hearing was not the time or place for formal bids, scheduling a 2 P.M. hearing today for the proper setting.
 
Ex-Cowboy in the Bidding
 The Angelos bid was $1.85 million higher than the DeWitt number because the judge has ruled that other bidders have to top DeWitt's bid by $1.75 million, a sum the DeWitt group would receive because it has an agreement with Jacobs.
Jean Fugett, who played eight seasons in the N.F.L. for the Dallas Cowboys and the Washington Redskins, is the fourth prospective owner. Fugett, who is black, is chairman of the New York-based food conglomerate, TLC Beatrice International Holdings, and would be the first member of a minority group to own a controlling interest in a major league baseball team. DeWitt and Angelos invited Fugett, who is 42, to join their groups, but he declined.
Butch Meily, a spokesman for Fugett, said Friday that Fugett had not made a final decision on the amount of his bid. None of the other bidders disclosed his plans either.
"We're not prepared to go to any price," said DeWitt, who is 51 and a limited partner in the ownership of the Texas Rangers. "We're prepared to go to whatever we feel the reasonable value of the team is at the time we have to put our final price on the table."
Angelos, whose group includes the novelist Tom Clancy, the movie director Barry Levinson and the tennis player Pam Shriver, said he and the others aligned with him are flexible as to how much they may offer.
"The Orioles are an exceptionally successful franchise," Angelos, who is 64, said. "They can support the kind of purchase price being discussed. It's not a first-rate business deal, but there's more to this than business. The desire to bring ownership back to Baltimore is one that is driving our effort. We might even be willing to pay somewhat of a premium to do that."
Jacobs's primary business and residence is in New York, but he bought a house in the Baltimore area, stayed there often and attended 50 or more games a season. Baseball's ownership committee stresses local ownership, although the members have overlooked that criterion when it suited their interests.
Loria, who is 52, said he would establish a local residence if he was the winning bidder. "We'll have a full hands-on and positive presence," he said. DeWitt, too, said he would purchase a home in the area.
Until last week, a fifth group had been in the bidding lineup, but the four Jemal brothers, owners of the Nobody Beats the Wiz chain of electronics stores, decided to drop out.
"You have to know when to hold them and when to fold them," Robert Leibner, a lawyer for the group, said. He added that the decision was based on several factors, including the uncertainty of baseball's labor situation and the ultimate price tag. Douglas Jemal had said previously that he was prepared to go to $150 million, explaining that a team that could net $30 million a year was worth that sum.
Baseball economics generally seemed to be a concern among most or all of the bidders. They cited the labor situation, the television contract and the plan by Richard Ravitch, the owners' chief labor executive, to increase the amount of revenue the clubs share. Because of their income, the Orioles would be classed as a large-market club that would have to give up a substantial amount of money for the small-market pool if the owners agree to the plan.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); SEATTLE MARINERS (54%); SEATTLE MARINERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); SEATTLE MARINERS (54%); SEATTLE MARINERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BANKRUPTCIES BASEBALL (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); JUDGES (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); ART DEALERS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (71%); SPORTS (71%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; BLACKSHEAR, CORNELIUS (JUDGE); DEWITT, WILLIAM O JR; ANGELOS, PETER; LORIA, JEFFREY; FUGETT, JEAN; JACOBS, ELI JEAN S FUGETT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



70 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: For Children, Nothing Beats Two-Parent Home;
Too Poor to Marry

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Speed the Search for Deadbeat Dads" (editorial, July 17): Divorced fathers, in the middle and upper class at least as much as among the poor, regularly neglect their financial obligations to their children. But for poor dads there's a dimension you neglect. 
 Large numbers of young men living in central cities who father children cannot afford to contribute to their children's care, much less marry the mothers, however much they might want to. Research in Chicago directed by William Julius Wilson shows that the rate of marriage by young black men to the women whose babies they fathered fell two and a half times in the space of one generation. The jobs that would have made it possible to marry and raise a family have overwhelmingly been removed from the cities where they could once survive economically.
Unless we seriously address the problem of jobs for these young men, we will not make a dent in the child support question. And if we can't or won't create jobs for them, our only moral choice is to provide Federal support to the children and mothers who need it.
 
SUMNER M. ROSEN
New York, July 22, 1993
The writer retired as a professor of social policy at Columbia University's School of Social Work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; EDITORIALS CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); MARRIAGE (78%); MEN (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); JOB CREATION (68%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, SUMNER M (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



71 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: After 13 Years of a Vicious War, Liberians Dare to Hope for Peace

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, Aug. 1

 BODY:
Virtually all shooting between Liberia's warring factions reportedly ended today as a peace accord brokered by the United Nations took effect.
"All sides seem to be respecting the cease-fire," said John Adda, the deputy field commander of a regional peacekeeping operation. "I think everyone is fed up with fighting." 
 Charles Taylor, the leader of one of the main factions, was quoted on a radio broadcast as telling his troops to return to their homes.
 
'The War Is Over'
 "Some of you were shoeshine boys, carpenters and farmers," he said. "We ask you to return to your towns and villages and begin to rebuild your lives. The war is over."
The civil war, which has cost nearly 150,000 lives, began in December 1989 when Mr. Taylor's forces attacked the military dictatorship of President Samuel K. Doe, who was killed in September 1990. As the guerrilla movement grew and split into rival factions, the widespread violence brought military intervention by neighboring West African countries.
Diplomats and relief workers here acknowledge that it is too soon to tell if the truce will lead to lasting peace. But for the first time since the war began, almost all the principals seem to be genuinely groping for a comprehensive political solution, largely because of the growing role of the United Nations.
Until recently, the 16-member Economic Community of West African States was virtually the sole mediator. Troops from Nigeria, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Gambia have been in Liberia since August 1990 trying to impose a truce.
But Mr. Taylor has insisted that these forces were not neutral, and he recently accused Nigeria's President, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, of trying to assassinate him.
At the same time, Mr. Taylor has refused to recognize the interim Government set up by the West Africans and led by Amos Sawyer.
There was a widespread belief that only if the Western powers, particularly the United States, turned their full attention toward Liberia would the country be put back together again.
But in a diplomatic breakthrough, the three main factions -- Mr. Taylor's rebel group, the National Patriotic Liberation Front; Mr. Sawyer's interim Government, and the United Liberation Movement, loosely allied to the army set up by President Doe -- signed a peace pact on July 25.
The key differences this time, during negotiations in Geneva, came from pressure from the Organization of African Unity and an agreement by the United Nations to play a far greater role in forging a settlement.
Under the terms of the accord, the three main factions are to be disarmed by a reconsituted West African peacekeeping force, which United Nations officials say will include troops from Egypt, Zimbabwe and Tanzania. Perhaps most significant, the disarmament will be supervised by 200 to 300 United Nations monitors.
The agreement also calls for elections to be held in February.
Some African political authorities emphasized that the new atmosphere was based more on exhaustion than on any real entente.
 
Skepticism and Hope
 In this view, the constant shelling of Mr. Taylor's headquarters in Gbarnga, the massacre last month of nearly 600 unarmed civilians and the crippling of the economy all have finally forced the militias' leaders to accept at least a short-term accommodation.
Although Mr. Taylor has reneged on cease-fires several times, there was an almost palpable sense of relief here.
In a speech broadcast tonight, Mr. Sawyer said he was confident that the accord would "pave the way to the restoration of peace and the beginning of democracy in our society."
"Let us think positively," he added.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A headline on Monday about a cease-fire in Liberia misstated the length of the civil war there. The war began about three and a half years ago, not 13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); LIBERIA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); GHANA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GAMBIA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); GUINEA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); LIBERIA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); GHANA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GAMBIA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); GUINEA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT WAR & CONFLICT (92%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICS (88%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); ASSASSINATION (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1993



72 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
NATO THREATENS AIR STRIKES
Under U.S. pressure, the NATO allies threatened to bomb Bosnian Serb forces that are tightening a noose around Sarajevo, if the United Nations requested such action. A1
 
U.S. ASSERTS ROLE IN NATO
News Analysis: Worried about the deteriorating position of the Bosnian Muslims and stung by criticism that it is indecisive, the U.S. is seeking to reassert its primacy in NATO. A1
 

A hilly region near Sarajevo could be the Government's last stand. A9
Peace talks in Geneva ground to a standstill. A9
 
FRANC DECLINES SHARPLY
The French franc sank over 2 percent against the German mark, casting doubt on the monetary system and plans for one currency. A1
 
ARISTIDE AWAITS DESTINY
As the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide prepares his return Haiti, the White House is wondering whether he will be able to make the transition from martyr to statesman. A1
 
TEXT BOOKS FOR SOUTH AFRICA
Anticipating that a new South Africa will demand new textbooks, Macmillan Press sought a black partner for a publishing venture here. A3
 
THE MANY WOES OF ALBANIA
Albania has no economy to speak of, an unemployment rate of 40 percent of the work force, few public services and pervasive poverty. A3
 
WARNING ON U.S. TROOP CUTS
The general in charge of reducing the number of U.S. soldiers in Germany to 65,000 by 1995 said the number should be no lower. A7
 
Britain officially ratified the Treaty on European Union. A7
 
The U.N. began withdrawing peacekeepers from Cambodia. A5
 
The hijacking of a U.N. bus left one dead and five wounded. A2
 
Warren Christopher saw a bright side to the fighting in Lebanon. A2
 
A Cuban dissident is assailing the U.S. embargo on Cuba. A5
 
National A10-15, A18
 
BUDGET COMPROMISE REACHED
After days of haggling, Congressional negotiators struck a compromise on a budget plan, and the White House and party leaders began rounding up votes to pass the measure by the end of this week. A1
 
CLINTON NEARS ONE GOAL
New analysis: If Congress approves the compromise, the President will have achieved the first of three of his goals for the economy. The other two have fallen by the wayside and with them has gone the dream and the call to arms. A1
 
SEARCH FOR A PIVOTAL VOTE
With Senator David Boren insisting he will change his vote and oppose the budget bill, President Clinton has to get at least one other unhappy Democrat to change his mind and support it. A15
 
Lobbyists are mounting only limited efforts against the budget bill. A15
 
ST. LOUIS FLOOD WALL HOLDS
The Mississippi River all but consumed villages just to the north and south of St. Louis, but the city's flood wall stood firm against a rushing onslaught of muddy water. A1
 
LEVEES BROKEN TO SAVE VILLAGE
In a dramatic bit of flood triage, local officials and the Army Corps of Engineers decided to break a hole in a major Mississippi River levee in an attempt to save Prairie du Rocher, Ill. A12
 
CHILD GOES TO BIOLOGICAL PARENTS
After a wrenching court battle, 2 1/2-year-old Jessica DeBoer was taken from the couple who had raised her and handed over to an Iowa couple who are her biological parents but virtual strangers to the child. A13
 
TAX IN MIAMI TO AID HOMELESS
In an action that is strongly opposed by the tourist industry, the City of Miami will soon begin imposing a 1 percent tax on some restaurant meals to finance programs for the homeless. A10
 
PRAISE FOR LAWYER IN FRAUD CASE
The case against the Bank of Credit and Commerce International has not suffered from a lack of superlatives. And in Gustave Newman, Robert Altman has retained a lawyer widely considered to be a highly skilled practitioner. A10
 
PLAN WOULD ALTER MEDICARE
Under the national health care plan being prepared by the Clinton Administration, states would be allowed to fold Medicare into the insurance networks the plan calls on them to create, the Administration's top health adviser said. A10
 
Metro Digest B1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-12
 
Scientists learn what sleep does for the immune system. C1
 
Did flowers evolve to be used by insects? Clues in fossil record. C1
 
Scientist at Work: Graham Hawkes, undersea engineer. C1
 
The Doctor's World: Second-guessing second opinions. C3
 
Despite gaps in data, it is clear that commercial fish are in trouble. C4
 
Science Watch C7
 
Peripherals C9
 
Q&A C10
 
Personal Computers C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Conference on TV violence. C13
 
What to do with Soviet art? C13
 
Music: "Werther" at Glimmerglass. C13
 
Festival New Orleans at Jones Beach. C13
 
Verdi's "Aroldo." C16
 
A swan song at City Opera. C18
 
Dance: California dreaming. C16
 
Books: "The Rest of Life," by Mary Gordon. C17
 
Television: "Money Man." C18
 
Fashion B7
 
Men's wear expands the notion of basics.
 
Patterns
 
By Design
 
Sports B8-14
 
Baseball: Jays win Round 1 with Yanks. B9
 
Orioles sold for record price. B9
 
Mets win a close one, 4-3. B11
 
Basketball: Farewell to Lewis. B9
 
Magic Johnson still thinks comeback. B13
 
Columns: Araton on Blue Jays B9
 
Chass on baseball B11
 
George on pro football B12
 
Football: Competition is open for No. 2 Giant passer. B13
 
Jets and Jones not even close. B13
 
Obituaries B6
 
Duncan Sterling Jr., investor, yachtsman and gardener.
 
Edward Breck, developed shampoo and led company.
 
Belmont Towbin, investment banker.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
A timely threat on Bosnia.
 
Ross, still bobbing and weaving.
 
Broadway babies.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: The dinghy of state.
 
Ronald Reagan: Just say no to Clinton's package.
 
Khushwant Singh: India, the Hindu state.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C18
 
Chess C17
 
Crossword C17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (90%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HAITI (79%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (90%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HAITI (79%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); BUDGETS (87%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LOBBYING (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); HIJACKING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); GERMAN MARK (69%); PUBLISHING (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); APPROVALS (62%); POLITICS (61%); RELIGION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); DAN BOREN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



73 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2285 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Man of Destiny Awaiting His Hour

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1

 BODY:
For most of the 22 months since he was ousted from Haiti's presidency in a military coup, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide has been something of a celebrity in Washington, running his government-in-exile from rented Georgetown apartments and lecturing audiences about the urgent need to free his troubled country.
Now, after arduous negotiations with the same military leaders who toppled him, the frail, soft-spoken Catholic priest is poised to go home. And the nagging question for the Clinton Administration as Father Aristide prepares his return 13 weeks from now is whether he will be able to make the transition from martyr to statesman. 
 It is one thing to show up at parties in Hollywood and to be feted as a champion of democracy on Capitol Hill, and quite another to rebuild a country devastated by brutal military rule and economic sanctions. Such a transition would be difficult for any politician.
 
No Ordinary Politician
 But Father Aristide is not an ordinary politician. He was expelled by his religious order for, among other things, "a glorifying of class struggle." He is an iconoclast who sees himself a missionary of God and views the world through the lens of liberation theology.
"I feel confident, very confident," he said Friday in an interview in his one-bedroom apartment in Georgetown, describing his pending return to Haiti as an act of love, not one of sacrifice. "It's not a question of being willing to become a martyr, nothing like that. It's a question of sharing love, giving your life for love the way Jesus did."
The 40-year-old Father Aristide tends to arouse passionate support and passionate opposition.
Among Haitians who elected him President with an overwhleming majority in December 1990, he is a beatific visionary, a brave leader who knows eight languages, writes poetry and composes hymns on his guitar and is willing to risk his life for his people.
For his political opponents, mostly in the military and the upper classes, he is a demagogue with messianic visions and some of the same thuggish tendencies of the military junta that overthrew him.
The Clinton Administration, which has spearheaded the campaign to reinstate Father Aristide, appears to regard him as a volatile chemical that needs to be handled with care.
When President Clinton summoned Father Aristide to the White House last month, the meeting was half lecture, half pep talk. Two weeks before, Father Aristide had signed a compromise agreement in New York with the military commanders who had ousted him, and Mr. Clinton wanted to impress upon him the importance of becoming presidential.
"The President emphasized that Aristide had to be a figure who spoke about reconciliation and healing and rebuilding," a senior Administration official said. "He told him how important it was to make the transition from president-in-exile to President."
Mr. Clinton was said to have been heartened when Father Aristide, who once called capitalism a mortal sin, preached forgiveness rather than vengeance later that day at a meeting in Miami.
"Haiti must be reconstructed by its sons and daughters," Father Aristide told 180 Haitian businessmen, many of them his political enemies. During a standing ovation at the end of his speech, Father Aristide embraced Raymond Roi, a onetime foe who heads Haiti's Chamber of Commerce, as the crowd burst into a rendition of the country's national anthem.
"Aristide is acting very responsibly and very constructively," said Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Clinton's deputy national security adviser. Michael Barnes, a former Democratic Congressman from Maryland who is Father Aristide's lawyer, said Mr. Clinton had told him at a dinner on Wednesday night that Father Aristide "is a good man who's trying to help his people."'
 
Learning Experience For Clinton's Team
 That sort of praise is a far cry from the Clinton Administration's introduction to Father Aristide.
A classified Central Intelligence Agency psychological profile prepared after his ouster in September 1991 portrayed a man prone to severe mood swings. The report suggested that he suffered from depression and may have had nervous breakdowns, and it concluded that he was capable of saying one thing one day and the reverse the next without being aware of any inconsistency, said senior officials familiar with its contents.
The conclusions of this assessment were presented to the Clinton team during the transition. But while Mr. Clinton's top aides say they at first found the C.I.A. analysis troubling, they quickly decided that the fact that Father Aristide was Haiti's first democratically elected President was more important than a psychological profile that was dated and based largely on secondhand reporting.
"It is a caricature of Aristide," a senior Adminsitration official said. "Even people who have doubts about him acknowledge that his experiences of the last few years have been sobering, and that he's grown."
In the interview, Father Aristide vehemently denied that he had had a nervous breakdown, had suffered from depression or was taking medication, although he added that the C.I.A. assessment of his mental state did not come as a surprise.
"When you don't like someone, it's natural to say bad things about him," he said. "I'm like a man following Jesus, and Jesus was a God, and they said he was crazy and they even killed him because they couldn't understand how he said he was a God. If they could say that about him, who am I?"
Asked about the introduction to his autobiography, which says he "sometimes succumbs briefly to depression," Father Aristide dismissed the statement. And although a flattering profile in a book on Haiti by Amy Wilentz, a journalist and personal friend, refers to a series of "nervous prostrations," he said: "No, no, she didn't mean that. She was just trying to explain how someone can be open to listening to the audience and be in communion with their suffering."
One senior Administration official who has come to know him well said the C.I.A. was biased against him because of his leftist views.
"There's ideological overlay on some of the official analysis," he said. "In any case, it was decided that that it was not our responsibility to pass judgment on his mental health and that there was nothing so disturbing as to override our very strong conviction that he had to return to Haiti as soon as possible."
 
A Frustrating Time For Highest Officials
 The process of restoring Father Aristide to power has been fraught with frustration for the American and United Nations officials who deal with him. Father Aristide's predilection for consulting with each member of his inner circle of up to 40 advisers, a tendency often described as indecision, has been a recurrent source of exasperation.
On July 2, the fifth day of torturous negotiations on Governors Island in New York Harbor on a compromise accord to restore Father Aristide to power, Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations told him he was getting a very good deal, officials familiar with the conversation say. Father Aristide replied that yes, he was examining the accord very carefully. "Don't examine it, just sign it," Mr. Boutros-Ghali is reported to have replied.
Shortly after midnight that night, Lawrence E. Pezzullo, the American special envoy to the talks, was so distressed by Father Aristide's indecision that he called Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, and asked him to intervene directly.
But Father Aristide was asleep, and his aides would not wake him. The normally easygoing Mr. Lake spent the next three hours trying to convince Mr. Barnes that the moment must be seized and the document signed.
"Tony stressed we are working together to restore democracy and bring him back to Haiti, and if we lose this moment we may fail," a senior Administration official said. "The message was fairly firmly put."
For another nail-biting day, Father Aristide did not budge. Mr. Lake had the unfortunate task of telling an impatient Mr. Clinton at an early Saturday morning meeting that Father Aristide had not signed, even though the military leader who had ousted him was poised to do so.
Mr. Clinton was so eager for good news that he twice interrupted his golf game for a status report on the negotiations, so frustrated that he stayed awake that night until he received word that Father Aristide had finally signed.
 
Some Annoyance At Accord's Terms
 Father Aristide and his supporters said they felt that at the eleventh hour they were being pushed into unacceptable concessions to the military rulers. Particularly galling to them was that Father Aristide, the target of two assassination attempts in Haiti, had to agree to allow members of the ruling high command to stay in the army, as long as they took posts outside Haiti. Only Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, who was appointed by Father Aristide as commander in chief but then overthrew him, must retire under the accord.
"We were astounded to learn early Saturday morning that this is what they meant by the 'resignation and departure of the high command,' " Mr. Barnes said. "We never understood that they could remain in the army."
In the interview, Father Aristide acknowledged his frustration with the accord but said, "I signed it, and I will keep my word."
Father Aristide appears to have shed much of his suspicion of the United States since the days when cables from the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince labeled him a "radical firebrand." The suspicion was inflamed by the Bush Administration's tacit support for Marc Bazin, a well-heeled former World Bank official, in the 1990 election.
 
'Love' for Clinton Partly Reciprocated
 The Haitian leader said in the interview that he "loves" Mr. Clinton, remarking that during a phone conversation one day with the President he realized that "there was a kind of deep human vibration" in him. "I felt that he really understood the reality," Father Aristide said.
He referred to Mr. Clinton, Mr. Lake and Mr. Christopher as "my friends," but was less enthusiastic about Mr. Pezzullo, a hard-driving negotiator who has lost his temper with Father Aristide many times in an effort to broker a deal. "As a psychologist, I understand the differences in people," he said when asked whether Mr. Pezzullo had pressed him too hard.
Father Aristide has invited Mr. Clinton to visit Haiti after democracy is restored. That is suppposed to happen on Oct. 30, after a new Prime Minister takes office. The United Nations oil and arms embargo is to be suspended, and the Government's financial assets unfrozen. American troops will be deployed to professionalize the army and build military housing, and French and Canadian police trainers are to create an independent police force.
Father Aristide once said in a 1990 interview, "Above all, we must not accept money from abroad," but he now lauds the promise by the United Nations of a program of more than $1 billion in aid over the next five years.
One of the difficulties in trying to assess Father Aristide is that he has been on the interview-and-lecture circuit so long that he seems to have packaged answers for every question.
"Haiti looks like a broken glass, and it is my responsiblity to put the pieces together, and of course I cannot do it alone," he said, repeating the same image that a senior White House official said had impressed Mr. Clinton in their meeting last month.
 
An Improvement On Human Rights
 The Clinton Administration regards Father Aristide's record in the seven months he served as President as mixed. He followed what American offficials of both Administrations saw as a relatively responsible economic policy, reduced the public payroll and abolished the jobs of the rural sheriffs who ruled the countryside with impunity.
The main criticism lodged against him is his own less-than-perfect human rights record, including speeches that have been interpreted as condoning the practice of "necklacing" political opponents with burning tires. But independent human rights experts insist that his transgressions were mild compared with the tyranny that preceded and followed him.
"While Aristide's record is far from perfect, it's obscene to compare it to the mass murder, torture, arbitrary detention by the military in the two years since the coup," said Kenneth Roth, executive director of the New York-based Human Rights Watch.
Clinton Administration officials quietly express concern that if foreign military and police trainers do not begin their work soon, the military may try to sabotage Father Aristide's return.
When he is asked about how he plans to govern, Father Aristide's answers are long on spirituality and short on data. Although he is making his way through a stack of books on Haiti's economy, in the interview he offered no concrete proposals on how he intended to rebuild the country after his return.
His supporters say that what he lacks in hands-on experience he makes up in the strength of his character.
"There is no other leader who has impressed me as much as Aristide," said Representative Major Owens, a Brooklyn Democrat who serves as an unofficial adviser to the Haitian leader. "He has compassion and unquestioning integrity, and I know he will have the wisdom to seek experienced people to rebuild his country."
Even if he does return at the end of October and gradually reasserts his authority over the military, as envisioned in the Governors Island agreement, Father Aristide will not have very long to prove himself again. His term expires 27 months later, and he cannot run again until five years after that.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who may soon return to Haiti. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Supporters of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide celebrating Father Aristide's 40th birthday on July 15 at a church in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. They held leaflets wishing the returning leader a happy birthday. (Associated Press) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US COUPS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); POETRY (62%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



74 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Europe's Currency Crisis
The French franc sank more than 2 percent and European governments were left wondering what remained of their monetary system and their plans to create a single currency by the end of the century. [Page A1.] Currency traders bought German marks and Japanese yen, pushing weaker currencies down and sending the dollar to a new record low against the yen. [D17.]
 
The Economy
Congressional negotiators struck a compromise on a five-year budget plan, and the White House and Democratic leaders began the task of rounding up enough votes to pass the measure. [A1.] 
 The plant closing law seems to have had virtually no impact on most workers, even though millions of layoffs have occurred since Congress enacted it in 1988. [D1.]
The outlook for manufacturing improved only slightly in July, the National Association of Purchasing Management said. [D5.]
Spending on construction projects jumped 1.2 percent in June, the best showing this year, but analysts said the important residential sector was still not responding as it should. [D5.]
 
Companies
Edzard Reuter was called a visionary as he built Daimler-Benz into the world's 10th-largest industrial company. The company is still growing, but so are the doubts. [D1.]
The Baltimore Orioles baseball team was sold for $173 million in an auction forced by the bankruptcy of the Orioles' owner. [B9.]
Motorola said it had lined up $800 million in financing, including about $40 million from Sprint, for its Iridium project.[D3.]
The finance director of troubled Lloyd's of London has resigned after four months in office. [D3.]
Sunbeam-Oster elected a new chief executive, ending a seven-month search set off when its chairman was ousted. [D3.]
Corestates Financial expanded further into New Jersey with an agreement to acquire the Constellation Bancorporation. [D3.]
The corporate espionage melodrama involving General Motors and Volkswagen has moved to the executive suites. [D4.]
R. H. Macy reported that its financial performance in June met the goals outlined to creditors. [D4.]
Molson Breweries plans to introduce the first "ice beer" marketed in the United States. [D3.]
The F.D.A. secured an injunction barring Kabi Pharmacia from illegally promoting a treatment for ulcerative colitis. [C5.]
 
International
Ukraine is finding a growing niche for its steel exports in the United States and may actually benefit from an American decision to continue anti-dumping duties against most foreign exporters of steel plate. [D1.]
 
Markets
The stock market rebounded from Friday's slump. The Dow Jones industrials jumped 21.52 points to close at 3,560.99. [D6.]
Yields on short- and intermediate-term Treasury issues edged higher yesterday, while the 30-year bond's yield slipped. [D15.]
Gold prices retreated slightly after hitting the highest levels in nearly three years. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
The latest failure of Europe's attempt to fix exchange rates emphasized the profits that can be made from a currency crisis. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
The lesson of Wieden & Kennedy's work for Subaru may be that a campaign alone can't sell cars. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); TAP (NYSE) (81%); M (NYSE) (64%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (81%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (81%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (81%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (64%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (64%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (81%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (66%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (66%); MACY'S INC (64%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); PHARMACIA CORP (52%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UKRAINE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CURRENCIES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BASEBALL (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (62%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (60%); BREWERIES (60%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (60%); LAYOFFS (55%); COLON DISEASE (50%); INJUNCTIONS (50%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



75 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
NEW FIGHT OVER PATIENT
A new legal fight over the release of a mentally ill homeless man who has menaced and frightened residents of the Upper West Side for years was joined yesterday as New York State officials moved to detain him at a psychiatric hospital for up to six more months to allow time to find him a suitable home. B3.
 
BODIES IDENTIFIED; 4TH VICTIM FOUND
A woman and her two children who were shot to death and dumped at the edge of the East River over the weekend were finally identified, and when the police searched their home in Connecticut they made another chilling discovery -- the body of the woman's husband, wrapped in a blanket in the garage. B2.
 
WHERE EVERY SECTION IS ROMANCE
They did it to Laundromats. They did it to health clubs. Was it really so long before New Yorkers would turn the mega-bookstore into a meeting place for the unattached? The block-long new Barnes & Noble on Broadway near 83d Street has become, in the words of one patron, "the ultimate safe-sex place." B3.
 
BANKING ON THE BLUES
The former American Savings Bank, a neglected neo-Classical temple on Union Square in Manhattan, was bought yesterday by the House of Blues of Cambridge, Mass., which plans to convert the building into one in a national chain of restaurants and blues bars. B3.
New York City's 6,000-mile water distribution system has tested clean everywhere. B2.
A gunman opened fire inside a high school classroom in the Bronx, wounding an 18-year-old. B3.
Alan G. Hevesi begins an advertising campaign to get his name known in the race for New York City comptroller. B2.
 
REGION
 
INSANITY PLEA IS RIFKIN'S DEFENSE
In a move that came as no surprise to prosecutors, the lawyer for Joel Rifkin, the unemployed landscaper suspected of killing 17 women, says that he plans to use an insanity defense based on several psychiatric examinations of his client that occurred in July. B5.
 
NEGOTIATION URGED IN INDIAN DISPUTE
The Justice Department urges Connecticut officials to negotiate a peaceful end to their standoff with the Golden Hill Paugussett Indians over a tax-free smoke shop on the tribe's reservation. B5.
 
CANINE UNIT GAINS WIDE PRESTIGE
The 55 dogs in the Connecticut State Police canine unit are considered among the best crime-fighting dogs in the world and have been called out of state in recent months to help with some of the nation's most publicized cases. B5.
 
TOLL TAKERS BLOCK NEW SYSTEM
The New York Thruway Authority had begun collecting some passenger-car tolls electronically, but the toll collectors' union, citing safety issues, won an injunction that has blocked the use of special lanes that would speed the cars through. B4.
The police say a Hempstead, L.I., postal worker who threatened his wife with a pistol had a small arsenal. B5.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Our Towns by Joseph Berger B5

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: New Car Registrations" shows the number of new car registrations in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut from '91-'93. (Source: R.L. Polk & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF A LEVY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DOGS (89%); INSANITY DEFENSE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SHOOTINGS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); BOOKSTORES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (68%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



76 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Ukrainian Steel Mill Seeks Growth in U.S. Market

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MARIUPOL, Ukraine

 BODY:
From sleek European-designed offices, Sergei A. Taruta, works long hours trying to insure that the towering Stalin-era steel mill outside his window is a winner and not a loser in the industrial shakeout under way across the former Soviet Union.
Mr. Taruta, the deputy foreign sales director at Azovstal, one of the old union's largest steel plants, thinks he has found part of the solution: selling steel plate and slabs to the United States. 
 This year, Azovstal will send 40,000 tons of steel plate to America, a small amount, but Mr. Taruta is confident it will jump to 200,000 tons next year.
 
A Niche Market
 The decision by the International Trade Commission in Washington last week that most of the steel plate from Europe and Latin America is subject to anti-dumping duties continues to give Ukraine, a new exporter to the United States, a niche for carefully calibrated sales. This is because while duties on the steel plate of the kind that Ukraine makes were upheld, Ukraine as a newcomer to the American market, is not affected by the ruling.
"We'll increase exports to the United States but at the same time we're trying to be reasonable in not disturbing the internal market of the United States," said Mr. Taruta, who by now is well schooled in the sensitivites of American steel manufacturers. "We plan to be very careful."
The export of steel to the United States from Ukraine, the world's fourth-largest steel producer, became possible last year when Ukraine was granted, along with the Commonwealth of Independent States, most-favored-nation status by Washington. The decision meant duty charges on Ukrainian steel dropped from 23 percent to 6.5 percent.
Thus, on Azovstal steel priced at about $280 a ton the duties are now about $17 a ton instead of $67, according to Michael Ratzker, a senior trader for Metallia Ltd., a London-based international steel-trading company and one of Azovstal's main foreign customers.
Ukraine's prices are competitive with some East European countries, like Poland and Romania, but these countries have had to stop shipping steel to the United States because of anti-dumping measures, Mr. Ratzker said.
"Azov produces good quality plate, they are competitive price-wise and they don't have these anti-dumping measures and if carefully handled can avoid them," Mr. Ratzker said, whose company is also shipping Ukrainian steel to the Far East. Two or three other Ukrainian mills and two mills in Russia were exporting to the United States, Mr. Ratzker said.
The suavely attired, 38-year-old Mr. Taruta and his offices with remote controlled shades and black leather chairs are intended to send a signal to foreign buyers that Azovstal is serious about acting in the modern and competitive world beyond the old Soviet perimeters. But Mr. Taruta's problem lies with the rust-colored, badly polluting plant that sits immediately outside his smart, air-conditioned office suite.
With an antiquated, enormously overstaffed plant situated in an economically precarious country in an era of declining steel consumption, the transition for Azovtal will be extremely difficult.
Last year's production of seven million tons of steel will drop to four million tons this year, because of crippling coal strikes in the nearby Donbas region in June and shortages of available iron ore, Mr. Taruta said.
 
'They're Complacent'
 Still, Mr. Taruta and some Western steel experts believe that Azovstal has a better chance of survival than most of the 10 steel works in Ukraine, a heavily industrialized republic that produced about 40 percent of the Soviet Union's steel needs.
"Not that many mills in this country are willing to change," said Karl McKeever, an American metallurgist who inspects the quality of Ukrainian steel for foreign buyers. "They're complacent and they've been making to Russian specifications forever. Azovstal does much better."
Mr. McKeever said that like the steel mills across the former Soviet Union, Azovstal still operated open-hearth furnaces. He said most of the plant's newest equipment, dating from the 1960's, was of old technology even then. But even with these handicaps, Azovstal had proved adaptable by producing steel for export that met international specifications rather than the Russian specifications, Mr. McKeever said.
Concepts of productivity have not yet arrived at Azovstal. When asked how many man-hours it took to produce a ton of steel -- compared, for example, with the three man-hours a ton at the Burns Harbor plant of Bethlehem Steel -- Mr. Taruta looked blank. "We don't have this one; we don't have the methods to calculate," he said.
There are 25,000 workers at the plant, about 10,000 of whom are involved in such nonsteel activities as running the plant's huge hospital, holiday houses, shops and stadium, according to Mr. Taruta.
 
New Laws
 And while the plant has attained certain amount of freedom from the central Government in Kiev, there are new laws that are most unhelpful, he said. "I would like to see a new politics and new economics in Ukraine so we could improve the situation. The laws that have been adopted do not contribute to the well-being of the economy."
The Government, which is dominated by former Communists, requires Ukrainian enterprises to convert half the hard currency it earns abroad into coupons, the new and virtually worthless Ukrainian currency. This requirement, according to Ukrainian and Western businessmen, has led to large-scale capital flight with most of the dollars that are earned abroad staying abroad.
The newest part of the Azovstal plant is the metal-cutting shop built in 1973 that stretches for about a mile. About 1,800 workers are assigned to the shop but in July, shortly after the coal miners' strike, the shop was virtually idle and only a handful of workers could be seen operating the vast expanse of machinery.
"We're working at one-third capacity," a foreman said. "Maintenance is suffering because of lack of money and specialists." But the situation was better, he said, than at Mariupol's other steel mill, a 120-year-old plant he described as "hardly ever working."
Mr. Taruta said he knew Azovstal, with its good access to world markets because of its location on the Sea of Azov, which leads into the Black Sea, was working against the odds. "Ukraine doesn't need so many steelworks because they do a lot of harm to the environment; they can't produce the competitive product and the market will not allow their existence," he said. "More than half the enterprises will have to close."
About his own plant, he said, "I'm a pessimistic optimist."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Azovstal, one of the former Soviet Union's largest steel plants, in Mariupol, Ukraine, will send 40,000 tons of steel plate to America this year. Section foremen checked piles of continuous cast steel slabs made for export. (James Hill for The New York Times) (pg. D1); The Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Ukraine. That nation is the world's fourth-largest steel producer; "We'll increase exports to the United States, but at the same time we're trying to be reasonable in not disturbing" America's internal market, said Sergei A. Taruta, Azovstal's deputy foreign sales director. (Photographs by James Hill for The New York Times) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US) AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; UKRAINE; MARIUPOL (UKRAINE); UNITED STATES UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM) IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); MARKET SIZE (89%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: TARUTA, SERGEI A MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



77 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Macy Pessimistic on July After Hitting June Goals

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
R. H. Macy & Company reported yesterday that its financial performance in June met the goals outlined to creditors as part of its continued operation under bankruptcy court protection. But the retailer warned that July's official results would probably fall short of its targets because of "declining consumer confidence in its primary markets."
As a result, Macy's said in its monthly report to the United States Bankruptcy Court, it is "approaching the fall season very cautiously." 
 In June, before deductions for interest payments, taxes and certain noncash expenses such as depreciation, Macy's earned $12.2 million, compared with a similarly measured loss of $7.4 million in June 1992. After allowing for those taxes and expenses, the retailer lost $40.8 million in June, compared with a loss of $64.7 million in the same month last year.
All told, monthly sales rose 3.1 percent from June 1992 and the comparable-store sales, excluding the effect of stores that have been closed, increased 1.5 percent.
 
Fifth Month on Target
 June was the fifth consecutive month that it hit its financial targets. But July, the final month in its 1993 fiscal year, is likely to break that string, the company cautioned.
The roots of that pessimism can be seen in the details of June sales. While the company saw some sales strength in Florida, Texas and Georgia, results were only slightly stronger in Northern California, and remained depressed in the Northeast, the heart of its market.
July results were also likely to suffer by comparison with last year's numbers, the company said, because of a change in strategy for its annual preseason sale, a two-week event that has helped raise July sales in the past. This year, as part of a shift away from special sales events, the company scaled back the scope of that sale and, thus, the impact it should have on the month's figures.
The forecast of a weaker July did not seem to unsettle the market for Macy's publicly traded junk bonds. According to M. J. Whitman & Company, a specialist in bankrupt securities, the bonds were priced at 36 1/2 cents on the dollar of face value, about where they had been all last week, and volume was very light.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (97%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (77%); FLORIDA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MACY, R H, & CO INC MACY'S INC (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (77%); FLORIDA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; FORECASTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT RETAILERS (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (61%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



78 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Dissident, in the U.S., Says Embargo Is a Mistake

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 29

 BODY:
In ardently spoken five-minute bursts, Cuba's most prominent political dissident often finds himself railing these days against the disaster he says is looming over his country.
But rather than attacking the Government of Fidel Castro, a target of his criticism for more than two decades, the dissident, Elisardo Sanchez Santa Cruz, has spent much of his time during a rare visit to the United States reproaching Washington for what he sees as its immutable determination to isolate his country through a 30-year-old economic embargo. 
 With Cuba facing its worst economic and political crisis since President Castro's revolution in 1959, Mr. Sanchez says, it is time for Washington to expand its long-frozen ties with Cuba to better influence events there.
"Cuba is like a volcano waiting to explode," said Mr. Sanchez, who repeatedly used similarly dark images in an interview in the Miami offices of an exiled friend and colleague in the country's human rights movement.
"If the United States policy is not less simplistic and more farsighted, when the explosion comes you can multiply the turmoil that you have seen in Haiti by 100 to get an idea of what things will be like there."
Touring the United States, Europe and Caribbean countries, Mr. Sanchez has sought to convince all who will listen that a violent tragedy could unfold in Cuba if the economy is encouraged to unravel while Mr. Castro, 66, clings to power.
"We are only 90 miles away from you, and whatever happens in Cuba will have serious national security consequences for the United States," he said. "It is time to realize that by maintaining open hostility, the United States is helping Castro. The external enemy is the best friend of the totalitarian dictator."
Mr. Sanchez said the United States should encourage change in Cuba just as it does in China, through commercial ties and expanded contacts between citizens, while continuing to apply diplomatic pressure for observing human rights and for political changes.
In Miami, where opposition to Mr. Castro among Cuban-American exiles often edges toward hatred, many have received Mr. Sanchez's message with suspicion. Some ask why it is that the 49-year-old dissident is only now receiving an exit visa from his Government five years after applying for one.
Having spent nearly 9 of the last 12 years in Cuban jails and suffered a severe beating in December by police agents who raided his home in Havana because of his outspokenness, Mr. Sanchez treats such suspicion with calm disdain.
 
Currency Plan Criticized
 "The Government has its agenda and I have my own, which consists of seeking greater international support for human rights in my country and helping contribute to a peaceful transition," he said. "It is important for people in both countries to understand that whatever actions I take are independent of any Government."
As if to prove his independence, Mr. Sanchez harshly criticized plans announced by Cuba recently to legalize the possession of dollars for ordinary citizens and encourage visits to the island by Cuban-Americans.
"Anything that reduces the totalitarianism of the state is for the good," he said. "But the Government is not doing any of this out of a desire to change the system. Rather it is looking desperately for funds to finance its system of repression."
When asked why, given his suspicion of Havana's motives, he opposed American sanctions against his country, Mr. Sanchez said: "The embargo against Cuba is not the cause of the country's problems. They result from three decades of neo-Stalinist policies, and this is what will cause Castro's downfall."
"The boxer who fights in a rigid style is more easily beaten," he said. "Change is coming to Cuba, and if Washington could learn to be more flexible, its opponent would fall of his own accord."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Cuba is like a volcano waiting to explode," said Elisardo Sanchez Santa Cruz, left, Cuba's most prominent political dissident, shown outside a Miami cafe. "If the United States policy is not less simplistic and more farsighted, when the explosion comes you can multiply the turmoil that you have seen in Haiti by 100 to get an idea of what things will be like there." With him was Omar Castro, owner of the cafe. (Tom Salyer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); HAITI (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); HAITI (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); TRENDS (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; SANTA CRUZ, ELIZARDO SANCHEZ; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



79 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Shorter-Term Treasury Issues Slip

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Yields on short- and intermediate-term Treasury issues edged higher yesterday, while the 30-year bond's yield slipped, as traders reacted to a reduction in the Government's borrowing plans and hints of new inflation.
The Treasury Department said yesterday that its estimated borrowing needs in the third quarter would total $58.3 billion, considerably less than the $90 billion to $95 billion it estimated on May 3. 
 That news, in advance of tomorrow's announcement of the details of the Treasury's quarterly refunding of 3-year, 10-year and 30-year securities, caused some traders to reconsider their strategies. The refunding will be held next week.
 
 
Treasury's Needs
 "A lot of people are starting to cut back their estimates of what the Treasury needs to raise in the refunding," said Steven R. Ricchiuto, chief financial economist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities Inc. in New York.
Mr. Ricchiuto said that in particular, traders were anticipating that fewer 30-year bonds would be sold by the Government than previously expected. The anticipated lower supply pushed the price of the long bond up 4/32 of a point, while its yield slipped to 6.55 percent, from 6.56 percent on Friday.
But prices of shorter-term Treasury issues slipped and their yields rose on concerns that inflation might re-emerge. Alan Levenson, money market economist at UBS Securities Inc. in New York, said an increase in the Commodity Research Bureau index, a measure of commodity-price inflation, in addition to some positive economic news, set off fears that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates to curb inflation.
The index was up 3.66 points, to 222.92, with most of the commodities measured higher for the day, Mr. Levenson said.
Inflation erodes the value of existing bonds, which pay fixed rates of return.
In a separate report, the National Association of Purchasing Management said its purchasing managers' index, which measures the strength of the manufacturing economy, rose to 49.5 percent in July, a slight improvement from 48.3 percent in June.
Signs of economic strength, traders worry, may clear the way for the Fed to raise interest rates because there would be less concern that the move would send the economy back into recession.
"That all gives you a fear factor," Mr. Levenson added. And traders took that as an excuse to sell shorter-term Treasury securities.
Prices of short-term Treasuries fell 2/32 to 6/32 of a point, while intermediate-term issues dropped 5/32 to 7/32 of a point.
The Treasury's weekly auction sold $12.2 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 3.1 percent, the same as last week. It sold $12.3 billion in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 3.25 percent, up from 3.24 percent last week.
"There wasn't any surprise in the result," Mr. Levenson said.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose three basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 3.05 percent. The discount rate on six-month bills also rose three basis points, to 3.21 percent. And the discount rate on one-year bills rose four basis points, to 3.42 percent.
The Federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was 3.25 percent, up from 3.07 percent late Friday.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 101 22/32, up 1/32 from Friday. The average yield to maturity was 5.76 percent, down from 5.78 percent Friday.
Following are the results of the Treasury's weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.216	98.357	Discounted Rate	3.10%	3.25%	Coupon Yield	3.17%	3.35%	High Price	99.216	98.362	Discounted Rate	3.10%	3.24%	Coupon Yield	3.17%	3.34%	Low Price	99.221	98.357	Discounted Rate	3.08%	3.25%	Coupon Yield	3.15%	3.35%	Accepted at low price	72%	45%	Total applied for	$47,517,085	$45,262,764	Accepted	$12,213,738	$12,312,563	N.Y. applied for	$44,162,331	$42,221,363	N.Y. accepted	$10,850,144	$11,406,812	Noncompetitive	$1,302,929	$1,011,446	

Both these issues are dated Aug. 5, 1993. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 4, 1993, and the six-month bills on Feb. 3, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since April. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SERVICES LTD (56%); BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD INV MAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



80 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Lawyer Sets Insanity Plea In L.I. Case

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, L.I., Aug. 2

 BODY:
In a move that came as no surprise to prosecutors, the lawyer for Joel Rifkin, the unemployed landscaper suspected of killing 17 women, said today that he planned to use an insanity defense based on several psychiatric examinations of his client that occurred in July.
Robert Sale, Mr. Rifkin's lawyer, declined to discuss the doctors' findings or any other details of Mr. Rifkin's mental condition, but he said that the evaluations "confirm the propriety and efficacy of such a defense." Mr. Sale added that he was not conceding that Mr. Rifkin had committed any of the murders and that the insanity defense was one of a number of arguments he would be using. 
 Under New York State law, the insanity defense requires that Mr. Sale prove two points. First, he must show that his client suffers from a mental disease or defect. And second, he must convince the jury that because of this ailment, Mr. Rifkin lacked the capacity to know what he was doing or to recognize that it was wrong.
Asked about Mr. Sale's announcement, Ed Grilli, a spokesman for the Nassau County District Attorney, Denis Dillon, who is most likely to prosecute the first case, said, "We're optimistic that we'll be able to prove our case beyond a reasonable doubt."
 
Raising a Possibility
 David Rosenhan, a professor of law and psychology at Stanford Law School, was extremely skeptical that such a defense would work, though he said Mr. Sale had few other options.
"It's something that any responsible defense attorney must raise as a possibility," Professor Rosenhan said. But he added that the facts of the case, as he understood them from newspaper reports, led him to believe that Mr. Rifkin was not a strong candidate for such a defense.
"One gets the impression of a set of murders that occurred with tremendous mindfulness," he said. "This is someone who knew what he was doing and carefully planned it out. None of this seems to match the the current criteria for the insanity defense."
Mr. Rifkin's only hope is that the "prosecution doesn't do its homework," Professor Rosenhan said.
The use of the insanity defense all but guarantees that the case will involve psychiatrists testifying for both sides, and that the trials, assuming there is more than one, may add up to thousands of dollars in bills for expert witnesses.
 
More Psychiatric Tests
 As required by New York State law, Mr. Sale said he would formally notify the prosecution of his plans to use the insanity defense at the next hearing on or about Aug. 16, so that the prosecutors can schedule their own psychiatric evaluations of Mr. Rifkin. In the meantime, Mr. Sale is continuing to arrange for psychiatric examinations of his client.
Mr. Sale used the insanity defense once before successfully in a case in which another client, Mate Ivanov, killed his wife, three children and dog with a bayonet.
The lawyer said that when a defendant is found not guilty by reason of insanity, he is institutionalized until a panel of psychiatrists rule that it is appropriate for him to be released.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS INSANITY DEFENSE (93%); LAWYERS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); MURDER (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); EVIDENCE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); EXPERT WITNESSES (76%); TESTIMONY (64%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; SALE, ROBERT; RIFKIN, JOEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



81 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rebound as Dow Gains 21.52

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
The stock market rebounded yesterday from Friday's slump, as worldwide expectations grew that the European currency crisis would lead to lower interest rates in Europe -- a move that would probably mean a long-term improvement in export markets for American companies.
Also cited by analysts as reasons for yesterday's gains were the recovery in 30-year Treasury bonds, favorable data from the National Association of Purchasing Managers and general anticipation that President Clinton's deficit-reduction proposals would be passed by Congress this week. As a result, the mood on Wall Street was generally upbeat and all of the major market indicators advanced. 
 "The global environment has taken a positive step in terms of less confusion and a clear direction toward an international economic recovery," Steven Resnick, senior investment strategist for Cowen & Company, said. "So investors were more inclined to buy stocks than to sell them."
The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 21.52 points to close at 3,560.99, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 major stocks increased 2.02 points, to 450.15, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 2.96 points, to 707.66. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was moderate, with 230.4 million shares changing hands and advancing stocks outpacing decliners by a ratio of about 3 to 2.
The gain in the American markets mirrored advances throughout the day in most other foreign markets. Investors overseas seemed to share the same perception that a breakdown in Europe's Exchange Rate Mechanism would push down interest rates there and thereby stimulate economic growth on the continent.
Automotive issues were strong yesterday on the New York exchange, spurred by a favorable article in Barron's magazine and a report from General Motors of a 9.9 percent sales increase in the mid-July period. This brought the overall automobile industry gain for that period to 11.7 percent.
All of the Big Three auto makers were on the Big Board's 10 Most Active list yesterday. G.M., the second most active, was up 1 1/8, to 48 3/4; Chrysler, the third most active, was up 1/2, to 43 3/4; and Ford Motor, the seventh most active, was up 1 3/4, to 54 1/2.
Another gainer on the most active list was the Student Loan Marketing Association, or Sallie Mae, up 1 5/8, to 49 1/8, after rising 1 7/8 in the previous trading session. The company is likely to be a major beneficiary of a Congressional staff decision last Friday to remove or cut fees on secondary market buyers of student loans that might have been imposed under the proposed new plan to replace the current guaranteed student loan program.
Merck & Company, which announced last week the acquisition of Medco Containment Services, was the most active stock and inched up 1/8, to 30 3/4. Bristol-Myers Squibb, one of two more drug stocks on the list, fell 7/8, to 53 3/4; Johnson & Johnson, the other, rose 7/8, to 37 3/8.
Some of the housing-related stocks on the New York exchange were propped up by low interest rates and the affordability of homes. Centex, a home builder, advanced 1 1/4, to 37 1/4, while Shaw Industries, a carpet manufacturer, rose 7/8, to 39 5/8.
Similarly, multiline insurance companies have been participating in an upward cycle and some stocks in this category yesterday gave evidence of that activity. Chubb moved up 5/8, to 92 1/8, and Aetna gained 1/2, to 58 7/8.
There was also strength among large-capitalization stocks with good earnings momentum. Traders mentioned Motorola, up 3 3/4, to 94 3/8, and the American International Group, up 2 1/8, to 94, as among the companies that performed well yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (69%); MRK (PAR) (60%); MRK (NYSE) (60%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%); SLM (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) COWEN GROUP INC (69%); MERCK & CO INC (60%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); SLM CORP (51%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



82 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: True Recovery In 3 Regions

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Only the Mountain, Midwest and Southern regions of the country have truly recovered from the recession, according to an analysis released yesterday by the Conference Board, a New York-based corporate-sponsored research organization.
Its latest quarterly analysis showed that since the 1991 national economic recovery began, regional economies had performed differently. 
 The Mountain, West North Central and three Southern regions have not only recovered, but most have also far exceeded their pre-recession peaks, the board said. Those areas tend to be lower-cost areas, where manufacturing jobs are growing despite the national decline.
Other regional economies -- in particular the Middle Atlantic, New England and Pacific regions -- remain in a slump, the organization said.
In the Northeast and on the West Coast, business and population migration trends -- from California to the Mountain region and from the Northeast to the Southeast -- are a major force shifting economic activity and growth, it added.
The Conference Board bases its findings on its newly developed regional performance indexes. For each region, the barometer indicates the direction and growth of gross regional product. It is a statistical blend of five economic indicators: housing permits, employment, consumer confidence, retail sales and help-wanted advertising.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD CONFERENCE BOARD INC (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); SOUTHERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (69%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



83 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Despite Drop, Gold Prices Are Expected to Go Higher

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Gold prices retreated slightly yesterday, after hitting their highest levels in nearly three years in early trading. Many dealers said they expected prices to go even higher.
Many investors have been turning to gold as a safe haven in reaction to the turmoil in the European Monetary System. Early yesterday, finance ministers of the European Community agreed to allow weaker currencies in the system to fluctuate within a much wider range than in the past. 
 "Currency instability is one more factor weighing in gold's favor," one gold dealer said.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery slipped $1.10 an ounce, to $405.90, after trading as high as $409. The most active gold contract, for December delivery, traded as high as $414 an ounce, its highest level since September 1990. It later dipped on profit taking to close at $410.20, down $1.10 from Friday's close.
 
 
Other Precious Metals gain
 Other precious metals advanced. Platinum for October delivery closed up $4.20 an ounce at $423.10 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, its highest in two and a half years. Silver for September delivery on the Comex closed at a three-and-a-half-year high of $5.458 an ounce, up 5 cents.
Analysts say the end of stable exchange rates in Europe through the Exchange Rate Mechanism should allow interest rates to fall, reducing the cost of maintaining inventories of gold. It is also expected to rekindle economic growth, which could lead to a resurgence of inflation -- all favorable for gold.
Political factors are also lending support. "From the E.R.M. mess to Clinton in Bosnia, it can only mean one thing -- higher metal prices," one dealer said.
Ever since the gold rally started in March, American investment funds have been driving gold higher through buying of futures and options. Dealers say the funds' next target will be to push gold through $420 and possibly $440 an ounce, even though prices might temporarily fall below $400 before moving higher.
"Gold has followed a clear pattern," a dealer said. "Rallies of $10 or $15, pullback and consolidation, then a fresh surge."
On other commodity markets, soybean prices shot up amid concerns that an early frost in the fall might curtail the harvest.
Many Midwestern crops have already been heavily damaged by relentless rains this spring and summer that delayed planting and development.
"Crops will mature anywhere from 10 to 25 days later than normal," said Paul Handler, a meteorologist for Atlas Forecasts, at a weekend conference in Denver. He said the later the crop, the more vulnerable it was to frost damage.
The National Weather Service predicted cooler than normal temperatures for the nation's midsection in the next 30 days, possibly presaging a frost.
 
 
'Even a Call for Rain'
 "There was even a call for rain to a certain degree in Iowa that wasn't expected," Mark Cermak of Prudential Securities said of the long-range forecast.
The cooler, wetter weather also prevents soybeans from producing as much oil, a factor that lifted soybean oil futures.
On the Chicago Board of Trade, soybeans for August delivery rose 19 cents, to $7.0425 a bushel, and August soybean oil rallied near the daily limit, closing 0.96 cent higher at 24.17 cents a pound. September corn advanced 4.25 cents, to $2.40 a bushel, and September wheat firmed 3.75 cents, to $3.0775 a bushel.
After the close of trading, state crop reports indicated that 45 percent of the soybean crop was in either good or excellent condition, up from 40 percent the previous week.
Elsewhere, energy futures posted modest gains. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for September delivery firmed 9 cents, to $17.97 a barrel; September unleaded gasoline edged up 0.01 cent, to 52.17 cents a gallon, and September heating oil rose 0.37 cent, to 51.18 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); DENVER, CO, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES GOLD MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); WEATHER (64%); METEOROLOGY (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



84 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Outlook: Still Tepid

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
The outlook for the nation's manufacturing sector improved only slightly in July, according to an influential survey of purchasing managers released yesterday.
The National Association of Purchasing Management in Tempe, Ariz., reported its monthly index of economic activity was 49.5 percent in July, compared with 48.3 percent in June. Under its method, any rating below 50 percent suggests that manufacturing contracted, even though numbers above 44.5 percent may indicate overall economic improvement. 
 The closely watched index is culled from the opinions of 300 executives who buy the supplies for their corporations. From its vantage point, the manufacturing sector is still in the doldrums.
If economic activity continues at its current tepid pace, the association predicts, gross domestic product will grow 2.8 percent in real terms in 1993, compared with 3.1 percent last year. Even that would not be possible were it not for strong showings in the first three months this year.
 
Just 'Treading Water'
 "Manufacturing has just managed to tread water during the last few months," said Robert J. Bretz, chairman of the association's business management committee and the purchasing manager for Pitney Bowes. "There's nothing in this report to change that picture dramatically."
He and others focused instead on the pickup in new orders, none of which involved exports. "What makes that impressive," said Bruce Steinberg, a senior economist with Merrill Lynch, "is that our domestic economy is strong enough to make up for some of the weakness" abroad.
At first glance, commodity prices were another bright spot, with more purchasing managers reporting higher prices than lower prices.
But economists and analysts said that the price increases were concentrated in three industries -- steel, semiconductors and agricultural products -- and were not likely to stick. Steel prices are already slipping after a trade ruling last week lifted many tariffs on imported steel. Semiconductor prices may also retreat once the Intel Corporation corrects the temporary shortages that have developed over its new Pentium chip. And firmer agricultural prices are less a byproduct of improved fundamentals than of Midwest floods.
 
Composite of 5 Indicators
 The purchasing index is actually a composite of five indicators, four of which flashed stronger signals last month. Purchasing managers in general reported that orders were up, supplies took longer to arrive, inventories were lower and production was higher in July than in June.
The one big piece of contradictory evidence was employment, which managers said was unchanged or falling. Only three of 20 industries in the survey reported otherwise.
Backlogs also appeared to be slipping, despite the jump in new orders, which Mr. Bretz called "the biggest surprise."
Sid A. Brown, a purchasing manager for a James River Paper Company plant in North Portland, Ore., attributed much of the inertia in his own industry to the Clinton Administration's not having promptly detailed the rules for industrial use of Federal land. "When you are sitting in the Northwest where a lot of raw material is paper, there's a lot of concern in this area," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (81%); PBI (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT INTEL CORP (81%); PITNEY BOWES INC (55%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP); FORECASTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); PAPER MFG (73%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (69%); IMPORT PRICES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); AGRICULTURE (63%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



85 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Construction Spending Surges for Month

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2

 BODY:
Spending on construction projects jumped 1.2 percent in June, the best showing this year, but analysts said today that the important residential sector was still not responding as it should to the lowest interest rates in two decades.
The Commerce Department report released today showed that spending on all types of construction rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $460.1 billion, an increase of $5.5 billion from May. 
 The advance was led by the biggest increase in Government spending in more than a year, a gain of 3.6 percent. That reflected a huge 9.3 percent rise in outlays for highways and streets. Private construction was up as well, reflecting strength in the residential sector, but by a much more modest three-tenths of a percent.
The overall increase was the biggest since a 1.3 percent rise last December. Spending rose 1.1 percent in May after posting two months of weak showings.
 
 
Low Rates Not Enough
 The Clinton Administration is counting on strength in sectors of the economy like construction that are sensitive to interest rates to offset the economic drag from the higher taxes and cutbacks in Government spending that are part of its huge deficit reduction plan. But economists say they have been disappointed that single-family construction has not picked up more than it has, given interest rates that are at their lowest level since the early 1970's.
In June, residential construction advanced nine-tenths of a percent with single-family construction up five-tenths of a percent and multifamily building rising 2.9 percent.
So far this year, the overall economy, as measured by the gross domestic product, has risen at the disappointing rates of seven-tenths of a percent in the first three months of the year and 1.6 percent in the recent April-June quarter.
 
 
Flood Rebuilding Ahead
 David Wyss, an economist at DRI-McGraw Hill Inc. of Lexington, Mass., said that the Midwest floods should eventually add to construction spending as flood-damaged structures were replaced but that the floods would likely depress activity until it was dry enough for rebuilding to begin.
The 3.6 percent increase in public construction lifted that category to an annual spending rate of $125.6 billion. It was the biggest one-month increase since a 4.8 percent rise in May 1992 and was led by a 9.3 percent rise in spending on highways and streets.
Nonresidential spending, which came in at an annual rate of $89.5 billion, dropped 1.3 percent in June, reflecting widespread weakness. Spending on industrial projects was down 3.5 percent, office building outlays were off 3.8 percent, and hotel and motel construction fell by 6.1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION (93%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); FLOODS & FLOODING (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



86 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Layoff Law Impact Is Almost Nil

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Four years and millions of layoffs after Congress enacted the plant closing law of 1988, which required many companies that chopped 50 or more jobs to give their workers 60 days' notice, the law seems to have had virtually no impact.
While few people took literally the Democrats' assertions that the law was a great victory for America's working men and women -- or President Ronald Reagan's warning that it was the "the most anti-competitive, anti-employee, anti-business pieces of legislation to come along in a long time" -- many Americans expected that laid-off workers would have the time to look for new jobs or retrain, and that communities affected would have the time to seek new businesses. 
 But things did not turn out that way. Take the case of Veronica A. Fox, a sewing machine operator at the Pennshire raincoat plant in Portage, Pa., for 30 years. She was notified just hours before her job was eliminated on Jan. 22; a week later, the management posted a curt handbill that read: "We would like to take this opportunity to thank you for giving us many years of loyalty and to wish you the best success in your retirement or new endeavors."
 
No Severance or Vacation Pay
 Within a couple of weeks, all 79 workers at the plant were gone, with no severance and no vacation pay. Pennshire has declined to comment on the layoffs; the workers and Cambria County, Pa., have filed suit.
As it happens, the fraction of workers who get more than a month's formal notice is no higher than before the law passed, said John Addison and McKinley Blackburn, labor economists at the University of South Carolina who conducted a broad study of the law's impact. "We find no effect whatsoever," Professor Addison said, after analyzing the Government's biennial survey on displaced workers.
Why has the law fallen short of its goals? Too many loopholes, too many exceptions and virtually no enforcement, its critics say. The law applies only to companies with 100 or more employees and to layoffs where more than a third of the work force at a particular operation is involved. It also exempts distressed companies that are trying to find buyers or fresh funds or are facing unforeseeable circumstances like natural disasters.
Entire industries, including shrinking ones, are not covered because of the exclusions. The country's 22,000 clothing factories, for example, employ an average of 52 workers each.
 
For Some Workers, Less Notice
 The labor economists' study found that 8.2 percent of laid-off workers received a month's notice or more since 1988; in the five years before the law, 8.6 percent said they received such notice. Slightly more than half the workers whose jobs were eliminated -- 51.4 percent -- reported that they had received no notice, a modest increase from the 47.5 percent in the five years that preceded the law.
The results were even more stark than those of a fairly downbeat report released in February by the General Accounting Office. The report, limited to 11 states, found a small increase in the proportion of employers who gave advance notice.
"Many workers who are permanently laid off aren't part of a large-scale layoff," said Ronald Ehrenberg, an economist at Cornell University. "Many are laid off from small firms or firms exempted from WARN," as the planting closing act is known, an acronym for the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act. "The other problem," he said, "is that there's no enforcement."
 
Loopholes for Companies
 Julie H. Hurwitz, the executive director of the National Lawyers' Guild/Maurice and Jane Sugar Law Center for Economic and Social Justice in Detroit, a national clearinghouse for WARN cases, said, "Experience and time have proven to the benefit of those who choose to ignore the law or to take advantage of its various loopholes."
Many companies give workers advance warning, often years ahead. Among those that have done so are Kroger, General Motors, I.B.M. and Procter & Gamble. But many other companies have provided little or no notice. The St. Johnsbury Trucking Company, of Holliston, Mass., for example, one of biggest trucking companies in the Northeast, recently laid off more than 4,000 workers the day before it filed for bankruptcy.
"On June 14, people came to work and, by the end of their shift, the company was closed," said Frank A. Braman, a senior software specialist with 24 years' experience at St. Johnsbury, who has been kept on to wind down the company's computer operations. "The employees received virtually no notice, no severance pay, no vacation or sick pay. Management said, 'The company's closed, you're done, goodbye.' "
Executives at St. Johnsbury said the company was exempt under a provision that permits a faltering company to avoid giving notice if it undermines its ability to raise funds or find a buyer.
And there is the case of the Acuson Corporation, a manufacturer of diagnostic ultrasound equipment, which is based in Mountain View, Calif. As sales for medical equipment weakened at home and abroad, the company laid off 250 employees, mostly production workers. "We gave no notice," said David Ringler, the director of corporate communications. But, in contrast to St. Johnsbury, the company said it gave workers three months' severance pay and extended their health insurance for five months.
 
A Scaled-Down Bill
 The original legislation, sponsored by Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, and Representative William D. Ford, Democrat of Michigan, was much more far-reaching than the version that passed. It called for six months' notice and applied to layoffs of 25 workers or more and to any company, regardless of size.
"The law that was passed included so many exceptions that it covers only a small portion of layoffs, perhaps 10 percent," said Jim Benn, the executive director of the Federation for Industrial Retention and Renewal, a Chicago-based network of community groups that opposes plant shutdowns. Indeed, the General Accounting Office found that half the mass layoffs involving more than 50 employees were not covered.
Even though Emery Worldwide cut 1,000 workers in 1991, said William L. Tomko, a former Emery driver with more than 10 years on the job in Pittsburgh, "we are the only terminal nationally that could file a suit under the WARN because the company had reduced the worker level under 50 at most terminals."
"Roughly six months after we were released," he added, "150 workers at the Dayton hub were terminated. They couldn't file a WARN suit because they did not represent one-third of the work force at that hub."
Another problem is that no agency, including the Department of Labor, has the authority or resources to enforce the law. So fewer than 125 cases have been initiated, and those settled, Ms. Hurwitz said, "you can count them on one hand."
 
A Bid to Toughen the Law
 An effort to toughen the law is under way, with Mr. Metzenbaum and Mr. Ford preparing amendments much closer to the original legislation, their staffs said.
"Extending amount of notice automatically gives us a field to organize an alternative to a shutdown," said Mr. Benn of the Federation for Industrial Retention and Renewal. "Now it's legitimate because of WARN for Government to assume some kind of stewardship for the economic base of the community."
Markley Roberts, who tracks plant closings and large layoffs for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said: "We'd like to see more workers covered, we'd like to see more notice given, we'd like some enforcement beyond civil lawsuits. That's an expensive, cumbersome and totally ineffective way of enforcing the law.
"We're calling for enforcement by the Labor Department. We also think there ought to be a lot more information given to workers, unions and local communities about the existence of the law."
But most businesses have opposed any widening of the law.
"We believe the current law is adequate," said Peter Eide, the manager of human resources law and policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce in Washington, one of the business groups that fought against the 1988 law.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We find no effect whatsoever," said John Addison, right, who with McKinley Blackburn conducted a study of the plant closing law of 1988 requiring many companies that chopped 50 or more jobs to give workers 60 days' notice. The labor economists talked recently at the University of South Carolina. (Wade Spees for The New York Times) (pg. D2)
 
Graph: "Notifying Workers"
 Percentage of laid-off workers who received a month's notice or more, before and after the enactment of the plant closing law of 1988.
 
Before ('83-'88) -- 8.6%
After ('88-'91) -- 8.2%
 
(Source: University of South Carolina) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ST JOHNSBURY TRUCKING CO INC (65%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAYOFFS (LABOR); DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS LAYOFFS (92%); CLOSINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA RONALD REAGAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



87 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Molitor Gets Chance This Time Around

BYLINE: By Murray Chass

 BODY:
The last time the Yankees and the Toronto Blue Jays were so close to each other and played a meaningful series this late in the season was in 1985. They played two series in September that season, the first one in New York, the second in Toronto that ended the season and made the Blue Jays American League East champions. The New York series made Dave Winfeld Mr. May.
Paul Molitor was not a part of those games. He spent September mired in the depths of the division, wallowing with the rest of the Milwaukee Brewers up to 31 games behind the leaders. Baseball economics, however, have conspired to make Molitor a part of the confrontation that began at Yankee Stadium last night. 
 "With so many games to go, you don't want to overmagnify it," the Blue Jays' designated hitter and sometimes first baseman said, noting that this is early August and when the four-game series is over Thursday, the Yankees and the Blue Jays will still have to play more than 50 games each.
"But," he added, "it's a chance for them to make a statement, and slow us down a little bit. I'm sure it will be a good atmosphere. It hasn't been this way for a while."
It was this way in September 1985. The Blue Jays arrived at Yankee Stadium for a four-game series two and a half games ahead of the Yankees and promptly lost the first game. But the Blue Jays had their way with the Yankees the rest of the series. The turn of events was too much for George Steinbrenner.
In the eighth inning of the third game, Steinbrenner plopped down in the press box next to a reporter and reeled off a series of negative batting statistics he had instructed his public relations department to compile. Winfield, in the owner's view, was one of the major culprits.
"Where is Reggie Jackson?" Steinbrenner asked. "We need a Mr. October or a Mr. September. Winfield is Mr. May."
Steinbrenner spent Winfield's entire 10 years with the Yankees speaking ill of him. Bud Selig never said a bad word about Molitor.
"Our relationship was strained, particularly immediately following the change," Molitor said, discussing his departure from Milwaukee, where he had spent his entire 15-year career and developed an unusually close relationship with Selig, the Brewers' owner. "But I went to see him in his office when we were there and then we met again in Baltimore the day before the All-Star Game. It's back to where I'm comfortable seeing him. We can talk about things again -- why I left, why they didn't keep me. We have a pretty good understanding of what happened."
Molitor and Selig became victims of the growing controversy over the major leagues' small-market and large-market clubs. The small-market clubs say they can't compete financially with the large-market clubs and point to players like Molitor as examples. The Blue Jays offered Molitor $13 million for three years. Selig wouldn't even offer himself that kind of deal.
"I believe that he would like to have kept me in Milwaukee," Molitor said. "But I also respect the position he's in as a small-market owner. He couldn't meet what the market said one of his players was worth. I told him I would've stayed for less than I got here, but the difference was too great."
So instead of being in last place or in a position to help the Brewers avoid last place, Molitor came to New York in first place with the Blue Jays. He has had much to do with getting them there.
He is hitting .324, among the top six averages in the league; is leading the league in runs scored with 85 and multi-hit games with 41, and is trailing only his teammate, John Olerud, in hits with 135. And at an age that in 19 days will become 37, he has contributed 17 stolen bases in 20 attempts to a team that with Rickey Henderson joining the relay team has three of the top seven base stealers in the league.
"You make a transition like this," Molitor said, "and naturally there is going to be some pressure. But my expectations of the city, my teammates and the franchise all have been surpassed. I feel very good about my choice. I'm having some fun."
Molitor, however, knows better than most that this season's races have a sober side, a dark side, some would say. As much a veteran of baseball's bargaining table as he is of baseball fields, Molitor is a member of the Players Association's executive subcommittee and will participate in negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement.
With talk of a possible players' strike next month, the contenders for division championships have to wonder whether they will play for the league pennants and World Series championship. In other words, the Blue Jays and the Yankees could be playing this series for nothing. The best time of the baseball year could be eclipsed by matters of revenue sharing, revenue participation and salary caps.
"The compensation system can be looked at, but a salary cap doesn't have to be the answer," Molitor said. "As an industry, baseball generates enough revenue to compensate the players. Radical changes aren't necessary. Putting a cap on salaries just gives money back to the teams that give up money to the small markets from their local revenue."
The fight over revenue, though, is for another time. This week it's the fight for first place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: TORONTO BLUE JAYS MILWAUKEE BREWERS BASEBALL CLUB (55%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (57%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (57%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); ATHLETES (70%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; MOLITOR, PAUL BUD SELIG (60%); GEORGE STEINBRENNER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



88 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS;
Small-Screen Feud, Majors' Big Picture

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
Imagine this: the Mets and the Cincinnati Reds are playing a crucial pennant-race game (all I said was imagine, all right?) at Shea Stadium, but neither team lets the other broadcast the game back to their home cities.
All that -- and much, much more! -- is possible if a quiet time bomb within the National League isn't defused. 
 Our zany baseball story of the day began last year when five small-market teams gave notice that the 1956 National League TV agreement was kaput as of 1994. The pact provides the reciprocal framework that allows teams to air each other's games and establishes financial arrangements among them.
If reciprocity goes the way of Ladies' Day, the potential for chaos is immense. Maybe the Dodgers and the Padres won't air each other's games, or the Cubs and Astros will prohibit each other's broadcasts.
Perhaps the Padres will only find friendly broadcast relations with its four compatriots in this affair, the Pirates, Astros, Expos and the Marlins. Two others, the Reds and the Cardinals, are sympathetic to the cause.
"Chaos is possible, but I prefer to look at it constructively, that people of good faith can come to an agreement," said Claude Brochu, the Expos' president, who added that the 37-year-old TV agreement needs a total overhaul.
"I'd hope that this doesn't happen," said Brent Shyer, broadcasting director of the Dodgers. "We want to have something that works out so we have an agreement, but a lot of dialogue has to take place."
Even more tantalizing than the chaos that may be engendered is the political message of the agreement's abrogation, a message of revenue-sharing.
The league agreement calls for each team to contribute 25 percent of its local cable TV revenues into a shared pool. The dissident teams want more local cable money shared. They also want to divvy up money from local over-the-air broadcasts for the first time.
(An oddity of this contretemps is that the wealthy Dodgers currently have no cable deal, while the discount Padres do. Thus, the Dodgers now reap monetary benefit from the Padres' cable cash.)
This issue is part of the small market versus big market battle being waged in baseball, although the Marlins and Cardinals don't qualify as small markets. The small markets contend that they can't compete, that they can't sign the biggest stars, unless they get a chunk of the wealthier markets' revenues.
To the small markets, and to Dick Ravitch, the owners' labor negotiator, baseball can't thrive without an all-encompassing revenue-sharing mechanism that creates labor peace and economic stability.
Coincidentally, Ravitch will try to gain approval of his revenue-sharing proposal during owners' meetings next week in Sheboygan, Wis. If he succeeds there, he will then have to persuade the ever-suspicious players union.
It is possible that the revenue cravings of the dissident National League teams will be sated via Ravitch's plan. But if owners nix it, the National Leaguers' cash yen will remain a ticklish issue, at best.
"What we're proposing dovetails with what Dick Ravitch is working on," said Brochu.
Bill Giles, owner of the Phillies and a member of the major league broadcast committee, said: "My position is there should be increased revenue sharing, but I'm not in favor if just television. All elements should be shared."
(Well, that's one vote for Ravitch.)
There is one more facet of this tempest: superstations. Most clubs are fed up with the geographic influence of the Braves and Cubs through their WTBS and WGN superstations, which are beamed to cable systems around the country.
The National League agreement could not foresee the superstation phenomenon. The agreement described into which geographical areas teams could broadcast into, and does not have provisions for a Chicago station being seen everywhere.
Brochu was cagey about what the dissidents want regarding superstations, but one could imagine they'd like to scale back their spheres of influence. Said Brochu: "Rather than call it a superstation issue, it's more of a geographical invasion issue."
And upon what spaceships did the aliens land, monsieur?
 
 
 
AIRWAVES
 The coming Winter Olympic assignments will cause CBS's pro football announcing assignments to shuffle a bit. JAMES BROWN will shift from calling several games with the newly hired DENNIS BYRD to doing others with HANK STRAM. DICK STOCKTON will work with Stram, but also with DAN JIGGETS, DAN FOUTS and RANDY CROSS. . . . On the subject of Yankee Stadium, MSG Network's DEWAYNE STAATS said Sunday: "If there's something wrong with this park and this area, why not improve this park and this area?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (73%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LEAGUE CINCINNATI REDS (73%); CINCINNATI REDS (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (91%); NEW YORK METS (84%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); CHICAGO CUBS (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE CINCINNATI REDS (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (91%); NEW YORK METS (84%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); CHICAGO CUBS (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); OHIO, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; TELEVISION BASEBALL (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



89 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Meal Tax to Aid Miami's Homeless

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 2

 BODY:
Metropolitan Miami will soon begin imposing a 1 percent tax on restaurant meals to finance programs for the homeless, an action that experts on homelessness say breaks new ground but that the tourist industry opposes.
The move is a response to a Federal court order that Miami provide help for its homeless. 
 The tax, which was unanimously approved last week by the Dade County Commission and goes into effect on Oct. 1, is intended to underwrite medical treatment and job training programs for homeless people, and to build low-cost housing and temporary shelters.
The new effort will be run largely by a not-for-profit corporation made up of representatives of the private sector and religious and advocacy groups, as well as the homeless themselves.
 
Turnabout in Attitudes
 "This is an impressive, innovative, first-of-a-kind program," said Mayor James Scheibel of St. Paul, the head of the United States Conference of Mayors task force on hunger and homelessness. "Miami is addressing the causes of homelessness instead of passing anti-homeless legislation. We need services and affordable housing for the homeless, and when you look at the Federal budget, the money is obviously not all going to come from Washington."
Dade County's decision to levy the tax is a turnabout in attitudes toward the homeless, stemming from last November, when a Federal judge ordered the Miami to create "safe zones," where the homeless could eat, sleep, bathe and cook without fear of arrest.
The ruling said Miami's "custom and practice of driving the homeless from public places" was unconstitutional. In his ruling, Judge C. Clyde Atkins of Federal District Court strongly criticized Miami's policy of "arresting the homeless for harmless, involuntary, life-sustaining acts" in the city's streets and parks.
The order has been stayed pending appeal, but it has prompted the county and city authorities to adopt its alternatives to establishing arrest-free zones for the homeless.
"This is a much more humane and reasonable choice," said Paul Johnson, director of Camillus House, the city's best-known shelter. "I think our leaders have finally gotten the message that government must step up and accept its responsibility."
Under the county ordinance, all restaurants that serve alcoholic beverages and have annual sales of $400,000 or more will be required to collect the tax from their customers. The county commission estimates that the new tax will generate about $7.5 million in revenue in its first year.
 
County Spends $7 Million
 In contrast, Dade County, with about 6,000 to 10,000 homeless people, spends about $7 million a year on the homeless, including about $5 million in grants from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Miami spends about $400,000, officials say.
The budget of Camillus House is about $4 million a year, Brother Johnson said. New York City, with a homeless population estimated at 90,000 by advocacy groups, spends an estimated $500 million a year on them, city officials said.
The restaurant tax has been criticized by some civic tax abatement groups, as well as by community organizations concerned that the three new 500-bed shelters in the plan will be built in their neighborhoods. But the loudest complaints have come from restaurant owners, who say their business, squeezed by a flat economy, will suffer unduly.
"We oppose this all the way, not because we're not empathetic to the needs of the homeless but because it is totally discriminatory and irrational to have only restaurant patrons pay for this," said Manny Mighdoll, executive vice president of the Florida Restaurant Association. "One percent doesn't sound like a lot, but this is going to have a negative impact not just on fine dining restaurants but also on the bulk of family and neighborhood places."
As of the end of 1992, there were slightly more than 6,700 licensed restaurants in Dade County, about half of which are authorized to serve alcohol, Mr. Mighdoll estimated.
Only "a few sandwich places" are likely to be exempted from the tax, he said, adding that retirees and other "people on fixed incomes who eat in restaurants out of necessity" will also be affected.
 
Some Fear Government Plans
 Other residents who opposed the tax when the county commission held hearings last month say they also fear an expansion of government programs will swell the population of the homeless here. If the new programs succeed, they contend, the homeless will flock here and overwhelm the effort, dooming it to failure.
When asked how the police would deal with homeless people who do not wish to participate in the program but who also refuse to leave, Alex Penelas, who is chairman of the county commission's committee on housing and homelessness, admitted bafflement. "What that means from an enforcement point of view, I don't know," he said.
As envisioned by the task force that drafted the new policy, the initial phase of the plan would place the homeless in shelters for up to 30 days, where they would receive free lodging, food and medical care. They would then go into a wide array of treatment and training programs that would include job training, addiction treatment and mental health counseling.
That second phase would last six to nine months, or longer if necessary.
In the final phase of the program, expected to be in place within three years, homeless people would be placed in low-cost housing provided by not-for-profit corporations and, it is hoped, they eventually would be able to fend for themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DADE COUNTY (FLA); MIAMI (FLA) UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; HOMELESS PERSONS; RESTAURANTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION HOMELESSNESS (96%); LEGISLATION (90%); COUNTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); MAYORS (76%); ORDINANCES (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); TOURISM (72%); APPROVALS (71%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (69%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



90 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BILL: A Fading Call to Arms;
Clinton Wins a Crucial Fight on the Deficit, But Some of the Sense of Mission Is Lost

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2

 BODY:
President Clinton took office with three goals for the economy. He wanted to reduce the annual budget deficit, stimulate the economy to create jobs and redirect the priorities of the Government.
In his speech to a joint session of Congress last February laying out his economic program, the President called for tough choices and shared sacrifices, for fundamental changes that he said would make the tax system fairer and direct Government spending to the programs where it would do the most good. "Our nation needs a new direction," he declared. 
 If Congress approves the legislative compromise that House and Senate negotiators struck today -- a probability but by no means a sure bet -- then the President will have achieved the first of his goals, reducing the annual Federal deficit. This is a serious, credible, mostly gimmick-free bill that should make the deficit significantly lower over the next five years than it otherwise would be, saving the country billions of dollars in interest payments on the national debt.
But the President's two other goals -- stimulating the economy and changing priorities -- have fallen by the wayside, at least for the time being. And with them, to some extent, has gone the dream, the vision, the call to arms.
 
Memories of Bush
 For one reason or another, Mr. Clinton has failed to overcome the inertia of the established political system. The bill Congress will vote on later this week bears a striking resemblance to the budget agreement that President George Bush and Congress struck in 1990.
On economic stimulus, the President's $30 billion, two-year spending plan died in Congress last spring. It was killed by a Republican filibuster. But many if not most Democrats were unenthusiastic. It simply seemed illogical to many to throw more money at the same kinds of projects the Government had been spending billions on for years at the same time that Congress and the President were straining to lower the budget deficit.
As for changing priorities, the deficit-reduction measure would reverse the tax trend of the Reagan years, when taxes on the wealthy went down and those on others went up. But spending directions would be changed only sightly. The bill falls short of what the Administration wanted in terms of tax help for the working poor, investment incentives for businesses, additional money for food stamps, tax breaks for companies in poor neighborhoods and funds for childhood immunization and family support.
 
How New a Course?
 The military budget would be cut sharply, and some of that money would be spent for education, nutrition and other areas that got short shrift in the Republican years. But the ambitious new programs Mr. Clinton advocated in his election campaign for new roads and bridges, communications and information networks and environmental technology are nowhere to be found. If the nation is on a new course, it is hardly perceptible.
Gene Sperling, a top economic adviser to the President, said that deficit reduction had to come first and that the other priorities would be met later.
"All of the things Bill Clinton talked about in the campaign as far as investing in people are still in line to happen," Mr. Sperling said in an interview. "By taking control of the deficit, he has kept control of his agenda."
Maybe so. But it is hard to escape the parallels between this budget measure and the one Mr. Bush signed three years ago. Like that agreement, the new measure would lower the deficit from what it would otherwise be by nearly $500 billion over five years. As was the case then, this would be accomplished largely through increased income taxes on the wealthy, a modest rise in the gasoline tax, reduced military spending and limits on the growth of Medicare spending through lower rates for doctors and hospitals.
 
Attractive in the Abstract
 The same, familiar path was taken because it is the easiest way politically to get from here to there and because the route was mapped by essentially the same Democratic Congress that traveled it in 1990.
It is the way, perhaps the only way, to take a bite out of the deficit without affecting the vast majority of Americans. All that middle-income working Americans would be asked to pay in the name of deficit reduction is a few more dollars a year for gasoline at a time when the price at the pump, adjusted for inflation, is the lowest in decades.
Shared sacrifice sounds attractive in the abstract. In the specific, it is viewed as bad politics.
Ronald Reagan changed the core of American politics with his pain-free approach to paying for Government, and Mr. Bush followed in the same vein. Now, as the columnist Michael Kinsley has written, Mr. Clinton has "bought into the central lie of American politics -- that our problems can be solved without asking anything of the middle class."
 
Promises and Setbacks
 Mr. Clinton was elected on the campaign promise to cut the taxes of the middle class. Of course, he reneged and actually proposed an across-the-board energy tax that not only would have raised more than $70 billion over five years but also would have had some benefits in terms of conservation and the environment.
When Congress eviscerated the energy tax, the President took the setback in stride. Even with the new budget legislation, the national debt would grow by $1 trillion over the next five years. But Mr. Clinton is still saying publicly, though few believe him, that he expects to recommend middle-income tax relief during his term.
There are further deficit-reduction steps that most economists, regardless of ideology, believe would be wise: requiring wealthy retirees to pay a larger premium for health insurance under Medicare; abolishing Government programs that have outlived their purpose and continue to exist only because a small number of people and communities depend on them; eliminating duplication and overlap in Government agencies; scrapping tax breaks for business entertainment and vacation homes.
But each of those measures would be fought to the death by lobbyists and by lawmakers whose constituencies might suffer. Republicans and Democrats in Congress oppose them with equal vigor.
 
Lots of Constituencies
 The problem, said Mr. Sperling, the White House economic policy assistant, is that "any program that exists has a constituency."
But no one lobbies for raising taxes or cutting programs. There is no constituency for that.
This is why Mr. Clinton's supporters say he deserves so much credit. He stepped up with real deficit-cutting proposals based on real numbers -- not the gimmicks and black boxes of the Republican years. He did not have to be dragged to the table the way George Bush was.
The President's plan was bound to be unpopular. While he failed in some aspects, he got much of what he wanted. And perhaps next year he can get more, and the next year even more.
If Congress approves this package, the new President will have won a partial victory. By any measure, that is better than a defeat on the most bedeviling issue in American politics today.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the opening yesterday of their meeting on the budget resolution, Democrats met at the Capitol, at top. From left were Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Representative Dan Rostenkowski, Speaker Thomas S. Foley, Senator George J. Mitchell, majority leader, Senator Jim Sasser and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. The Republican leadership later announced its acceptance of a basic compromise on the package. Representative Robert H. Michel, left, listened to Senator Bob Dole. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); TAX RELIEF (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FILIBUSTER (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); TRENDS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); APPROVALS (73%); FAMILY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (50%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



91 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BILL: Back Home;
Letter Writers Lay Down Their Pens as Vote Nears

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2

 BODY:
Though some members of Congress are wringing their hands over whether to vote for a budget bill that includes higher energy taxes and other contentious items, they are, to their surprise, not hearing a lot from their constituents.
And with a few significant exceptions, Washington's major lobbying organizations are mounting only limited campaigns against the proposal -- or none at all. 
 Representative Mike Synar of Oklahoma is a strong supporter of the Clinton budget, but he is troubled by the gasoline tax endorsed by the Senate-House conference committee that has just reached a compromise on a five-year budget bill.
But when he was back in his home district a couple of weeks ago, talking to constituents at town meetings and in other settings, "almost nobody brought it up," he said. "They were concerned about all sorts of other things."
Amy Weiss Toby, an aide to Mr. Synar, said: "People were worried about health care. They were coming to his town meetings handing him their hospital bills." As for faxes, mail and phone calls from lobbyists, she said, "Right now it's just a trickle."
 
Interest Ebbs
 Senator David L. Boren, another Oklahoma Democrat, complained last week that he was getting 10,000 letters a day about the budget proposal. He was one of several members of Congress who suggested recently that pressures from lobbyists and unusually high levels of concern from voters back home were forcing them to reconsider whether to vote for President Clinton's budget. He announced Sunday he would not vote for the budget.
But Dan Webber, an aide to Senator Boren, said the volume of mail and phone calls coming into the office "has slackened off in the last two weeks." As for the Senator's comment, Mr. Webber said: "That was true, up to two weeks ago."
Indeed, many Senators and Representatives and their staffs said they have been surprised about how little pressure they seem to be getting from anyone to vote one way or another on the budget bill.
There are big exceptions. In California and a few other states, a battle over the budget has developed among Democrats, Republicans and followers of Ross Perot. And some Texans say their constituents are quite concerned about the proposed increase in the gasoline tax -- both because Texas is an oil producer and because many of its residents drive long distances.
Two months ago, when the budget bill was being considered in the Senate and the House, most members reported extraordinary interest, both from lobbyists and the public. The experience of Senator John B. Breaux, the Louisiana Democrat, was typical.
"We were getting just an enormous amount of mail, and phone calls," said his aide, Bette Phalen. "We were bringing volunteer help and interns into our district office to handle the phone calls."
Much of that mail was generated by the American Energy Alliance, a coalition of more than 1,000 businesses and associations opposed to the broad energy tax in President Clinton's original budget bill. But that proposal is no longer a part of the budget bill, so the American Energy Alliance is inactive.
"We're not doing anything," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, the lead member of the coalition. "We don't anticipate being actively engaged" in the remaining budget debate.
Some other lobbyists, however, are still engaged. As an example, the American Trucking Association is lobbying against the gasoline tax. Ken Simonson, a senior economist for the association, said 50 staff members were taken off their normal jobs so they could run a phone bank. "They're calling all our motor carrier members saying, 'Look, if you care about a gas tax, call today,"' he said.
Mr. Simonson said he found five other associations or trade groups willing to lobby against the proposed tax increase, and they are making calls to their members. But by recent standards, this campaign is relatively modest. The truckers have not set up toll-free phone numbers or bought advertising. Nor do any of the associations appear to be trying to broaden the campaign beyond their own constituents.
At the same time, the American Association of Retired People is continuing to rally its members against new limits on Medicare and Social Security benefits proposed in the budget.
"But it's nothing particularly new," said John Rother, a senior lobbyist. "We're trying to achieve a steady stream" of calls and letters to members of Congress. But the association is not buying radio, television or newspaper advertisements.
A few other groups, including the Christian Coalition, are trying to make their displeasure known. But the biggest lobbying effort is coming from Citizens for a Sound Economy, a conservative organization based in Washington that says it has 250,000 members nationwide. It is opposed to tax increases of any kind and has bought buying advertising intended to influence what it considers wavering senators from six states: Wisconsin, Nebraska, Arizona, Nevada, Georgia and Louisiana.
"It's a major push," said Jeff Nesbitt, spokesman for the organization. But so far, it does not appear to be having much effect.
In Louisiana, for example, Senator Breaux described the mail and phone calls coming into his office late last week in this way: "There's still a lot of interest, and it's mostly negative, but it has slowed down. People wrote once, and now they feel, 'O.K., I've done my deal.' "
Another Louisiana legislator, Representative W.J. (Billy) Tauzin, a Democrat, caused a bit of stir last week when he made it clear he could not vote for an energy tax. But he said, "We're not hearing a whole lot on the gas tax from constituents, or from lobbyists." Still, he added, "I don't have to hear from constituents on a gasoline tax to know that it would be awful for Louisiana."
On Friday, Beth Gonzales, press secretary for Senator Bob Kerrey, a Nebraska Democrat who is among the targets of the Citizens for a Sound Economy's campaign, said: "There are little blurbs of people calling in when the they see the ad from C.S.E. But it's low key. Interest has really died off since May."
Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, helped shape the debate on the budget when he made it clear that he would not support an increase in the gasoline tax of more than 4.3 cents a gallon.
An aide to Mr. Kohl, Lynn Becker, said that a reporter from a Wisconsin newspaper wanted to follow the Senator around for a day back in the state last month, to see what Mr. Kohl was hearing from constituents. Questions and comments would be mainly about the budget, the reporter thought.
"But," Ms. Becker said, "the things they approached Senator Kohl about were across the board, on every issue, not really about the budget. The reporter came back here and told us that he didn't really hear enough to write anything."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GASOLINE (75%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



92 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Ross, Still Bobbing and Weaving

 BODY:
You'd think that by now Ross Perot could keep a few basic facts in his very own head. We're not asking for much, just a few numbers that would help ordinary folks understand how he intends to do the one thing he says Bill Clinton can't do, which is to bring the budget deficit to zero. After all, this is a man who's been talking economics day and night for two years, usually with a pointer and charts. But without the charts, Mr. Perot can't remember a thing.
The funny thing about those charts is that they're never there when somebody else wants to consult them. They're always within easy reach when Mr. Perot wants to show the weaknesses in Mr. Clinton's ideas. But ask him a pointed question about his ideas and darned if he didn't leave his charts back on the kitchen table. 
 Mr. Perot's charts first mysteriously disappeared in May on the "Today" show. Bryant Gumbel tried to pin him down on what he'd cut to balance the budget. Mr. Perot said: "If I had known you wanted them, I would have brought my charts."
Last Sunday, on "Meet the Press," Mr. Perot brought the charts he wanted but not the charts anyone else wanted. At the beginning of the show he said Congress should forget the Clinton deficit-reduction plan because it wouldn't do the job, "and I got the charts here to show you."
His interrogators wanted to know what Mr. Perot would do differently -- specifically, how he would carry out his 1992 campaign pledge to cut $141 billion from Medicare and Medicaid. "Well," he replied, "if you had told me that you wanted that, I would have come in with a very detailed list and given it to you. I don't have the list with me."
"We're not talking about some piddling little details," complained one panelist, noting that the Medicare and Medicaid cuts represented half of Mr. Perot's proposed reductions. To which Mr. Perot replied, "If you had told me in advance that you wanted it, I would have brought my charts. . . ."
Mr. Perot has been suffering memory lapses and bristling at people who pester him for inconvenient specifics ever since he surfaced on the political scene early last year. So this latest exchange would hardly be noteworthy were it not for two stubborn and irritating facts.
The first is that he remains a figure to be reckoned with. After betraying his followers by abandoning the 1992 race in midstream, he came back and won 19 percent of the vote, partly because he had some bold ideas but largely because he served as a magnet for voters discontented with both major parties. Recent polls suggest that his following is bigger than ever.
Which leads to a more disturbing fact: Mr. Perot is shamelessly and recklessly exploiting his popularity not to advance his professed cause of deficit reduction, but to sandbag the one plausible deficit-reduction plan on the table. Mr. Clinton's program is hardly perfect but at least it has a rough coherence and at least it's out in the open.
Should it survive, it will have withstood the sort of rough-and-tumble politics that Ross Perot professes to stand above but actually fears, having shrunk from political combat at nearly every turn. Mr. Perot's plan, meanwhile, remains unsullied. It's still on the charts, if anyone can find them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); MEDICAID (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



93 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
The Dinghy Of State

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER

 BODY:
Composed after deep immersion in news accounts of the clownish budget dispute in Washington:
Chairman Rostenkowski is from Chicago, which may explain why he may be indicted before it's all over, although of course he may not be. If he is it would be catastrophic for President Clinton's health-care program, or maybe it wouldn't, depending on what happened next. 
 In any event, President Clinton doesn't actually have a health-care program yet and may never have one. That's because Senator David Boren is sworn to veto anything the President proposes, though both he and the President are Democrats, as is Vice President Albert Gore, who cast the tie-breaking vote that overturned Senator Boren's last veto.
And what about Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, Democratic chairman of the powerful Senate Something-or-Other Committee? As Bismarck said of Talleyrand, so we too may say when pondering the Moynihan question, "What indeed about this great statesman?"
Meanwhile the Republicans are pledged to vote unanimously against absolutely everything. Though not necessarily everything down to the crossing of the last "t" and the dotting of the final "i."
After all, when Senator Robert Dole, the brilliant Republican Friend of the Taxpayer, was asked if the Republicans would even vote unanimously against Senator Boren, did Senator Dole not reply, "I refer you to what the Oracle of Delphi told Mithridates"?
Senator Dole's tendency to give these oblique replies to blunt questions irritates young Clinton staffers whose musical tastes run to groups like Fleetwood Mac. They assume Senator Dole is taunting them about their youth when he refers to old-timers like Mithridates and Oracle.
The real question, however, was the B.T.U. tax. Real or not, alas, the question was vetoed by Senator David Boren who threatened to veto the tax as well, no matter what the House of Representatives did.
The Black Caucus met. Ross Perot charged. At week's end another week had ended. Indecision ran rampant but also sat leadenly on both sides of the Capitol. President Clinton stumped.
Several more gigantic corporations "downsized," adding tens of thousands of loyal company men as well as loyal company women to the rolls of the loyal unemployed and once again making a mockery of President Clinton's campaign pledge to "grow the economy" and create more jobs.
Henry Salomon of Kaufman & Brothers saw little to cheer in the G.D.P., but Henry Brothers of Salomon and Kaufman was immensely cheered by the latest figures, while Salomon Kaufman of Henry, Brothers & Co. said he hadn't taken the G.D.P. seriously since people quit calling it the G.N.P.
It was unclear why the old-fashioned G.N.P. had been renamed the G.D.P. or what the renaming might mean for housing starts. With hundreds of thousands becoming unemployed every week because of the "downsizings," it was not clear either where the tycoons in charge of the "downsizing" expected to find well-paid employees to buy the products pouring out of their "downsized" plants.
Behind this nagging uncertainty was the heroic struggle of Senator Breaux Bummel, the Gasoline Purchaser's Friend, to hold any new gas tax to a maximum of 4.3 cents per car.
The entire Senate, Republicans excepted of course, closed ranks behind Senator Bummel's gas-tax cap, with several members pointing to a study of restaurant prices showing Americans are now paying $19 a plate for pasta as evidence that it would be cruel to make them pay any tax at all on gasoline.
Meanwhile, President Clinton stumped again, which was one stumping too many for Rush Limbaugh. On his radio call-in show, Limbaugh suggested the President might be using a Japanese stump and urged the economically hard-hit American stump industry to investigate.
Senator David Boren has taken the first step toward vetoing the President's stump. This has put the Republicans in a quandary. Since they are pledged to vote unanimously against absolutely everything, they would have to vote against Senator Boren's stump veto, which of course would amount to a vote for the President's stump.
Such are the agonizing dilemmas that engage our statesmen. Pathetic, is it not?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (76%); 

CITY: BISMARCK, ND, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: BROTHERS & CO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (76%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CAUCUSES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL BILL CLINTON (91%); DAN BOREN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



94 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Just Say No to Clinton's Package

BYLINE: By Ronald Reagan; Ronald Reagan, President from 1981 to 1989, heads the Reagan Center for Public Affairs.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Have you heard about the new White House "diet" plan? Maybe you've seen the Clinton Administration's television "infomercial" about this miraculous discovery. The diet is quite simple. You can eat anything you want, any time you want, as much as you want. It costs quite a bit more, but they guarantee you'll lose all the weight you want. The only catch is you won't see any weight loss for five years.
Does this diet make sense? Hardly! But it's about as logical as the deficit reduction scheme President Clinton is pitching. 
 The White House is flooding the airwaves in Washington, D.C., and several states with a slick television infomercial. Through this propaganda masterpiece, it is trying to persuade us to "feel good" and be "proud" about jacking up our taxes and feeding the insatiable Washington spending machine. It's time for the public to send a strong signal to the manipulators at the White House: "We won't be fooled."
The President's "wonder plan" could be cited for deceptive advertising by the Food and Drug Administration. Job-killing taxes come right away, and hazy spending cuts are on the distant horizon. The five-year plan will likely impede economic growth and not come near its claim of $500 billion in deficit reduction. And it will fall far short of its spending cut goal of $250 billion.
Every person in this country realizes the serious need to reduce the Federal deficit. There is no disagreement on this issue. But the tax-and-spend plan being shoved through Congress does not accomplish that goal. It is not a deficit reduction plan. It will only cause the deficit to increase and quite likely wreck any hopes for an economy recovery in the process.
But the White House feels that if it labels it a "deficit reduction plan" and talks as if it will reduce the deficit, somehow Congress will vote for it. And if the Clinton team beats the drum enough about what "political courage" it takes to vote for this "bold" plan, they feel they can make Congress feel good about it.
It has been more than five months since President Clinton's plan was presented to the public. And, as we have learned more about what's in it, public support for it has dropped like a rock. Virtually every economic indicator released since the public has had a chance to react to the plan has been negative. Consumer confidence is down. Despite lower interest rates in place from the last Administration, people are afraid to commit to purchasing homes. And, in poll after poll, Americans say more than ever before that our country is heading down the "wrong economic track."
When candidate Clinton promised to get this country moving, most Americans thought he meant forward. Instead, his Administration has gone backward on the economy, backward on reducing Government and backward on its promises.
All except one, perhaps. Candidate Clinton promised to "raise taxes on the people who did well in the 1980's." Since practically every American benefited from that era of low inflation and strong growth and since President Clinton wants to raise the taxes of nearly every citizen, I guess in a roundabout way this is a promise he's actually trying to keep.
He knows Americans have always been kind and generous. In war and peace, they have been willing to make great sacrifices to serve a greater good. Today, the White House is trying to appeal to this great quality by getting us to go along with the largest tax increase in the history of our country. But we shouldn't.
The fact is, there is no "greater good" in this plan. Despite the slick presentation, talented spin doctors and White House talking heads all over TV, the simple truth is that this plan is bad for America.
Recognizing their predicament, the bill's supporters have resorted to desperate arguments. I have heard from Democratic friends of the heavy pressure on the Democratic senators to vote for this bill because "the President has so much political capital invested in it" and a defeat would have "serious political conse- quences" for him. Since when does the political standing of any elected official count more than the well-being of our nation? Our economy is too important to be dealt this devastating blow because of White House fears about how a failure could make the President look.
His economic package was bad policy to start with and has only been further worsened by the myriad special-interest concessions added along the way. It is so flawed, the only reasonable alternative is to flatly reject it. Then, with a healthy dose of reality in mind, let the process start again. There is no "fine-tuning" or "refining" that can save this package.
The process must begin anew with real cuts in spending and a reduction in personal and business tax rates. The Democrats should be reminded that sharp reductions in tax rates created growth and prosperity in "our" 1980's and "their" 1960's.
Under the Clinton plan, people will be zapped with new taxes that take the incentive out of saving and investments (assuming they're left with any money to do so). Furthermore, the spending increases are a travesty. They just aren't needed and they are sure to dig us deeper in the deficit hole. Of course, there will always be new needs for Government spending, like Midwestern flood relief, but there are billions of dollars in various other Federal programs that can be redirected.
Over the years, I have been known as an optimist -- always believing that better days will lie ahead. But, right now, I have serious concerns about the future of America if this tax-and-spend plan becomes law. I fear for the loss of opportunities that Americans have always had to make better lives for themselves and their families. And I worry about America's place in the world if our economy falls into the deep doldrums that this program will certainly bring.
I urge each member of Congress to reject the White House pressure, refuse the special concessions the White House offers his or her constituents and stand firm in the face of special-interest lobbying. They should vote their conscience. Sometimes saying no can be a great act of statesmanship, not to mention a good way to start a sensible diet.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); INFOMERCIALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DIETING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



95 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 3, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BILL: On the Fence;
Clinton Seeks 1 'Yes' Vote From 6 Unhappy Democrats

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2

 BODY:
With Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma insisting he will change his vote and oppose the budget bill, President Clinton has to get at least one other unhappy Democrat to change his mind and support it.
Six Democrats voted against the Senate version of the bill in June, and with all of the chamber's 44 Republicans also in opposition, the measure passed only after Vice President Al Gore cast the tie-breaking vote. 
 The Republicans are still solid in their opposition, so the White House is looking to those six Democrats for the one vote it needs to counter Senator Boren's defection.
Most of the six have argued that no budget proposal emerging from the House-Senate conference would be likely to cut spending enough to win them over. And most also argue that it would raise taxes too much.
 
Clinton Lobbies 4 Senators
 President Clinton today sought to lobby four of the Democratic Senators indirectly, by giving interviews to editorial writers in their home states. But he left out representatives from the states of Senators Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey and Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, apparently regarding those two Senators as beyond redemption.
The bill's pain cuts most deeply for three of the six Senators who could be facing very difficult re-election campaigns next year: Mr. Lautenberg and Richard H. Bryan of Nevada and Dennis DeConcini of Arizona.
Mr. Shelby and the two other Senators do not face as early a test. But the two, Senators Bennett J. Johnston of Louisiana and Sam Nunn of Georgia, appear almost immovable as Mr. Shelby.
Senator Lautenberg, who held a news conference to announce that he would vote against the earlier bill, said recently it was "hard to imagine" that the bill would be sufficiently improved in conference to win his vote.
 
'More Taxes' Won't Help
 The two-term Senator said "both the House and Senate versions hit hard on middle-class New Jerseyans without creating the kind of economic growth and job expansion that we need."
Coming from a state where a political revolt against taxes swept Republicans to control of the Legislature in 1992, Mr. Lautenberg said: "New Jersey is really hurting. More taxes won't put people back to work or lift us out of the recession."
Mr. Lautenberg has not been particularly popular in his state and could suffer in next year's elections from the anti-Democratic sentiment prompted by Gov. Jim Florio's pushing through higher taxes in 1990.
New Jersey Republicans are waiting to see if former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, a popular figure, will challenge Mr. Lautenberg in 1994.
Senator DeConcini, who comes from one of the nation's most conservative states, has objected to the absence of a specific provision guaranteeing that additional taxes will go to deficit reduction, not additional spending.
House-Senate Conferees and Administration officials have been discussing whether such a guarantee could be made by executive order, since Senate rules will apparently keep it out of the bill.
Senator Bryan has told the President he would offer no opinions until he can study the final compromise bill, a spokesman said. But he has felt that the original bill did not have enough spending cuts, and he was unhappy at the shift from a broad-based energy tax to a higher gasoline tax. Mr. Bryan also fears that further cuts in Medicare will hurt his constituents, who have complained of earlier cuts, the spokesman said.
 
Seeking More Cuts
 Senator Nunn has said he is leaning against the conference report but will study it before he decides. But he wanted a bill covering five years, not 10. And another complaint, that it was too light on spending cuts, seems unlikely to be much changed by the House-Senate conference.
Senator Johnston has told the President not to bother lobbying him until he has had a chance to study the result. He had originally opposed the bill because of its broad-based energy tax, but stayed opposed even when it was greatly reduced in the Senate. He said too much of the bill's deficit reduction came from tax increases and not enough from spending cuts.
Mr. Shelby, who has voted with Republicans all year long on economic issues, is also unhappy with the ratio of spending cuts to tax increases, a spokesman said. Senator Shelby has also voiced concern that most of the spending cuts come after 1996.
Of course, the Administration also has to worry that no other Democrats who once voted yes will join Mr. Boren, a model of vacillation on this issue all year, and desert the bill. For example, several senators have joined Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska, in calling on the President to summon Congress to a 10-day special session to find more spending cuts.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about Democratic senators who initially voted against the budget plan referred incorrectly to reservations that Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia has about the measure. He said he would prefer a bill covering 10 years, not five.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); WRITERS (53%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BOREN, DAVID L (SEN); BRYAN, RICHARD H (SEN); DECONCINI, DENNIS (SEN); JOHNSTON, BENNETT (SEN); NUNN, SAM (SEN) ; LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN); SHELBY, RICHARD (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); RICHARD SHELBY (90%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (89%); DAN BOREN (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993



96 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11
 
DEMJANJUK MAY BE OHIO-BOUND
A U.S. Federal appeals court ruled that John Demjanjuk must be permitted to return to the United States. He was acquitted by the Israeli Supreme Court last week on charges that he was Ivan the Terrible, a brutal guard at Treblinka. A1
 
PERES PRAISES SYRIA
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel praised Syria today for its role in helping guarantee a cease-fire between Israel and pro-Iranian guerrillas in southern Lebanon. A7 

BOMBING THREAT GROWS BOLDER
A NATO threat to launch air strikes against Serbian forces in Bosnia was further bolstered by a United States announcement that bombing would begin if the siege did not end by early next week. A1
 
MEDIATOR BACKS ULTIMATUM
The senior mediator for the Balkans said NATO's threat of air strikes against Serbian forces showed that the alliance supported peace talks under way in Geneva. A8
 
Hope of peace dawns anew in a quiet Sarajevo. A8
 
TROOPS PLEDGED IN SOUTH AFRICA
South Africa's President is ready to send more troops to quell township violence, which has increased as talks to create a structure for democracy proceed. A2
 
KHMER ROUGE'S PRIVATE WAR
In what appears to be an effort to warn Cambodian factions that it would be dangerous to exclude the Khmer Rouge from the new coalition Government, the rebels have stepped up a campaign of post-election violence. A5
 
'A' IS FOR ABSTINENCE
What bothers the Roman Catholic Church in the Philippines is not "A" or "B" in Juan Flavier's ABC's of safe sex, but "C," for condoms, one of the Health Secretary's recommendations to the heavily Catholic populace.A11
 
FOOD TO LIBERIA HALTED
The United Nations special envoy to Liberia has asked Ivory Coast to bar secret shipments of food from crossing its borders into rebel-held territory in Liberia, where tens of thousands are starving. A10
 
Turkey gives up a dream of nurturing new Central Asian nations. A3
 
A Colombian gusher brings caution, not elation. A4
 
Buenos Aires Journal: Submerged by human hands or nature's? A4
 
National A12-17, B7-8
 
CLINTON PUSHES BUDGET
President Clinton appealed to middle-class taxpayers to support the economic plan facing a vote in Congress this week. A1
 
SEARCH INTENSIFIES FOR VOTE
The White House began beating the halls of Congress for the single Democrat to give the budget package victory in the Senate. A1
 
NEW JERSEY DEMOCRAT BOLTS
Senator Frank Lautenberg rarely takes center stage. But the Democrat has put himself squarely there by announcing he will vote against the budget plan.A16
 
HIGH-INCOME FAMILIES REACT
The reaction of families with high incomes to the expected tax increases illustrates what economists have long said about tax increases on the rich: their behavior changes when their taxes do. A15
 
THE EFFECT ON CORPORATIONS
Corporations will feel the effects of the tax bill in two ways: as it directly affects the taxes they pay, and as it affects the economy's performance in the years ahead. A15
 
SENATE PASSES SERVICE BILL
The Senate passed the national service bill, the first of the major programs that Bill Clinton promised in his Presidential campaign. B8
 
EXPLOSION DESTROYS SAVINGS
The loss of an $800 million spy-satellite system in a rocket explosion wiped out most of the savings in the intelligence budget this year. A1
 
DENVER PREPARES FOR THE POPE
The arrival of Pope John Paul II is expected to draw nearly 500,000 visitors to Denver next week, and the city is gearing up. A12
 
A NEIGHBORHOOD DIVIDED
Philadelphia Journal: Troubled times have come to the Chestnut Hill neighborhood in the form a national toy-store chain. A12
 
OFFICERS TO BE SENTENCED
The police officers convicted in the beating of Rodney King could soon be behind bars. A12
 
FLOOD CLAIMS HISTORIC HAMLET
Despite Federal efforts to divert flood waters, the Mississippi washed over an Illinois village. B7
 
FEARING A TOURISM DROUGHT
Tourism officials fear that images of disaster will linger after Midwestern flood waters subside. B7
 
GINSBURG EASILY CONFIRMED
The Senate confirmed Ruth Bader Ginsburg to the Supreme Court by a vote of 96 to 3. B8
 
Education Page B9
 
Californians debate spending billions for private-school students.
 
Wellesley gets a new president.
 
Campus Journal: After a racial crisis, some painful introspection.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
TAPES OF SHEIK
Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman advised his followers to prepare carefully and to "go slow" about bombing buildings, according to Government transcripts of secretly taped conversations with an F.B.I. informer. A1
 
SEA GULL DROPPINGS IN WATER
Environmental officials say New York City's drinking water became polluted last week because of bacteria from sea gull droppings in a reservoir in Yonkers. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-10
 
Flinty, revered teacher of chefs. C1
At lunch with Peter Hook: The genial troubadour of mope rock. C1
WHOOSH! New superheroes liberate the old-boy network. C1
 
Health Page C12
 
Obstetricians divided over whether uterine monitoring helps.
Personal Health: The truth about love potions.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
City Ballet dismisses Suzanne Farrell. C13
China bans one of its most acclaimed films. C13
Film: "The Wedding Banquet." C18
Music: Contemporary series at Tanglewood. C13
The Pop Life C14
Ray Charles at Radio City. C17
Books: Book Notes C13
Bormann and Goring in two suspense novels. C17
Television: Imaginings about Robert Kennedy. C18
"Apollo Theater Hall of Fame." C18
 
Sports B10-15
 
Baseball: Coleman charged with a felony. B11
Yanks lose to Blue Jays. B11
Baseball: Coleman charged with a felony. B11
Basketball: Lewis's second doctor said to have been warned. B11
 
Obituaries D20
 
Eugene T. Maleska, crossword puzzles editor of The New York Times.
Martin S. Ackerman, lawyer and a businessman.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Europe beyond the franc.
Belarus, a model for Ukraine.
The Midwest needs help.
Selective ethics.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: The real jobless rate.
Joseph Brodsky: Blood, lies and the trigger of history.
Matt Rohde: The battle lines are always drawn.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Bridge C17
 
Crossword C17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (94%); LIBERIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (94%); LIBERIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); OHIO, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); APPEALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); GENOCIDE (87%); BUDGETS (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); RELIGION (69%); FAMILY (68%); STARVATION (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); 

PERSON: JOHN DEMJANJUK (90%); BILL CLINTON (75%); SHIMON PERES (72%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



97 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Titan Lost Payload: Spy-Satellite System Worth $800 Million

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
The explosion of a Titan IV rocket over the Pacific on Monday destroyed its secret payload, an $800 million spy-satellite system, wiping out most of the savings Congress took from the intelligence budget this year and damaging the nation's most expensive espionage program, Government and intelligence officials said today.
"Every penny we cut is gone," said a Senator who fought to cut an additional $700 million from the budget for spy-satellite programs requested by the Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey. The cost of replacing the destroyed system would exceed the savings wrung from Mr. Woolsey by the Congressional intelligence committees last month. 
 They said the highly classified system destroyed in the explosion consisted of a trio of solar-powered ocean-surveillance satellites, each about the size of a small car, used by the Navy to track foreign ships and listen to their communications.
Together, the satellites and the rocket cost at least $1 billion, making Monday's explosion the most costly space accident in monetary terms since the 1986 Challenger shuttle disaster. It will also cost the Central Intelligence Agency time and money as it struggles to rearrange programs to buy and launch new satellites, the most expensive intelligence-gathering systems in the world, Government and intelligence officials said.
They denied reports in the press that the rocket's cargo was an even more expensive satellite, code-named Lacrosse, that uses radar to take photographs from space.
Spy satellites now under development can cost up to $2 billion apiece. They cost so much because they are hand-made to exacting specifications -- like a two-ton Swiss watch -- and because they are built in absolute secrecy, requiring elaborate security measures.
 
Weighing the Value
 The new satellites, which can see through clouds and listen in on generals in bunkers, cost so much that Congressional intelligence committees and Mr. Woolsey spent hours behind closed doors this summer arguing fiercely over their future. In the end, Congress cut about $1.3 billion from Mr. Woolsey's $29 billion intelligence budget request.
The debate concerned the value of intelligence satellites over spies. While extraordinarily capable of tracking military movements, satellites cannot conduct conversations in bazaars, like a spy, or translate political broadsides or interpret economic data, like an intelligence analyst. And the cost of Monday's Titan IV explosion was roughly equal to the total annual pay of every spy and analyst at the C.I.A.
After the Challenger disaster, the nation's intelligence agencies relied solely on the Titan IV to launch satellites. But there will be no new launches of espionage equipment until the Air Force determines what went wrong with the rocket. The craft cost $200 million, according to the Air Force, though Congressional staff members say the figure is $360 million.
 
'A Catastrophic Failure'
 "I've got to ground the fleet," said Col. Frank Stirling, the Air Force's Titan IV program director. "I've got to understand what happened."
"We had a catastrophic failure," Colonel Stirling said. "The vehicle essentially blew up," 101 seconds after it was launched into a clear blue sky from Vandenberg Air Force Base, 140 miles northwest of Los Angeles.
The $10.4 billion Titan IV program was placed under review today by the Air Force, which has commissioned 41 of the rockets, more than half of which are completed or under construction. The contractor for the program is the Martin Marietta Corp., the largest aerospace electronics company in the world.
Colonel Stirling said the review could take several months. When the review is completed, the last remaining set of the ocean-surveillance satellites could be launched.
Monday's explosion and the suspension of new launchings may send shivers down the spine of the National Reconnaissance Office, the agency responsible for building and managing spy satellites.
 
Concerns at Agency
 "If I was at the N.R.O. or C.I.A., my first reaction would not be, 'Oh, my God, we've lost this vital ocean-surveillance capability,' but 'Oh, my God, we won't have any more launches until we find out what's wrong with Titan IV,' " said Jeffrey T. Richelson, author of "America's Secret Eyes in Space" (Harper & Row, 1990), one of the few authoritative books on spy satellites.
Tracking foreign navies has become a much less urgent intelligence mission since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Spy satellites that collect information over land are more vital to today's intelligence concerns, Government officials said.
Replacing the lost satellites would put some strain on the reconnaissance office's classified budget, which exceeds $6 billion -- more than three times the size of the State Department's budget and twice that of the C.I.A.'s. But debate over satellites is itself a strain for the office, because almost everything about it has been kept secret. As the office has become less arcane, Congressional overseers and independent analysts have become more aware of its shortcomings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NAVIES; TITAN (ROCKET); RECONNAISSANCE SATELLITES; ESPIONAGE; EXPLOSIONS SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (93%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (93%); ESPIONAGE (93%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); SPACECRAFT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (74%); NAVIES (74%); AIR FORCES (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (54%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



98 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
President Clinton appealed to middle-class taxpayers to support his deficit-reduction plan, which faces crucial votes in Congress this week. [Page A1.] The White House and senior Democrats searched for a single Democrat who might give the President's budget package a Senate victory. [A1.]
The Government's index of leading economic indicators rose only one-tenth of 1 percent in June, less than expected, and its decline in May was slightly larger than originally estimated. [D1.] 
 Corporations will feel the effects of the tax bill as it affects their taxes and the demand for their products. [A16.]
 
International
As European governments wrestle over currency union, there is unintended benefit for American banks: increased revenue from vast trading desks around the world. [D1.]
French and German economic officials put a positive face on a week of currency turmoil, pledging to restore stability. Germany lowered an interest rate, and the franc regained some ground. [D2.]
A large Colombian oilfield, with reserves estimated at 1.5 billion barrels, may be the nation's biggest economic bonanza. [A4.]
 
Companies
The F.C.C. voted to extend competition in local phone service by allowing smaller companies to use more of the networks run by regional Bell companies and other large local carriers. [D1.]
Georges Marciano, the French designer behind Guess? jeans, is leaving the $500 million apparel company that he and his three brothers founded 12 years ago. [D1.]
Hughes Aircraft is accused by the N.A.A.C.P. of violating Federal guidelines requiring Government contractors to diversify their work forces and managements. [D1.]
Roger Penske, the Indianapolis 500 race-team owner, plans to take the diesel manufacturer Detroit Diesel public. [D3.]
Intel and Unisys have agreed to develop new computer systems intended to replace large mainframe computers. [D3.]
Nutri-System's chairman said the weight-loss company would recast its outlets as health education centers. [D3.]
Zale abruptly lost two directors when its chairman resigned yesterday, the day after another board member died. [D3.]
Nike is starting a pilot program to recycle old sneakers into material for running tracks and tennis courts. [D3.]
Polygram Records said it would acquire Motown Records, the legendary music label, for $301 million. [D17.]
 
Business Technology
The Inference Corporation has developed a line of case-based reasoning software that can diagnose problems with Compaq Computer laser printers and tell the user how to fix them.[D4.]
A high-tech wardrobe's "fabric enhancements" protect wearers from problems as diverse as skin cancer and smelly socks.[D4.]
 
Markets
As investors awaited resolution of the budget debate, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 0.28 point, to 3,561.27. [D6.]
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond closed at 6.52 percent, a 16-year low. [D14.]
The dollar sank to another postwar low against the yen before rebounding. [D16.] Gold and silver sagged; platinum rallied. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Hazardous-waste disposal companies have run into a problem: There is not enough of the stuff to go around. Market Place. [D6.]
Anheuser-Busch faces a challenge to defend its marine parks from a film's implied criticism. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); NTRI (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); SIC3519 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NEC (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS812191 DIET & WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INFERENCE CORP (62%); DIRECTV (54%); DETROIT DIESEL CORP (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); NUTRISYSTEM INC (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); CLOTHING LABELS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (70%); APPAREL MFG (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (67%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (65%); TENNIS (64%); SPORTS (64%); AUTO RACING (63%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (53%); SKIN CANCER (50%); DIETING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); ROGER S PENSKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



99 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Trading Is Brisk as Dow Posts Small Gain

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
Stocks closed narrowly mixed yesterday, with profit taking and concern about the economic recovery constraining the type of sharp upward movement that marked Monday's market.
Many investors had one eye on Washington, where the budget debate appeared to be moving toward a conclusion and the other on Europe, where Monday's agreement to widen the trading ranges for European Community currencies allowed the Exchange Rate Mechanism to survive -- at least in name. The currency turmoil is sparking another debate as to whether the decline in European interest rates will be beneficial for American companies. 
 "The market was trendless," said Robert Turner, chairman of Turner Investment Partners, a Philadelphia money-management firm. "People were waiting to hear how President Clinton would address the budget plan in the evening."
 
A Fractional Advance
 The Dow Jones industrial average inched up 0.28 point, to close at 3,561.27 and the Nasdaq composite index gained 1.35, to 709.01. But the Standard & Poor's index of 500 major stocks fell 0.88, to 449.27.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was strong, with 253.1 million shares traded. There were 1,051 advancing issues and 920 stocks that declined.
Adding to the day's uncertainty was the release by the Commerce Department of the June index of leading economic indicators, which predicts the rate of economic growth for the next six months. The index rose just a tenth of a percent; economists had predicted that it would grow three-tenths of a percent.
The announcement yesterday of an agreement between Unisys and Intel to develop a series of advanced parallel processing computers pushed the price of both stocks higher. Unisys, among the most active stocks on the Big Board, advanced 3/8, to 10 1/4, while Intel, traded on Nasdaq, increased 3/8, to 53.
As the floods in the Midwest seemed to be easing, Wall Street turned its attention to some pollution-control companies that might profit from the cleanup. Browning-Ferris was up 1 1/8, to 24 3/4, and WMX Technologies was up 3/4, to 31 5/8.
Winn-Dixie, the largest food retailer in the South, announced record earnings on Monday -- and above analysts' expectations -- for the fiscal year ended June 30, and the stock rose 1 7/8. Yesterday the price soared 3 7/8 to close at 62 3/4.
Prudential Insurance said it would sell the bulk of its shares in Dr Pepper/Seven-Up, which went public in February. As a result of the anticipated dilution of earnings, Dr Pepper declined 3/4, to 17 3/4.
U.S. Healthcare rebounded 7/8, to 48, after sinking 1 7/8 on Monday when the company requested a 6 percent rate increase in New York and some analysts called the request inadequate. Yesterday, other analysts noted that the company's market share gains would be an important factor in earnings growth.
Another provider of health plans, Oxford Health Plans, also advanced, gaining 1 3/4, to 78 1/2. Oxford announced plans for a 2-for-1 split.
Primerica gained 1, to 55, after the financial services corporation held ameeting with analysts on Monday. The financial services company, which last month reported earnings that surpassed most Wall Street forecasts, completed the acquisition of the brokerage and asset management operations of Shearson Lehman Brothers from American Express at the end of last week.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (77%); 

COMPANY: TURNER INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); INTEL CORP (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (93%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BONDS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (63%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



100 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: As Colombia Oil Flow Spurts, So Do Worries About Money

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Oil has begun to flow from a large field with reserves estimated by British Petroleum at 1.5 billion barrels, and production is being accompanied by a lively debate in Colombia over what could be the nation's biggest economic bonanza ever.
Predictions vary from bright forecasts of prosperity to doomsday predictions of misspent funds, runaway inflation and wasted opportunities. 
 By 2000, Colombia could be exporting half a million barrels of crude oil a day from the field, at Cusiana, about 100 miles east of Bogota; current crude oil exports run about 200,000 barrels daily. The operating company is the British Petroleum Company, which has also surveyed a nearby field at Cupiagua, whose reserves B.P. estimates at half a billion barrels. The two fields are in Casanare Province.
The discovery has been described by B.P. and others as the largest in recent years in the Western Hemisphere; the last big find was the 10-billion-barrel reserve at Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, in the 1970's.
 
The Companies Involved
 The field is being developed at a planned cost of $7 billion by B.P., the Triton Energy Corporation of Dallas (each of which have a 19 percent interest) and the Total group of France (which holds 12 percent). The state-owned oil company, Ecopetrol, holds 50 percent.
Earnings from Cusiana, which could start to pour in by 1996, could reach $2.5 billion a year by 2000, and finally total $14 billion.
One troubling unknown is the ongoing battle between guerrilla forces and the Government. The rebels have been terrorizing several rural areas for a decade, including the region around the new oil finds, and despite on-and-off peace talks, no let-up is in sight.
Many in the Government have compared Cusiana to winning a lottery: If the money is well spent, it will create prosperity; if not, the winner will eventually be poorer than at the start.
"This country is used to regarding bonanzas with terror," said Guillermo Fernandez de Soto, president of the Bogota Chamber of Commerce, which represents about 25 percent of the country's businesses. "This makes us unable to take full advantage of them."
 
Monetary Conservatism
 Colombia's monetary policies have been conservative compared with the rest of Latin America. The country has never experienced hyperinflation, and in the 1980's, it had one of the highest, most stable growth rates.
But earlier, in the mid-1970's, a coffee bonanza created an unusually large pool of international reserves held by the private sector, beyond the control of the Government, and as money poured in, the peso experienced a 30 percent rise against the dollar.
Now, many fear a similar experience with oil. A very strong peso could put exporters at a disadvantage as the Government opens up the economy.
"The money that Colombians have abroad is worth three or four times the money from Cusiana," warned an economist, Antonio Urdinola, the Colombian representative to the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean. "Because of expectations of revaluation, money may begin to pour in now, provoking more revaluation."
Should such funds return to Colombia, drawn by a boom economy and a stronger peso, the Government could set up a stabilization fund with the oil income it gets through Ecopetrol's 50 percent share in Cusiana. The Government would in effect buy up the excess money flowing back so that a sharp rise in the supply of money does not fuel inflation.
There is also disagreement on whether part of the oil money should be used to pay Colombia's $13.8 billion in foreign debts. "It is a good idea to pay the debt but that depends on what the cost is and how much money there is," Development Minister Luis Alberto Moreno said.
 
Fear of One-Legged Economy
 Others caution against what they call a petrolization of the economy, similar to that which struck Venezuela in the mid-1970's when oil prices soared. They warn that no oil bonanza lasts forever, and that once prosperity begins to dwindle, the ensuing economic hardship could pave the way for a political crisis.
Even if such concerns are unwarranted, as the optimists have asserted, any oil bonanza could put Colombia on uncertain ground.
"The estimated reserves are modest in comparison to those in nations such as Kuwait, so Colombia cannot go ahead and build an oil-dependent economy and let other industries lag," Mr. Urdinola said. "On the other hand, that bonanza is big enough to change Colombia's economic perspective."
Despite these concerns, most officials and independent experts conclude that the debate is a sign that the money from Cusiana will be wisely spent. There is already consensus that whatever money is not allotted to the stabilize the peso should be used to develop communication and transport systems.

GRAPHIC: Map of Colombia show the location of Casanare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%); EC (NYSE) (84%); WDN (TSX) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%); ECOPETROL SA (84%); WALDRON ENERGY CORP (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; CUSIANA (COLOMBIA) COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRENDS (89%); CURRENCIES (83%); OIL EXPLORATION (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); LOTTERIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); PEACE PROCESS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



101 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: The White House;
CLINTON PUSHES FOR BUDGET, REASSURING PUBLIC ON TAXES AND VOWING ECONOMIC GAINS

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Declaring that "it would be irresponsible not to take decisive action" to reduce the budget deficit, President Clinton appealed to middle-class taxpayers tonight to support the economic plan that will face crucial votes in Congress this week.
"We're on the verge of breaking out of the old false choice between tax and spend and trickle down, between abandonment and entitlement," Mr. Clinton said. He brandished colored bar graphs to support his insistence that the plan is fair and includes genuine cuts in Federal spending. [Transcript of the President's address, page A14.] 
 The President, going over the heads of a reluctant Congress and appealing directly to the people, repeatedly emphasized that the burden of taxes in the budget would fall on the wealthy. Congressional negotiators reached agreement on the budget plan on Monday, but its fate is uncertain as it goes to a vote in both the House and the Senate.
The Republicans immediately struck back. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, appeared on television after the President's speech and criticized the budget compromise. [Excerpts, page A14.]
 
Fighting Hoarseness
 Mr. Clinton, occasionally fighting back hoarseness, appeared confident and optimistic during the 19-minute address to the nation, casting himself as a lone soldier fighting Washington gridlock to solve a problem he inherited when he took office. And he said there would be dire consequences if the plan did not pass.
"Now there are only two choices," he said. "Our plan or no plan."
Seated behind his desk in the Oval Office, Mr. Clinton portrayed his plan in historic terms, saying it had been decades since a President took action to break the economy out if its stagnation. He said he intended to "revive the American dream by restoring the American economy."
"No more something for nothing," Mr. Clinton said. "We're all in this together."
Mr. Clinton said he would sign two executive orders on Wednesday: one would require that all new taxes included in the package go toward reducing the deficit; the other would put controls on annual spending in Federal entitlement programs, something demanded by Democratic moderates who wanted deeper spending cuts.
This week's budget battle was only part of an agenda of change, he said. Holding a chart showing how his plan would gradually reduce the Federal budget deficit to about $202 billion a year from $285 billion this year, he said the welfare and health care systems must also be overhauled.
He vowed to end welfare "as we know it," and asserted, "If you want the deficit to go down to zero, as I think most of you do, we have got to challenge the health care system."
Senator Dole took aim at Mr. Clinton's use of statistics and portrayed the budget plan as emphasizing new taxes rather than spending cuts. Natural growth in the American economy would create more jobs over the next four years than the President promised through Congressional passage of the budget, he said.
Mr. Dole also contended that the Federal deficit would skyrocket in the three years after 1997.
The President, whose prime-time address was broadcast live by the networks, outlined a plan developed by his advisers to improve his political standing by emphasizing the battles to come.
Aware that the struggle to get the budget bill passed may leave him looking battered, at least to some voters, the President and his aides sought today to trumpet impending victory loudly enough to drown out naysayers.
As he prepared for this week's decisive House and Senate votes on the compromise, Mr. Clinton spent the day polishing and rehearsing his speech. He consulted with a small army of advisers, including Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen; Leon E. Panetta, the President's budget director, and Robert E. Rubin, director of the National Economic Council.
Mr. Clinton also met with Gov. David Walters of Oklahoma, presumably in the hope of swinging the vote of Senator David L. Boren, a disaffected Democrat, and with reporters from Nevada, the home of Senator Richard H. Bryan, a Democrat who voted against the budget when it was before the Senate.
 
Themes to Promote
 In every venue, Mr. Clinton pounded home what he has settled on as the most persuasive elements of his plan: that it is fair and that it does a responsible job of reducing the deficit by a total of $496 billion over five years.
But neither in person nor on the telephone did the President appear to be playing bare-knuckled politics. Few, if any, threats flowed from the White House. Indeed, some undecided lawmakers privately expressed astonishment that Mr. Clinton had stopped short of bluntly demanding their votes.
Mr. Clinton's mood today was upbeat, in part because the rest of the day's events had helped him considerably. The Senate, in a spate of pre-recess activity, approved Mr. Clinton's nominations of Ruth Bader Ginsburg to the Supreme Court and Sheldon Hackney to head the National Endowment for the Humanities as well as passing his national service program. In addition, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved his nomination of Judge Louis B. Freeh to head the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
But the tense battle over the budget remained the central issue, and the President and his chief advisers began warning darkly of a cloudy economic future if the measure should fail.
 
Interest Rate Warning
 Mr. Rubin predicted that interest rates, which have dropped steadily in recent months, would rise if the deficit-reduction provisions of the bill were not enacted.
"I think you'd have a tremendous chill on the economy because I think consumers and business would simply feel that Government can't deal with its problems," he said.
Using blunt language and multicolored charts of the sort Ross Perot made popular in his televised talks in the campaign, Mr. Clinton said he was not out to punish the successful. But he asserted that more than 80 percent of the new taxes would be paid by families with incomes over $200,000. And twice he said that working families with incomes under $180,000 a year would not pay higher income taxes.
Older Americans, too, would not be expected to sacrifice unfairly, the President went on, promising that he would "not balance the budget on the backs of older Americans" while protecting the wealthy.
Displaying another chart, Mr. Clinton asserted that of every $10 in spending cuts and tax increases that will be raised by the plan, only $1 would come from higher taxes on the average American. He said $5 would come from spending cuts and $4 from taxes on those with incomes of more than $200,000.
Mr. Clinton also defended his plan as one that would generate jobs, particularly by providing tax incentives to small businesses that invest in new enterprises and research and development.
"This plan is fair, it's balanced and it will work," he said.
White House officials as well as House and Senate leaders have been confidently predicting that they have assembled the votes they need to pass the economic package now that various interest groups have been satisfied.
"Sure there have been some compromises," said one senior adviser, George Stephanopoulos, "But he has gotten the bulk of what he set out to do."
Some members of Congress, however, and even some in the Administration have complained of a President who does not deal sharply enough with his advisers and who, even at this late date, is acting too hesitantly.
 
Signs of Frustration
 "All this high-powered talent," one discouraged Administration official said after emerging from a strategy meeting. "I bet they argue for hours about how many angels can dance on the head of a pin."
White House officials insisted that they were taking no votes for granted, with Mr. Clinton courting individual members. At the same time, Mr. Clinton's political and polling advisers roamed the West Wing offices today, planning the evening's speech and plotting future action, including a meeting on Wednesday with House Democrats.
 
Economic Crisis
 "In the spring, we did not do as good a job as we might have in explaining and communicating what the plan is all about," said Mark Gearan, the White House communications director. "It is our belief that most Americans realize how deep and compelling an economic crisis this country is in, and they're willing to pay their fair share."
White House officials are hoping that by casting the impending vote in broad terms they will win the public opinion wars as well as the narrow victory the President needs. As the vote draws nearer, each day's statements become more apocalyptic.
"We're either going to do something to regain control of our own destiny, or we're going to let the economy continue to spin out of control, and we'll be helpless to influence it," Mr. Clinton told the Nevada reporters today. "So it's just a question of whether we're going to do this for the long run or not."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton addressing the nation from the Oval Office last night. (CNN) (pg. A1); Members of the Clinton Administration, along with other high-level Democrats, blitzed the media to help the President sell his budget package. Robert E. Rubin, the head of the President's National Economic Council, made an appearance on a CNBC program. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FORECASTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (75%); HEALTH CARE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); IFILL, GWEN; DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



102 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia Journal;
A Chain-Store Invasion Of the Proudly Quaint

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 3

 BODY:
In this city of distinctive neighborhoods, none clings more proudly to its image than Chestnut Hill. Situated at the city's northwest corner, it has won designation as a national historic district, maintaining the rustic ambiance of generations past, when only the rumble of trolley cars pierced the quiet of a summer afternoon and most folks knew one another by first names.
At Chestnut Hill's commercial center, blocks of small, upscale, family-owned businesses with names like Little Nook Gift Shop and the Happy Butterfly line cobblestoned Germantown Avenue, some in stone buildings more than 200 years old. If any business owner needs help in deciding what color to paint a store, the Chestnut Hill Community Association will happily provide 29 pages of guidelines on how to "create visual harmony with the village character and ambiance of Germantown Avenue." 
 But troubled times have come to the avenue, and more than the trolleys, which still run on weekends, are making noise. Scores of residents have expressed sharp opposition to the plans of Kay-Bee Toys, a national chain, to open a store in the fall.
It has rented a storefront that had been occupied for nearly 50 years by a dress shop, which went out of business two years ago. In a campaign being played out largely in the pages of The Chestnut Hill Local, a weekly published by the community association, Kay-Bee's opponents have argued that chain stores belong in malls, not among the specialty shops that give the area its cachet.
More than a debate over what kind of signs Kay-Bee might place at the front of the store or whether it might sell chemistry sets or plastic rifles, the arguments reflect a community's effort to protect its identity against the backdrop of a sluggish national economy, the crime rates of adjacent neighborhoods and fears of an influx of people outside of Chestnut Hill's normal clientele.
"I've lived around Chestnut Hill all my life," said Gerry Romig, 55. "It's changing, and I'm not so sure it's for the better."
Mr. Romig and his wife, Judy, own the Wooden Train, a small store across the street from the Kay-Bee site that sells ageless toys like wooden trains and building blocks. He expressed ambivalence about Kay-Bee's opening a fourth store in Philadelphia among its 1,200 nationally, saying, "I could lose some business, but I also suspect Kay-Bee might bring some customers to us."
But Mr. Romig wondered about the long-term effects of national chains like Banana Republic, the Gap and the Limited, all of which have opened stores in Chestnut Hill over the last five years. Referring to a trendy men's store across the street that is owned by the Limited, he said: "There is probably nothing I would buy there. So who are the people buying those kinds of clothes? People normally not associated with Chestnut Hill. Those stores attract a different class of people."
Clee Coleman, who manages the Trolley Stop florist shop on Germantown Avenue, one of only a handful of businesses among Chestnut Hill's 120 stores owned or operated by blacks, was blunt in assessing the motives of chain-store opponents. "They don't want more blacks in the neighborhood," he said, a judgment that the community's civic leaders deny.
At opposite poles in the debate are Carol Dilks, a writer who has lived in Chestnut Hill for seven years, and Shirley Perch, a member of the partnership that owns the storefront.
Mrs. Dilks, who did not return several messages left on her answering machine, began a campaign to oppose Kay-Bee in May, shortly after the partnership agreed to rent the 5,000-square-foot property to the chain, based in Pittsfield, Mass.
In the July 1 issue of The Local, Mrs. Dilks asked people to think about what they wanted the area to be in 10 years. "The gap in quality between this store and the others on Germantown Avenue is big," she wrote. "It's glaring."
Mrs. Perch, who also lives in Chestnut Hill and whose family has owned the property since 1918, said she understood the opposition, in that a "fine store" like the dress shop that once occupied the storefront "represents a buffer against the breakdown of property values."
By last week, passions had subsided a bit. Mrs. Dilks and several other residents had met with Kay-Bee officials and won promises that the store would accommodate many of their concerns. But an editorial in The Local July 29 cheered the efforts of Mrs. Dilks and placed the ultimate responsibility for the future of Chestnut Hill on property owners. "In the future," The Local wrote, "they may look back and lament they fouled their nests, and the community as well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shirley Perch, a member of a partnership that has rented space to a chain store in Philadelphia's Chestnut Hill district. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: KAY-BEE TOY AND HOBBY SHOP BANANA REPUBLIC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAY-BEE TOY AND HOBBY SHOP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA); CHESTNUT HILL (PHILADELPHIA NEIGHBORHOOD) UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (92%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (70%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



103 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: A Supporter Of Holtzman Tied to a Loan

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
A political supporter of Elizabeth Holtzman played an important role in a bank's decision to grant a $450,000 campaign loan last fall to Ms. Holtzman's Senate campaign, bank executives, campaign officials and others with firsthand knowledge of a city investigation into the loan say.
The supporter, James P. Murphy, a vice president at the Fleet Financial Group, is the chairman of the board of trustees of the City University of New York. He helped raise money for the Holtzman campaign during the summer of 1992 and was the first bank official the cash-starved campaign approached last August when it sought the loan, according to bank officials and aides to Ms. Holtzman, the City Comptroller since 1990. 
 The loan, made by Fleet Bank, a subsidiary of the financial group, has become the subject of a city investigation because seven months after it was granted, Fleet Securities, a sister company of the bank, was awarded a lucrative designation as an underwriter of city bonds on the strong recommendation of Ms. Holtzman's office.
 
Dinkins Took Action
 Mayor David N. Dinkins, who jointly chooses underwriters with the Comptroller, decided to cancel the bank's city underwriting status after news reports disclosed the existence of the loan.
Thomas L. Lavelle, a spokesman for the bank, said Mr. Murphy, who coordinates the bank's lobbying and municipal finance operations, referred the request from Holtzman campaign officials to a loan processing officer at the Long Island branch of the banking company.
He said Mr. Murphy "did not do the credit analysis, the underwriting or the approval of the loan."
But according to two people with knowledge of the city investigation into the loan, the Long Island bank executive, who has not been identified, initially was hesitant to approve the loan because it was to a political campaign. The executive consulted top executives at Fleet's headquarters in Rhode Island and in New York, including Mr. Murphy, and was told that nothing in the bank's guidelines prohibited political loans, those sources said.
Mr. Lavelle would not comment on whether Mr. Murphy was instrumental in that decision. He said the loan -- which carried a 7 percent interest rate and was secured by Ms. Holtzman's personal guarantee and future campaign receipts -- was processed by bank officers in New York and met the bank's lending criteria and the legal requirements under Federal election laws.
Campaign disclosure documents filed with the Federal Election Commission over the weekend show that the Holtzman campaign for the United States Senate still owes more than $255,000 of the debt and has not made any payments since February. The campaign also failed, Federal officials said, to file the required documents detailing arrangements that have been made with the bank for paying back the debt.
Aides to Ms. Holtzman said the campaign had paid back about $14,500 more in July.
Ms. Holtzman did not return telephone calls yesterday seeking comment. Her spokeswoman, Maerwydd McFarland, confirmed that Mr. Murphy was a fund-raiser for the campaign in 1992, but she said his role was peripheral. She said Mr. Murphy was one of about 300 committee members and had helped organize "one dismal fund-raiser."
She also said Ms. Holtzman did not know Mr. Murphy personally.
"He was not in any way an active fund-raiser," she said. "He was not in any way involved with the campaign or the decision making."
Mr. Murphy also did not respond to numerous telephone messages left at his office over the last week, including yesterday. A woman who identified herself as his secretary said Mr. Murphy was in Washington on a lobbying trip.
 
Co-Sponsor of Fund-Raiser
 Mr. Lavelle confirmed that Mr. Murphy was the co-sponsor of a fund-raiser for Ms. Holtzman in May 1992 and raised between $3,000 and $3,500. He said Mr. Murphy "does not recall being approached or providing consent" to be a member of the campaign's finance committee.
Mr. Murphy was hired by Fleet in 1989 after serving for 13 years as the executive vice president of the New York State Bankers Association, a banking lobby organization. His responsibilities at Fleet include lobbying city, state and Federal governments, husbanding special low-interest loan programs for housing that are mandated by Federal law and overseeing the bank's municipal finance business, including its bond underwriting operations.
In that role, Mr. Murphy is in charge of several lending programs and bond underwriting operations that have dealings with Ms. Holtzman's office. Apart from seeking to sell city bonds, Fleet is also currently a lender in at least two low-interest housing programs that involve city pension funds.
Ms. Holtzman, who as the City Comptroller is the manager of the city's pension funds, has considerable say over which banks are chosen to participate in the housing programs, but Fleet was chosen for the programs before she took office, city officials said.
Specifically, Fleet is a lender in the Project H.O.M.E. and the Red-Lined Neighborhood Aid programs, which use city pension funds to buy a portion of federally guaranteed mortgages issued by banks.
A Holtzman campaign official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Murphy had given $1,000 to Ms. Holtzman's 1989 campaign for comptroller and became a member of the campaign finance committee.
 
'Very Highly Regarded'
 A bank official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Murphy was hired because "he is very highly regarded in political circles." His main task, the official said, is to build good relations with local governments and to coordinate the bank's affordable-housing programs.
Ms. McFarland, the Comptroller's spokeswoman, said the campaign considered Mr. Murphy the logical person to approach about the loan because he was the bank's "government relations officer."
"That's the logical route for the request," she said. "His role was just as a liaison."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A campaign loan to Elizabeth Holtzman last fall is under a city investigation. She spoke yesterday outside City Hall. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); FLEET BANK OF NEW YORK; FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); FLEET BANK OF NEW YORK; FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; COMPTROLLERS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS MAYORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); ELECTION LAW (73%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); BONDS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; MURPHY, JAMES P; HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



104 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: Personal Finances;
For Well-Off, Tax Proposal Hits Home

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
To Marc Evans, the grass looks invitingly greener on the other side of the top tax bracket.
While Congress moves this week toward raising his taxes, Mr. Evans is planning to shut down his software consulting business, sell his house north of Boston, move back to his solid working-class roots in rural New England and maybe even repair Saabs for a living. 
 "Essentially, I am dropping out of society," Mr. Evans said when asked how the deficit-reduction legislation on which Congressional negotiators agreed Monday would affect him. "It's not worth it. The costs, mentally and to the family, of trying to maintain a high middle income is too much to pay at this point, given what the Government takes."
Mr. Evans and his family can scarcely be considered typical taxpayers, either in their financial condition -- their income is in the hundreds of thousands of dollars, and their net worth is far higher -- or in their reaction to the coming tax increases.
But they are not entirely atypical of those who would be touched most by the legislation. Of the $170 billion in new income taxes to be collected from 1993 through 1997, an estimated 80 percent would be paid by households with income exceeding $200,000 a year, according to Congressional tax aides.
The tax rate on the last dollar earned -- the so-called marginal tax rate -- would go from 31 percent to 36 percent for couples earning $140,000, and to 39.6 percent for those earning $250,000.
 
40 Percent Tax Rate
 When other tax provisions that would also affect the wealthy are added in -- an increase in the amount of income subject to Medicare taxes, for instance, and a phase-out in the eligibility for deductions and personal exemptions -- some taxpayers would be paying at a marginal rate in excess of 40 percent: $400 for each additional $1,000 they earn.
Further, the new rates, the phase-outs and most other tax provisions of the bill would be retroactive to Jan. 1.
Relatively little impact would be felt outside the highest tax brackets. The net income of the working poor would actually grow, through new subsidies, and the vast middle class would pay only increased taxes on gasoline and, in some cases, on Social Security benefits.
So the impact will be heaviest on people like Mr. Evans, whose reaction, although extraordinary, does help illustrate what experts have long said about large tax increases on the rich: that their financial behavior is likely to change when their taxes do.
 
One Family's Reaction
 Mr. Evans, who is just 30 years old, hacked at computers as a teen-ager and, without having gone to college, flourished as the sole proprietor of Synergytics, which provides computer services on contract. He said he would be giving up an annual income of $300,000 a year and aiming to earn perhaps a tenth of that. He can do so because he and his wife have no debts and have built a substantial nest egg. They have one child, 2 years old, and are expecting a second.
Mr. Evans's accountant, Michael Fetzner, said he was advising a less radical course: minimizing taxable income through the use of profit-sharing and retirement savings plans, accounting techniques and a change in investments. This is the kind of advice many upper-income taxpayers will hear if the bill becomes law.
"That's why he has an accountant," Mr. Fetzner said. "He's not really going to be hurt that badly."
But Mr. Evans insisted that he was absolutely set on his course.
Interviews with several other upper-income taxpayers and their accountants suggested that many would be changing their financial behavior, although perhaps not so strikingly as the Evanses. How they do so could greatly affect how much money the tax increases ultimately provide the Government, an issue disputed by economists of different ideologies.
Whether both spouses should work, whether savings should be put in tax-free bonds, whether to shelter investments in retirement accounts or instead pursue capital gains -- these and a myriad of other decisions are driven in part by taxes.
 
Benefits of House and Child
 Many accountants said they were urging people with teen-age children to shift income-producing investments to them, so that the income would be taxed at lower rates. This made sense for most wealthy people even under the old system, said Thomas Ochsenschlager, a tax partner at Grant Thornton. There also remains one of the most widely used tax breaks, deductions for mortgage interest payments.
But there are those who say that they can find few tax strategies that make sense, and that their only recourse is to work a little harder to maintain their financial status quo.
A doctor in Massachusetts, who discussed his situation on condition of anonymity, said tax changes were leaving him few loopholes. He said that he paid $76,000 in tuition for four children and that in his marginal tax bracket he would have to earn $150,000 in pretax income just to cover the tuition bills.
Like others interviewed, he said he believed that it was necessary to raise taxes, but he added, "I've never made so much money and had less."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Asked how he would handle the tax increases proposed in Congress, Marc Evans, a computer services entrepreneur in Pelham, N.H., said: "Essentially, I am dropping out of society. It's not worth it. The costs, mentally and to the family, of trying to maintain a high middle income is too much to pay at this point, given what the Government takes." (Paula Scully for The New York Times)
 
Tables: "Taxing Upper Incomes: Impact on 4 Returns"
 The tax bill before Congress would raise taxes for Americans with the highest incomes. About 90 percent of the total raised in new taxes will come from families with annual incomes of at least $100,000. Shown here are calculations for four hypothetical households for the tax increase in 1993. The figures also show the Medicare tax increase that would take effect in 1994. The figures were provided by steve Woolf of Coopers & Lybrand's national tax office in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); MEDICARE (75%); FUEL TAX (73%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (60%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



105 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: Business Expenses;
Bill's Effect on Business and Industry Would Vary

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Corporations would feel the effects of the big budget-reconciliation bill in two ways: as it directly affects the taxes they pay, and as it affects the performance of the broader economy in the years ahead.
For example, large retailers would lose by paying a new top tax rate of 35 percent on corporate income, an increase of two percentage points over the current top rate. But they would also gain by being able to take advantage of a newly reinstated tax credit for hiring chronically unemployed workers. 
 And they would be watching to see how the big increases in taxes on the wealthiest consumers affected demand for products, especially during the Christmas season.
"The effect on consumption, and, from the retailer's point of view, sales, is probably of more concern than the direct impact of the tax bill on retailers," said Edward J. Abahoonie, a tax partner and retailing specialist at Coopers & Lybrand.
Retailers, like other big companies, would also face substantial amounts of paperwork as they refigured this year's taxes, and even last year's, since many provisions of the new bill are retroactive.
 
Luxury-Tax Refunds
 For example, customers who paid luxury taxes on furs and jewels in the first part of this year would now be allowed to claim refunds of those taxes, which the retailers collected. And the newly reinstated jobs tax credit could be retroactively claimed by corporations all the way back to July 1, 1992, when it expired.
For some corporations, relatively arcane provisions of the legislation might have considerable repercussions.
For example, provisions allowing companies with overseas subsidiaries to defer taxes on certain foreign earnings would be tightened, and a tax credit for companies with factories in Puerto Rico would be limited. Both could have important effects on companies with plants abroad and could lead to corporate reorganizations, according to David Benson, Coopers & Lybrand's international tax expert.The bill would have other effects on business. Companies would be required to use a 15-year schedule in depreciating intangible assets like customer lists, the first time a single schedule has been applied to such assets. There would be somewhat shorter write-off periods for a few categories of intangible assets, like purchased rights to service a mortgage.
Beginning next year, deductions would be denied for club dues and lobbying expenses and, in many cases, for the part of an executive's salary that exceeds $1 million a year.
And the bill would allow people actively engaged in the real estate business to deduct passive losses, a device that was one of the main shelters eliminated by the tax changes of 1986. To help pay for this, however, the depreciation schedule for commercial property would be extended to 39 years, from the 31 1/2 years provided under current law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (70%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (70%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND (70%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CORPORATIONS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); RETAILERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); DEPRECIATION (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); CHRISTMAS (54%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



106 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Turmoil Aids U.S. Banks

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
As Europe's governments continue to wrestle over the fate of the ever-more-elusive dream of currency union, their actions have an unintended beneficiary: American banks. In the second quarter, the five largest New York banks and the BankAmerica Corporation of San Francisco reported combined revenues of $2.2 billion from trading, an all-time record. And if the volatile markets continue, the banks are positioned to best that record this quarter.
With profits shrinking from traditional corporate lending, the big banks saw trading as a way to cash in on the rapid growth of international investments by corporations, pension funds and mutual funds. So over the last few years, banks have built vast trading desks around the world, many with hundreds of traders sitting at banks of computer screens, rapidly barking prices for currencies and securities into their telephones.
 
 
Need to Change Positions
 Volatile markets, like those in Europe last week, force these investors to change their positions quickly to protect themselves against currency devaluations and interest rate shifts -- resulting in a flurry of profitable trading for the banks. 
 Trading is the most profitable business banks have. Indeed, the six top American banks split profits of more than $900 million for three months of trading activity, which represented more than 40 percent of their total profits, according to industry analysts. And the results were nearly as good for most of last year.
"It is a very rich market because there are lots of fundamental shifts in the market taking place," said Kelly Doherty, head of the global trading group at Bankers Trust, which now makes 80 percent of its profit from trading.
Banks have profited, Mr. Doherty said, not only because of the currency crisis, but also because interest rates are declining in Europe and Japan and because interest rates are gyrating on political uncertainty in the United States.
This money could not have come at a better time for banks. It is replenishing their capital, which had been depleted by waves of bad real estate loans. Moreover, the banks see their success in trading as an important stepping stone in their efforts to compete with Wall Street, where trading is closely tied to the more lucrative underwriting of securities.
Yet many investors worry that like other booms the trading bubble will eventually burst when the markets calm down. Then the banks will have to keep paying for their huge trading rooms with the ever declining profits from their traditional businesses. In the last three years, for example, J. P. Morgan & Company has doubled the size of its trading department to 2,000 people, who now generate about half the bank's profits, according to industry analysts.
This very success raises the question of whether the fate of the banking system is increasingly dependent on the payoff from gambling in a vast global casino. Many European central bankers and politicians have severely criticized the banks and other market participants as profiteering "speculators."
The banks, however, play not so much the gambler, but the casino itself. Trading, of course, entails risk, and many of the trades made by an active bank will lose money, sometimes a large amount.
 
Odds in the Banks' Favor
 But the odds are decidedly stacked in favor of the banks because of their ability to look at the hands of other players. Most of a bank's trades -- if not always most of the trading profits -- come from transactions with its customers rather than from speculation on the markets. These customers can range from companies that have to bring home their foreign profits to mutual funds that make international investments. But it is information from these trades that allows the bank to profit from its own positions.
In theory, the bank profits from the "spread," the difference between the price a bank's trader pays for a currency or a security and what the trader sells it at. With some smaller customers or those in remote areas that cannot or do not shop around for price quotes, the spread can be quite high. For example, Citicorp had trading revenues of $572 million for the second quarter, a record for any American bank, in large part because its enormous network of 70 trading rooms, which do business in 117 currencies, reaches more of these customers than any one else.
 
Tiny Bets
 But for larger customers in most markets, the spread has become very small. And the bulk of the trading profits of a bank comes from making tiny bets while managing its position. Because the traders can talk to customers and see the patterns in their decisions, they can decide whether to get out of a position right away or to hold it for a short time.
"We keep positions open for several minutes to several hours," said Michael G. J. Davis, the deputy head of Chase Manhattan Corporation's risk management department. "Being a market maker gives you a fast read on the way the market is going."
Beyond the short-term positions they take while dealing with customers, banks also have a separate -- and often more profitable -- business in what they call "proprietary trading," which involves somewhat longer-term positions taken for the bank's own account. Sometimes these are naked bets that an interest rate or currency will move in a particular direction. Often they are betting that the relationship between two rates will change in a particular way.
In these trades, the banks are competing with investors ranging from large international bond mutual funds and short-term speculative hedge funds. But proprietary traders who sit at desks where they can overhear colleagues doing business with customers have an edge.
 
Comfort in Reading the Market
 "Trading has a lot to do with comfort," Mr. Doherty said. "We have intimate knowledge of small ebbs and flows in the market. When you feel like you know what's going on, it gives you confidence."
 Most banks are shy about talking about their proprietary trading in part because investors do not see it as a stable and reliable source of earnings and thus penalize the stock of companies that engage in it.
For that reason, the Chemical Banking Corporation will not allow proprietary trading to grow beyond 20 percent of its trading profits, even though it has stepped up its proprietary trading since its merger last year with the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, said Donald H. Layton, who runs the trading business.
J. P. Morgan, however, is expanding. "Morgan has always been very, very strong in proprietary trading," said Peter L. Woicke, the co-head of Morgan's trading group. "Market making for customers has not become more important than proprietary trading, but the proportion has increased over the last two or three years."
Another reason that banks are keen on doing business with customers is to sell them new derivative products, which are far more profitable to trade than simple currencies and securities. Derivatives are customized contracts that let corporations and investors modify the risks of their positions. For example, Chase Manhattan recently sold a large option to a European contractor involved in building the new Hong Kong airport that wanted protection against a potential drop in the Hong Kong dollar.
"When markets get more volatile, customers start to demand insurance policies against some forms of their risk," Chase's Mr. Davis said. "If you offer a product that is more finely tuned to what they need, they will pay more for it."
While derivatives are designed to appear simple to the customer, the bank must hedge its risk in offering the contracts through a computer-generated series of offsetting trades. A number of regulators and central bankers have worried that this hedging process can get so complicated that a bank may have substantial losses.
Indeed, while derivatives have yet to prove any more risky than other instruments, some banks have made costly mistakes in trading. For example, J. P. Morgan lost more than $50 million last year trading mortgage-backed securities. But that loss is minor in comparison with Morgan's $959 million in trading revenue last year and total profit of $1.4 billion.
 
Higher Return and Lower Risk
 Trading, however, offers banks a far higher return with lower risk than most traditional bank lending. And to some observers, the risks from trading are even decreasing.
"The banks are not making as many big mistakes as they did several years ago because more and more of them are using sophisticated quantitative methods to control the risk they take," said William Ferrell, the head of Ferrell Capital Management, which runs a fund that invests in proprietary trading.
The biggest question is whether the current lucrative trading environment will continue. If it does not, the banks will have fallen into the same trap that often snares Wall Street brokers who expand during bull markets only to be dragged down by bloated costs during the inevitable bear markets.
The banks' biggest fear would be a long period of calm and stability in the markets, which would lull companies and investors into slowing their trading activities. "The worst thing for us is a marketplace where nothing happens," Mr. Davis said.
But the bankers believe that investors will continue to move money across borders and that politicians will continue to provide reasons to shift those investments around.
"If you tell me that economic policy, fiscal policy and monetary policy will be perfectly coordinated on a global basis, I'll tell you we have to make a business shift," said Marcus Meier, the co-head of Morgan's trading group. "I continue not to see that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael G. J. Davis, center, a Chase Manhattan executive, overseeing trading on the bank's foreign exchange desk in Manhattan. "The worst thing for us is a marketplace where nothing happens," he said. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Trading Triumph" shows quarterly revenues from foreign exchange and securities trading. (Source: Goldman Sachs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CITICORP; MORGAN, J P, & CO; BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC); CHEMICAL BANK (NYC); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; BANKAMERICA CORP ; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITICORP; MORGAN, J P, & CO; BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC); CHEMICAL BANK (NYC); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; BANKAMERICA CORP ; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE ; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM ; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; PENSION FUNDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



107 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
Excerpts From Republican Response to President's Address

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Republican response to President Clinton's address, delivered by the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, as recorded by the Federal News Service:
The President just told you about his economic plan, and a number of other plans. And he's asked for your support. Many of us in Congress, including some Democrats, oppose the plan. And let me get right to the point and tell you why. We oppose this plan because it takes America in the wrong direction, because we believe by working together we can do much better, much, much better for you and all other Americans. 
 Now, we hear lots of so-called experts full of facts and a lot of fancy charts, and we've seen some this evening. You'll see a lot in the next 48 hours before the voting starts. And as you wade through all of the numbers and promises, keep in mind that passage of this bill will effect your job, your business, your family and your retirement.
So, ask yourself four questions. And the answers to these questions are not my opinions, they are the facts.
The first question is, does President Clinton's plan increase taxes? And the answer is an emphatic yes. Yes to the tune of $260 billion in increased taxes and fees. One of my Democratic colleagues stated that this plan is not just the largest tax increase in American history, but the largest tax increase in world history.
But the President says the tax increases will only punish upper-income Americans, as if that was something to celebrate. Well, he's wrong. Under his plan, millions of you, who might think you were a member of the middle class, will be paying more in taxes. Two- career families, more that 800,000 small businesses, over five million senior citizens and millions of others will soon be sending more hard-earned dollars to Washington.
And what really bothers me is that President Clinton and the Democrats in Congress are so anxious to raise your taxes, they've made the income tax increase effective Jan. 1, 1993. That's right. You heard it right, Jan. 1, 1993, 20 days before President Clinton even got to the White House.
President Clinton says his plan is historic, and he's right. Never before in American history has the Government increased tax rates retroactively. And by doing so, President Clinton is telling millions of individuals and small-business men and women who have been paying their income taxes at the current rate that what you've sent in the past seven months is not enough; you must pay more, a lot, lot more. In some cases, at least a 67 percent increase in income taxes for the balance of the year, and that's just five months.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Now, some taxpayers have told me that they'd be willing to pay a little more in taxes to reduce the deficit, if Government would just cut spending first. So, the second question is, does the President's plan reduce government spending? And the answer is, no, not really. The President's plan does not eliminate a single Federal program. It does not tell Government bureaucrats to spend less money. It says, "Government programs will be increased, but the increase will not be quite as big as expected.
 
Spending Cuts Urged

Now, keep in mind, again, that the tax increase in the President's plan started seven months ago -- Jan. 1, 1993. But the so-called spending cuts are only promised for some time in the future. In fact, 80 percent of those promised spending cuts won't occur, if at all, until after the next Presidential election in 1996.
Now, Republicans and some Democrats in Congress heard the message you sent us last November. You wanted us to cut spending first -- and we had a plan to do just that. It was a good plan. We tried to eliminate the President's requested tax increases. We tried to make real cuts in Government spending. But, unfortunately, the President and the liberal Democrats in Congress defeated all of these proposals.
The third question you should ask is, does the President's plan help put Americans back to work? And the answer is, no -- N.O. -- No.
Back in January, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office told us that if Congress did not do anything, if we did not pass any economic package, our economy would create 9.4 million new jobs over the next four years. President Clinton now says that his plan will create perhaps 8 million jobs -- new jobs over the next four years. In effect, by passing the President's plan, we could lose 1.4 million jobs.
So, if you're a restaurant worker in Nevada or a small-business man or woman in Wisconsin, an aerospace worker in California, a defense worker in Georgia, a family farmer in Nebraska, an insurance salesman in Connecticut, an engineer in Alabama, or even a senior citizen in Arizona -- look out. The Clinton plan is bad news for you and all other Americans. It's bad for your job and bad for your families.
Still, despite all of this, there may be a few -- just a few -- out there who are saying, "So what if my taxes are increased? So what if more jobs would be created if we did nothing? If this plan reduces the deficit, then I will support it." Well, I share your concern, and have said for many years and have backed it up with tough votes, that reducing the national deficit must be our No. 1 priority.
So, the fourth question is, does the President's plan reduce the deficit? Unfortunately, for America's future and the future of our children and grandchildren, the answer is no. Yes, President Clinton's massive tax increases will drop the deficit from $285 billion this year to an estimated $202 billion in 1997. But just three years after that -- just three years after that, most analysts project that the deficit will skyrocket to well over $350 billion.
And, by the way, don't be fooled by what the President just said about his so-called deficit reduction trust fund. Members of the President's own economic team dismissed this as a gimmick, and the director of the Congressional Budget Office has testified that this trust fund will not reduce the deficit by one dime. So, don't be fooled by this gimmick.

 	 	 		. . .	 	So, my fellow Americans, contrary to what some may be saying, the world will not end if this bill is defeated. In fact, defeating this bill will mark not an end, but a new beginning -- an opportunity to begin again and to agree upon a new plan, a better plan, and a plan that truly moves America in the right direction.
I want to join the President in wishing our best and saying we're going to cooperate in a non-partisan way with all of those who've been affected by the flood in the 10 Midwestern states. And I would say to all of you who are listening: pay attention to this plan. It will affect your life and it will affect your future.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Dole preparing his response to President Clinton's address. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); HISTORY (86%); FAMILY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



108 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: THE MIDWEST FLOODING;
Floods, and Fear of Them, Disrupt Tourist Industry

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. JOSEPH, Mo., July 31

 BODY:
Compared with other tourist destinations along the rivers of the upper Midwest, St. Joseph is one of the lucky ones. Although its industrial south side was inundated and a flooded water-treatment plant left 85,000 residents without drinking water for five days, the historic sites that draw up to 250,000 visitors a year to this city were untouched.
Burlington, Iowa, suffered extensive flood damage to its tourist attractions, including historic buildings and a municipal auditorium. And vast stretches of Katy Trail State Park in Missouri, a 200-mile hiking and bicycle trail between St. Charles and Sedalia, were flooded by the rampaging Missouri River, which the trail parallels for most of its length. 
 While few tourist sites in the region have been washed away, the overall devastation has disrupted tourism by cutting off transportation and utilities and generally frightening people away. And tourism officials fear that the images of disaster will linger long after the waters subside, postponing the revival.
 
Staying Away in Droves
 "I'm surprised anyone at all came," said Katherine Wilder, working behind the reception desk at the Jesse James Home in this Missouri River city. As she spoke, a lone visitor examined the one-story white frame cottage where the outlaw was killed by one of his gang members in 1882.
It is equally bad around the corner at the Patee House Museum, once the headquarters of the Pony Express, which ran between St. Joseph and Sacramento, Calif.
"We should be getting 175 to 200 people a day, but we're getting 17, 14," said Gary Chilcote, the director of the nonprofit museum. "If we don't make it this time of year, we won't be able to meet our expenses."
At the nearby ice cream parlor, housed in the replica of a Japanese tea house, not one customer had appeared all day.
All up and down the swollen rivers of the Midwest, similar stories are being told.
In Des Moines, 61 of the city's 65 hotels were closed for several days because they lacked electricity and clean water for guests. In St. Louis, sightseeing buses stood empty, waiting for tourists who never showed up. And in riverfront towns all along the Mississippi and the Missouri, excursion boats were beached when those rivers were closed to traffic.
 
Extent of the Damage
 There are no estimates of the overall damage to tourism. In Illinois, where tourism is a $15 billion industry employing about 250,000 people, officials hesitate even to hazard a guess about the extent of the damage.
"About 24 of our 102 counties are affected," said Donna Shaw, the director of the Illinois Bureau of Tourism. "And in the flooded western part of the state, where tourism is their economic lifeline, it's down at least 70 percent."
But the officials say there is simply no way to assess not only the financial impact but also the social impact when heavy rains saturated grounds and forced Nauvoo, Ill., to cancel the City of Joseph Pageant this week, a Mormon commemoration that usually attracts 100,000 spectators every August. Or how civic pride may suffer from the cancellation of this year's charity baseball game at the field near Dyersville, Iowa, that has become a tourist mecca since it became the scene of the 1989 movie "Field of Dreams."
"People still show up here," said Jacque Rahe, director of the Dyersville Chamber of Commerce. "But a lot of group tours have canceled out even though the worst we had was a stream across home plate for two days that swept a couple of Port-a-Potties away."
 
Woeful Grasp of Geography
 Inevitably, perhaps, residents throughout the flood areas accuse their countrymen of having a woeful grasp of geography.
That may be one reason traffic is down even in the Ozark Mountains, where the water problem is not a surfeit of rain but a lack of it.
"Traffic at our R.V. park has slowed to a trickle," said Mae Nobert, manager of the Dorwood Valley recreational vehicle park in Mansfield, a city of 1,500 people in south-central Missouri. "Once people heard about floods in Missouri, we started getting cancellations from all over."
Even the Ozark town of Branson, Mo., a center of country-western music and perhaps the nation's fastest growing tourist destination in recent years, has felt the effects of the flood.
"We've lost a lot of bus tours," said John Bowers, executive director of the Branson Chamber of Commerce, "because many of them go on to Hannibal or St. Louis, and the perception is that both cities are under water."
Misconceptions are not confined to Americans. "We get international calls asking if the bridges in Chicago are under water," said Ms. Shaw, the Illinois tourism director, "and we have to explain, 'No, Chicago is 200 kilometers from the floods.' "
 
Few Strangers in Hannibal
 Hannibal, Mo., the Mississippi River port and boyhood home of Mark Twain, is another city long on tourist attractions but short on visitors. "We had a party and nobody came," lamented Dick McHargue, a board member of Hannibal's Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Tourism is off 80 percent in Hannibal, Mr. McHargue said. "I can document 1,200 canceled reservations" at the Molly Brown Dinner Theater since mid-July, he added. "Restaurants, motels -- everything's hurting."
While most Interstates and major highways in the nation's heartland remain open, many bridges are out or have been closed.
The Mississippi rose so high that the Mississippi Queen, one of the few remaining overnight paddlewheel steamboats in the United States, could not pass under the bridges at St. Louis. So, even before the river was closed to traffic, three of the steamboat's cruises were rerouted to the Ohio, Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers. Her sister ship, the Delta Queen, also changed schedules for each of the four cruises scheduled this month.
But not all tourist spots in the Midwest have suffered from the floods. Some hotels, for example, lost tourists but were filled with relief workers and camera crews.
"We never missed a beat," said Gary Inks, vice president of sales and marketing for Jumer's Casino in Rock Island, Ill. "Even though we received a tremendous number of cancellations at first, the President riverboat in Davenport had to shut down for two weeks, because of flood waters, so we got a lot of their regular customers on our boat."
 
Wet Sense of Humor
 All the states in the region, as well as many cities and counties, have established toll-free "flood hot lines" with updated information about road conditions and flooding.
And in an attempt to salvage something, anything, from the remaining days of summer, states and cities that only recently attracted legions of tourists are planning advertising campaigns that they hope will at least bring individual travelers.
Some of the proposed ads indicate that whatever else Midwesterners may have lost in the floods, a sense of humor was not one of them.
Des Moines, for example, which went 12 days without drinking water but had plenty from the skies and rivers, has been toying with the slogan, "Come on in, the water's fine." And Hannibal, according to Mr. McHargue of the Visitors Bureau, is considering using the slogan, "High, Dry and Open."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RIVER CITY BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); ST JOSEPH (MO) UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FLOODS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES TOURISM (92%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); RIVERS (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); HIKING (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); WATER QUALITY (74%); STATE PARKS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ICE CREAM (62%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



109 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Loses Its Allure as a Patron in Central Asian Nations

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey

 BODY:
When the cold war ended and the remote Soviet fiefs of Central Asia became independent states, an idea emerged here and in Washington that Turkey should expand its role from bulwark of the Western alliance to patron of emerging nations stretching east to the Chinese border.
The idea had instant allure for many Turks, reviving forgotten dreams of pan-Turkic influence among distant Muslim kin awaiting a march toward Western prosperity. For the United States, facing the prospect of ever more complex nationalist strife abroad as Soviet power crumbled, Turkey seemed a reliable proxy to fill the Central Asian vacuum. 
 These days, that dream appears to be fading.
Facing its own economic troubles recently, this nation of 60 million has been unable to provide the aid to cement its influence over the region, Western diplomats say. Its diplomacy has been hesitant, reflecting a deep fear of being drawn into Central Asia's ethnic strife. Only now are its policy makers acknowledging how difficult the region's ethnic and political crosscurrents can be.
 
Strains in the Caucacus
 While Turkey has carefully avoided disputes with Russia, diplomats also worry that Ankara may end up at loggerheads with Moscow in the Caucasus, a region rich in oil where their historical rivalry has led to wars in centuries past.
Most of all, the chaos in Azerbaijan -- the centerpiece of Turkey's regional aspirations -- has exposed Ankara's reluctance to act as an aggressive patron, still less a protector. Its protege in Baku, Abulfaz Elchibey, has been overthrown, devaluing Turkey's influence in the eyes of countries farther east.
"Azerbaijan was the model to show what would happen in the future," said Nur Batur, the diplomatic editor of the Istanbul daily Milliyet. "Now they will be much more distant."
A Western diplomat said: "A couple of years ago, it was possible to talk of Turkey being the patron of Central Asia, but the results have been different. If they can't do it in Azerbaijan, who thinks Turkey is going to be a major player in other places?"
While Turkish Government officials dispute such conclusions, they have begun to scale back their assessment of what Ankara can do or should be expected to do in a region where many speak Turkish and supposedly strive for Turkey's brand of secular democracy but have not forgotten more recent ties to Moscow.
"It is not up to Turkey to play the role of regional superpower," said Ozdem Samberk, a high-ranking Foreign Ministry official in Ankara. "Turkey's effort was to help Azerbaijan make a soft landing after the collapse of Communism. In no way was Turkey claiming that we were pretending to run the country."
President Suleyman Demirel, who has been faulted for his caution in diplomacy, said, "If anything happens in these countries, why should Turks be responsible?"
Developments in the Caucasus region have also shown the limits of Turkey's influence in an area where history and faith anchor its appeal to Muslim lands.
Its effort to mediate in the territorial dispute between Azerbaijan and predominantly Christian Armenia, for instance, has faltered. Some Azerbaijanis have accused Turkey of selling them out by supplying electric power to Armenia this year when Azerbaijan was trying to squeeze the Armenian economy through a fuel blockade, Ms. Batur said.
 
Oil Could Be the Spark
 Government officials and diplomats also speculate that disputes are likely to surface between Turkey and Russia over the single issue that may end up at the center of the regional struggle: oil.
A source of cheap oil during Soviet rule, Azerbaijan is now viewed as one of the world's last major untapped reserves. When the Soviet Union collapsed in December 1991, Azerbaijan was one of the few components that declined to join the Commonwealth of Independent States. As American and British oil companies sought exploration deals in Azerbaijan, talk turned to shipping the oil out through a pipeline running through Turkey.
The problem was getting the Azerbaijani oil into Turkey so it could link up with the pipeline that carried Iraqi oil to the Mediterranean before the United Nations embargo severed Baghdad's outlets. American oil companies did not like the idea of their oil passing through revolutionary Iran. But how secure could a pipeline through the Caucasus be while Armenia and Azerbaijan were at war? The answer, diplomats here said, was to build spurs through both areas and link them up in Turkey.
As negotiations on the 660-mile pipeline progressed, however, Mr. Elchibey was overthrown. The timing stirred suspicions among diplomats and commentators here -- echoed by Mr Elchibey -- that Russia was somehow behind it all.
In the 19th century, the Russian and Ottoman empires collided in the contest for influence in the region. Such historical considerations clearly figure in the caution being shown by Turkey.
"Turkey's policy is not to look back to history but to the future," Mr. Samberk said. "We would like to put these old demons away, not provoke them."

GRAPHIC: Map of Turkey shows the location of Ankara.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (97%); ASIA (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TURKEY; CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS TURKEY (97%); ASIA (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COLD WAR (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICS (72%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



110 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Reluctant Politician Dives Into Haiti's 'Hot Water'

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Aug. 3

 BODY:
With the passage of more than a month since he was asked in private by Haiti's exiled President to be his new prime minister, Robert Malval, has had plenty of time to contemplate the state of politics here.
Asked what he had discovered as he awaits approval of his nomination by a stalled and bickering National Assembly and is petitioned expectantly by all manner of supporters of the ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Mr. Malval, a businessman who had shied from politics in the past, quickly pronounced two words: "Tough. Vicious." 
 The assessment at once captured two realities, one about Haiti, the other about the man whose daunting assigned task is to guide the hemisphere's poorest and least stable country through its internationally assisted return to democratic government.
 
An Interim Leader
 The first is that Mr. Malval is a profoundly reluctant public figure who has accepted the job only on the condition, which he calls nonnegotiable, that he will play a strictly transitional role and will be replaced by a new prime minister by Dec. 15.
The other is that as Haiti's political and economic elites reluctantly await Father Aristide's return as President, scheduled for Oct. 31, many of the same bleak realities, from the intrigue and power contests, both petty and grand, to the stark class divides that led to the military coup in the first place remain intact.
Perhaps because of the scope of the challenge before him, Mr. Malval, a 50-year-old who has built his printing business, Le Natal, from scratch in 1976 to become one of the country's most successful medium-sized enterprises, states his goals simply.
"We are not a political bunch or a gang, my family," he said in a recent interview in his offices, speaking in an accent-free English polished as an undergraduate at the University of Miami.
 
'Jump in the Hot Water'
 "But we have always had a dream, and that is the creation of a state where rights are respected. I never wanted this job at all, but finally decided that if I had to jump in the hot water to achieve that, it was worth it."
Even before he can be sworn in, however, Mr. Malval has received a taste of just how hot the water can be. His selection has been the target of sniping behind the scenes by many among the leftist President's disparate backers who have complained that he is too light-skinned and too wealthy.
He has also been criticized for not being a professional politician, a trait he shares with Father Aristide, and as the imposed choice of Washington, a notion that all concerned dismiss as ridiculous.
For his part, Mr. Malval readily acknowledges the division of opinions about him, but with characteristic modesty, adds that the critics will eventually accept him "because the main criterion is that they know that I am the President's real choice."
 
Key Role in Talks
 The most visible public sign of the President's confidence came during United Nations-led negotiations on Haiti's future in New York last month during which Mr. Malval clearly eclipsed a number of better-known figures among Father Aristide's advisers.
Another source of tension has been the composition of a new Government. Impatience among the President's supporters for a return to public life after nearly two years of exile and frustration has been running high, and competition for a limited number of jobs has been fierce.
The resulting government, not yet announced, but already well known within political circles here, is composed of people considered close to the President, ideologically or personally, and not ministers necessarily chosen for their technical qualities or with a thought to creating a broader political consensus.
"The thing is Lavalas times Lavalas plus Lavalas," an official said, reflecting a common perception in among diplomats that Father Aristide has again drawn too heavily upon members or close sympathizers of his political movement, known as Lavalas. "It is a catastrophe that risks repeating all of the mistakes of the past."
 
Overthrow of Aristide
 Father Aristide was overthrown by soldiers in a violent coup in September 1991, after his style of governance, tightly reliant on an inner circle of trusted friends, had alienated many on the country's political scene, including one-time allies.
Mr. Malval, who himself became friends with Father Aristide in 1986, when he published some pamphlets for the priest, has earned respect from many for his forthrightness, including a willingness to express disagreement firmly with the ousted President.
Told of the controversy about the new government, Mr. Malval said the concerns of diplomats and others, though understandable, were misplaced.
"In 1991 we had a Government of friends of the President," he said in an interview a day before flying to Washington to meet with Father Aristide for the final time before a vote on his ratification, which is expected soon. "Now we have the political allies of the President, what I would call the a small concord.
"When the President is actually back in Haiti, he has made clear that we will then have a government of large concord. In the meantime, there is major job to be done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Malval, Haiti's Prime Minister-designate. (Daniel Morel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COUPS (78%); PETITIONS (72%); APPROVALS (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: MALVAL, ROBERT; FRENCH, HOWARD W JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



111 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: Strategy;
Short One Vote in the Senate, Clinton Allies Prowl the Hill

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
One vote short; four days to find it.
With that premise, the White House and senior Democrats abandoned most pretenses of finesse today and began beating the halls of Congress, searching for the single Democrat who might give President Clinton's budget package a winning margin in the Senate. 
 By day's end, they appeared to have located him. He is Senator Dennis DeConcini, an Arizonan who opposed the $500 billion package of taxes and spending cuts when the Senate voted on its version of the proposal in June.
"I think we've got him," a senior Democratic leader in the Senate said this afternoon. "If we haven't got him, there is no bill."
For his part, Mr. DeConcini was adamantly, insistently, noncommital. "I'm not ready for any interviews," he called out, not even turning his head, to a reporter who pursued him into an off-limits corridor deep inside the Capitol.
 
Clinton Reaches Out
 Reaching out to Senator DeConcini, President Clinton mentioned him in his White House address tonight, praising his proposed amendment to create a deficit-reduction trust fund.
Mr. Clinton said he would sign an executive order on Wednesday requiring that all new taxes included in the package go to deficit reduction.
Mr. DeConcini faces both a difficult re-election race next year and intense pressure back home to oppose the compromise version of the budget measure that House and Senate negotiators reached on Monday.
To swing him around, the negotiators reduced the number of affluent retirees who would owe higher taxes on their Social Security benefits. Arizona has a lot of well-off pensioners.
A top Administration official insisted today that Mr. DeConcini had not sought that prize, and that it had not been explicitly offered to him. Regardless, his purported willingness to cast his lot with the President is the bright spot for Democrats in what otherwise looks like a desperate hunt for votes. Indeed, Senate leaders say, Mr. DeConcini appears to be among the White House's last hopes.
All 44 Republicans and 7 Democrats, including Mr. DeConcini, are on record as opposing some version of the budget package, leaving the Democrats with but 49 votes in the 100-member Senate. Mr. Clinton has to convert at least one dissenter, giving him a tie that Vice President Al Gore could break -- if no further Democrats defect.
 
Counting the Noses
 Today, two of the seven rebel Democrats, Senators Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey and J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, said they would oppose the budget measure when it reached the Senate, probably on Friday. And the veteran Senate Democrat who offered the prediction on Mr. DeConcini said that three others -- David L. Boren of Oklahoma, Richard H. Bryan of Nevada and Richard C. Shelby of Alabama -- appeared beyond reach.
That leaves only Mr. DeConcini and Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia as potential converts, and hopes of drawing Mr. Nunn into the coalition appear slim.
As if that were not enough, other Senate Democrats who supported the package in June showed signs of disaffection. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who has groused that the bill does not do enough for small business, refused to declare himself an outright supporter today.
Potentially more ominous was the silence of Nebraska's junior Senator, Bob Kerrey, who has called for a special session of Congress to address the spending cuts that he says Mr. Clinton's budget package sidesteps.
 
Leaning Which Way?
 Mr. Kerrey was not talking to reporters today. Two senior Democrats who have talked with him had different opinions on his stance.
Steve Ricchetti, the White House's top Senate lobbyist, said: "He hasn't said yes. He hasn't said no. We're still working on him."
With Mr. Clinton's reputation and a five-year, $500 billion package of taxes and spending cuts on the line, the Democrats began throwing themselves and anything else they could find into an effort to win over new support.
The President spoke on national television tonight trying to rally grass-roots support, and he planned an early-morning visit to House Democrats on Wednesday.
 
Take Nothing for Granted
 Some conservative Democratic representatives, led by Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, have indicated that they will switch sides and vote against the bill this time to protest the 4.3-cents-a-gallon gasoline tax that the negotiators agreed to. Mr. Stenholm voted for the bill last time.
The White House and Democrats in Congress expressed confidence, nonetheless. "We would have a problem in the House if we ever made the mistake of taking it for granted," said Mr. Clinton's chief lobbyist, Howard Paster. "We don't take it for granted."
The Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, made the same point, saying, "We're confident; we're not complacent."
The Senate's majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, was outwardly just as confident. "We're going to have the votes when the bill comes before the Senate, and we're going to pass it," he said.
 
The Most Affluent
 Democratic senators and representatives emphasized that higher income taxes would be owed by only the most affluent 1.2 percent of taxpayers, and that families with incomes below $30,000 would pay lower taxes because of an expansion in the earned-income tax credit.
Effective this year, the top income tax rate, now 31 percent, would be raised to 36 percent for single people on their taxable incomes from $115,000 to $250,000 and for couples on their taxable incomes from $140,000 to $250,000. The new rate would be 39.6 percent on taxable income above $250,000. Fewer than two million of the nation's 115 million taxpayers would be affected.
Taxable income is what is left after deductions and personal exemptions are subtracted from adjusted gross income. A couple with a taxable income of $140,000, for instance, generally has a total income of about $180,000.
Democrats called the expansion of the earned-income tax credit, which reduces taxes and in some cases pays rebates to poor and lower-middle-income workers, the most important antipoverty measure in years.
 
The Childless Poor
 The maximum annual credit for a working couple with two children would be $3,554. For a couple with one child, it would be $2,050. This is the benefit the President has said was designed to make certain that no one with children who worked full time would have incomes below the official poverty line, defined in 1991 as a yearly income of $11,140 for a family of three.
At least some benefit under the tax credit would be available to workers with two children and incomes up to $27,000 and those with one child and incomes up to $23,760. But the size of the benefit would diminish with each dollar earned after $11,000 a year.
For the first time, childless poor people would be entitled to a small credit. The maximum would be $300 a year, and some benefit would be available to childless workers with incomes below $9,000 a year.
Congressional staff members estimate that 18 million people would qualify for the tax credit, six million more than now qualify for a less generous credit.
 
Affecting Some Retirees
 Higher income taxes would also be owed by 5.4 million affluent retirees, who would be required to pay taxes on up to 85 percent of their Social Security benefits, instead of 50 percent as they do now. Single retirees with incomes (including half their Social Security benefits) above $34,000 and couples with incomes above $44,000 would be affected. Thirteen percent of all Social Security beneficiaries would owe the higher taxes.
For weeks now, Democrats have tried to conceal those and other provisions from public scrutiny, lest lobbyists and angry voters generate pressure. Today, they changed strategy, a propaganda offensive that cast the compromise package as the nation's best and last hope, at least for a while, of getting the Government under control.
The locations of the battle fronts betrayed their strategy. The Democratic National Committee ran television advertisements in the states of Senators Boren, Nunn, Bryan, Kerrey and DeConcini, as well as in Washington.
The White House budget director, Leon E. Panetta, presented himself to Mr. DeConcini's home-state press for interviews. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen has all but moved in with Senator Nunn, one Administration official said, and other Cabinet secretaries have been dispatched to the same roster of battleground states.
The President himself courted Mr. Boren's business and political friends today and met by satellite with the press from Mr. DeConcini's state. He also wooed Senator Bryan and others, not for the first time.
"I'm very fond of the President personally; he's very effective," said Senator Bryan, who was called by Mr. Clinton this morning, a change from the usual Oval Office visit.
 
'Tired of the Food'
 "Everybody's been down there so much, they're tired of the food," one Democrat, Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana, said of Mr. Clinton's shuttle diplomacy between the White House and Congress.
Whether they wanted it or not, some Democrats like Mr. DeConcini also have gotten sweeteners in the budget measure intended to make it easier for them to vote for the package.
The hope, said one senior Administration official who demanded anonymity, is that Presidential carrots and public-relations sticks will soften the political opposition enough to convince at least one senator that it is safe to change his mind.
"All they need, if they're in a mind to vote with you, is to give them a difference with the first time around," that official said. "It gives them a legitimate way to go back to the folks at home and say, 'I couldn't vote for the bill before, but I got this or that fixed for you, and now I think it's important to lower the deficit.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona appears to be among the White House's last hopes for pushing President Clinton's budget package through the Senate. He listened to testimony at a Senate Judiciary committee on assault weapons yesterday in Washington. At right was Senator Paul Simon. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DECONCINI, DENNIS (SEN) BILL CLINTON (94%); RICHARD SHELBY (78%); AL GORE (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



112 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2808 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
Transcript of the President's Address on the Budget Compromise

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Clinton's address to the nation last night from the Oval Office, as recorded by The New York Times:
Good evening. 
 Tonight, I want to report to you on the progress we've made, and to ask for your help on our nation's most urgent priority: reviving the American dream by restoring the American economy.
It's been at least 30 years since a President has asked Americans to take personal responsibility for our country's future. It's been 25 years since our Government had a balanced budget. For at least 20 years, middle-class incomes have been nearly stagnant, with too many Americans working nights, weekends and holidays just to make ends meet.
For at least 10 years, costs in our health care system have exploded while millions of Americans go to bed each night worrying that if they lost their jobs or their children get sick their health insurance will be taken away.
And for the last several years, our economy has failed to generate jobs, good jobs that pay enough to own a home, buy a car, pay the bills, educate your children and retire with dignity.
For too long our Government has failed to tackle these problems. We've been given the politics of entitlement, Government handouts without asking anything in return. And we've been given the politics of abandonment: cutting taxes on the well-off and asking nothing of them in return either, while raising taxes on the middle class to pay more for the same government, instead of investing in our jobs and our future.
The results: fewer jobs, stagnant income, a massive debt for ourselves and our children, higher costs and greater insecurity in health care and a host of problems simply neglected.
 
Call for Responsibility

Well, tonight we're on the verge of breaking out of that old false choice between tax and spend, and trickle down, between abandonment and entitlement, on the verge of a new way of doing things grounded in our most enduring values, a philosophy that says America owes all of us an opportunity if we'll assume responsibility for ourselves, our communities and our country. No more something for nothing; we're all in this together.
This means we must make Government work for the people who pay the bills.
All of us have been awed in the last few weeks by the vast power of the Mississippi River breaking its banks and the devastation that has followed. But we've also been awed by the courage of the flood victims and the compassion of other Americans who have joined them in fighting back the waters and trying to restore normal life. I'm especially proud that this time the Federal Government has been fighting alongside the people.
That is what we must do on all fronts. We must do more, much more, to turn this country around, and now we have the chance to change. We're on the eve of historic action.
This week Congress will cast a crucial vote on my plan for economic recovery. In a comprehensive economic plan there are always places for give and take. But from the first day to this day, I have stood firm on certain ideas and ideals that are at the heart of this plan. Tonight I can report to you that every one of those principles is contained in the final version of the plan.
First, the largest deficit reduction in history -- nearly $500 billion -- with more spending cuts than tax increases. Rather than the games and gimmicks of the past, this plan has 200 specific spending cuts and it reduces Government spending by more than $250 billion. We cut more than 100,000 positions from the Federal payroll by attrition, we freeze discretionary spending for five years, we limit pay increases for Federal employees.
Why must we take extraordinary action now?
Well this chart shows you why. America faces a choice: We can continue on the path of higher deficits and lower growth, or we can make a fundamental change to improve our nation's economy by adopting my economic plan.
Now it won't be easy and it won't be quick, but it is necessary. Without deficit reduction we can't have sustained economic growth.
Economists and business leaders alike warn us that growth will falter if we don't take dramatic steps to tame this deficit and soon. With so much at stake, it would be irresponsible not to take decisive action. With this plan in place, the economy will grow and more than eight million new jobs will be created in the next four years. Without it, we put the economy and our standard of living at further risk. If we take this important first step now, over the long run we will see deficits go down and jobs go up.
The second principle of this plan is fairness: those who have the most contribute the most. As this chart shows, we asked the well-off to pay their fair share, requiring that at least 80 percent of the new tax burden fall on those making more than $200,000 a year and very little on any other Americans, not to punish the successful but simply to ask something of the very people whose incomes went up most and whose taxes went down during the 1980's.
For working families making less than $180,000 a year there will be no income tax increase. I repeat, for working families making less than $180,000 a year there will be no income tax increase.
The third principle is that we must protect older Americans from punitive cuts in Social Security, Medicare and veterans' benefits that some have proposed.
While all Americans must do their part, I will not balance the budget on the backs of older Americans while protecting the wealthy. Every alternative offered by the opponents of change begins with deep cuts in the health care of older Americans.
I believe we must build a better future for our children without sacrificing the security of their grandparents. We can control health care costs, but only by reforming the health care system, not simply by hurting the elderly.
The fourth principle is that we must keep faith with the hard-working middle-class families who are the heart and strength of our nation. We worked hard on this plan to insure the lowest possible tax on the middle class.
The plan asked an average working family to pay no more than $3 a month in new taxes, less than a dime a day, with a 4.3-cent-a-gallon increase in the gas tax. This is the only new tax working people will pay.
Let me be plain about where the deficit reduction comes from. Look at this chart. Out of every $10 in deficit reduction, $5 -- and actually a little more -- comes from spending cuts; $4 comes from taxes on incomes of those with more than $200,000 a year in income; and just $1 comes from everyone else.
This plan is fair. It's balanced. And it will work.
Finally, we must have an economy that creates jobs and lifts up the American people. In the past, deficit reduction efforts have failed because they neglected incentives for business growth and investments to make Americans smarter and stronger and safer.
 
Incentives for Business

This plan is very different. It generates jobs. In fact, over 90 percent of the small businesses in this whole country are eligible for tax reductions, tax cuts, if they invest in their future and create new jobs. If you have the courage to invest in a new business and the vision to hold that investment for five years, this plan will cut your capital gains tax in half. If your business invests in research and development, this plan will reward you. If your small business creates new jobs and buys new equipment, this plan will provide incentives for growth by nearly doubling the expensing provision for new investments.
While we make deep cuts in spending, we also make room for some needed investments. Our plan invests in people and makes special investments in our children and our families through Head Start, nutrition for pregnant mothers and immunizations for poor children. These things pay for themselves in healthy growing strong children. We will revolutionize the student loan program so that all Americans can better afford to finance a college education and we make bold changes in worker training so that high school graduates can get high-skill, high-wage jobs.
Perhaps most important, this plan rewards work over welfare by lifting out of poverty every parent with children at home who chooses full-time work over lifetime welfare. We do this through the earned-income tax credit, which reduces taxes for 20 million working families and households earning less than $27,000 a year. It does this without creating a new government bureaucracy and simply using the tax code.
This sends an enormously powerful message to the people who struggle against great odds to raise themselves and their families. It empowers them; it says we're on the side of people who work and care about their children. It's pro-work, it's pro-family and it is a critical first step to one of my most important priorities: ending welfare as we know it.
Every element of this plan is a departure from business as usual, and if there's anything our country needs, it's to put business as usual out of business.
I know full well that Americans are very skeptical of any claim by the government. You must wonder if these cuts are for real and whether the taxes will really be used to pay down the deficit. Well, our plan is fundamentally different from business as usual. Here's why:
First, the plan is based on conservative estimates of future revenues. It presents line-by-line, year-by-year specific cuts in government spending. And it offers new incentives so we can expand the economy and generate jobs.
It minimizes the burden on the middle class and asks the wealthy to pay their fair share.
And, finally, it puts into place two clear safeguards to keep a watchful eye on future Federal spending while protecting the savings produced by this plan.
All the money we save will be locked away in a deficit-reduction trust fund so the savings will not be spent on politicians' pet projects. Because some in the Senate have used technicalities to block Senator DeConcini's amendment to create the deficit reduction trust fund and frustrated the efforts of many other Senators and a clear majority of the House of Representatives who support it and who support controls on annual spending and entitlement programs, I will sign executive orders tomorrow putting both these safeguards in place so that you know the money must be spent on deficit reduction. And if we miss our deficit-reduction targets over the next five years, I will be obliged to present a plan to correct the course to make sure we keep doing what we're telling we're going to do. Now this is a new direction.
 
Effect on Interest Rates

This plan has been carefully examined by the most conservative and skeptical critics of all, those who run our nation's financial markets. They've studied the plan and determined that over the long term, paying down the deficit will be good for the country. And as we have made progress in enacting this plan, the markets have lowered interest rates. Lower interest rates, in turn, make it easier to own a home, finance a business, buy a car, pay off credit cards and borrow for college. For example, if you're a middle-class family with a $100,000 mortgage at 10 percent interest, you should be able to refinance the mortgage today down to 7.5 percent and save $175 a month right away as millions of Americans have already done.
The chief executive officers of 80 of our country's most successful companies, Republicans and Democrats alike, have also supported this plan. So do many small business organizations from the National Small Business United and the National Association of the Self Employed to the National Venture Capital Association. The men and women whose business it is to create jobs and growth have been solid in their support of this historic endeavor.
At this exceptional moment of promise, why are so many in Washington so reluctant to take action? Why is it so hard for so many in this city to break the bad habits of the past and take the steps we all know we have to take?
For five months, our critics had the chance to offer alternatives. And all the major plans came up with the same thing: less deficit reduction or more pain for older Americans, or both; protections for the wealthy from paying their fair share of the taxes, and no new incentives for business to create jobs or investments in the American people.
And every one of these alternatives was soundly rejected in the Congress. Now there are only two choices: our plan or no plan. Our opponents want to bring the plan down; the guardians of gridlock will do anything to preserve the status quo, to serve special interests and to drag this thing out.
They practice partisanship when we need progress. They call for delay when we've been waiting for 12 years, and working on this project for months. They talk and talk about what to do instead of doing what must be done.
When I was the Governor of Arkansas, our state had one of the lowest tax burdens in the country. I inherited this big Federal deficit just like you did, and I don't like taxes any more than you do. But our nation is in economic danger, and now we've got to take this problem we inherited -- you and I -- and do something about it. We have to take responsibility for change.
Passing this plan will be a bold step and the first step on a longer journey toward giving our nation a comprehensive national economic strategy. This economic strategy begins with putting our house in order, but it cannot end there.
We must also have the courage to reform our health care system so never again will a family be denied health care or a business be bankrupted by health care costs. Let me show you this first chart one more time.
If you look at this deficit, under our plan we can bring the debt down solidly for five years. If you want the deficit to go down to zero -- as I think almost all of you do -- we have got to challenge the health care system. It is bankrupting the private sector, bankrupting the public sector and millions of Americans live in insecurity and constant fear of losing their health care. So dealing with health care is good for the economy, good for bringing the deficit down further and good for the American people.
We also have to end welfare as we know it. We can move millions of idle Americans off the welfare rolls and onto the work rolls if we'll change the system.
And we've got to revolutionize government itself, cleaning out waste, corruption; bringing state-of-the-art management that will give more savings to the taxpayers, have government work better and put it back in charge of the people who are paying the bill. And we must continue to work to open foreign markets to create American jobs.
All of these things come together to form an economic strategy that will give opportunity to every American and ask responsibility from every American.
But we can't take any of the steps if we don't take the first step.
That's why the decision Congress must make this week is so terribly important. We cannot afford not to act.
I need your help. I need for you to tell the people's representatives to get on with the people's business.
Tell them to change the direction of the economy -- and do it now -- so that we can start growing again, producing jobs again, and moving our country forward again.
 
Previous Successes

In the last six months, we won some important battles here. A new family and medical-leave law just taking effect that allows young parents to take time off to care of a new baby or a sick child or an ill parent without losing their jobs. A new national service corps that will help tens of thousands of our young people to pay for college through service to their country in their communities. A new Supreme Court Justice confirmed just today without partisanship or rancor.
New policies to develop high-technology jobs and to convert defense facilities and plants to productive civilian purposes, expanding jobs and opportunity.
And, from a summit in Vancouver, Canada, to help save Russian democracy; to a summit in Tokyo to help revive the world economy, there are now new opportunities for Americans and a new respect for America's leadership.
We Americans are a people both privileged and challenged. We were formed in turbulent times and we stand now at the beginning of a new time -- the dawn of a new era. Our deeds and decisions can lift America up so that in our third century we will continue to be the youngest and most optimistic of nations -- a people on the march once again, strong and unafraid.
If we are bold in our hopes, if we meet our great responsibilities, we will give the country we love the best years it has ever known.
Good night and may God bless you all on this journey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (75%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); LAYOFFS (69%); TAX INCREASES (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); HEALTH CARE (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



113 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Those Who Live by the Air-Conditioner;
A Day of (Electric Bill) Reckoning Comes Along With More Heat

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
None of the 90 windows in Peter Obletz's single-story building in Manhattan has been open since the temperature surged past 90 last month, so no one heard Mr. Obletz groan when the electric bill came. Thirty days of round-the-clock air-conditioning cost him $552.82, $190 more than in the windows-open-in-the-evening month of June.
"You pay for what you get," said Mr. Obletz, a transportation consultant. "We got cool." 
 Another heat wave has arrived just as New Yorkers are discovering the legacy of the last round of high temperatures: high utility bills.
The temperature yesterday climbed to 94 degrees in Central Park, two degrees short of a record. But from Sea Cliff, L.I., to Sea Bright, N.J., people with air-conditioner knobs that go to 10 wished for 11. Some wondered if they would feel any cooler if they taped little ribbons over the vent where the not-cool-enough air comes out.
Others remembered the line in James Agee's "Knoxville: Summer of 1915" about the time of evening when people sit on their porches, rocking gently and talking gently. In Knoxville yesterday, in the summer of 1993, the temperature was only 85. But in sweltering Manhattan, the problem with sitting on the porch or the front stoop or the high-rise balcony -- and trying to carry on a conversation -- was that hum. "You expect a nice, quiet summer night," said Gail J. Franck, a Manhattan consultant. "Instead, you get the dull roar of all the air conditioners."
And customers get big bills. In one household on the Upper West Side, the Con Edison bill brought an unexpected memory of the weekend the couple left the steamy, sweaty city behind -- and left the air-conditioner on. For the cats, of course. The bill for July came to $138.70, $63 more than for June.
In other apartments where air-conditioning is a must, not a maybe, the added cost was, pardon the expression, no sweat. Andy Cahill, a talent agent in Manhattan, said the bill for her two bedrooms was $100 in July, $20 more than in June.
"This is money well spent," she said. "My business is detail work and listening carefully. If I'm exhausted and hot, I can't do contracts because I start making mistakes."
She has been hot a lot. The National Weather Service said that so far this year, there have been 29 days of temperatures of 90 or above: one in May, five in June, 20 in July and two in August. The July figure smashed the mark of 17 days of 90-plus readings, set in 1944.
The figures on how much electricity was used in the hottest July on record are not in yet. Con Edison said it would not have the total until Thursday. Elaine Davis, a spokeswoman for the Long Island Lighting Company, said demand yesterday afternoon was 3,550 megawatts, below the record-setting 3,970-megawatt day July 9 but still above average.
And in Connecticut, power companies said they were not straining. The United Illuminating Company, which serves New Haven, Bridgeport and 17 towns in between, said they could handle the demand because so many manufacturing customers had left the area in the recession.
 
Living by the Thermostat
 Conservation may also make a difference. Millie Stempa, the owner of a restaurant in Great Neck, L.I., said she turns the lights off and the air-conditioning down between 3:30 and 5 P.M. every day. "When the dinner crowd starts arriving," she said, "I turn the A.C. up again."
Milt Caffyn of Eatontown, N.J., installed timers on his central air-conditioning system: on at 3 P.M., a couple of hours before he and his wife get home from work, and off at 7 A.M., shortly before they leave. Even so, his wife estimated that they pay up to $200 a month for electricity when all the appliances are running, about $50 more than in cooler weather.
But Bob DeSimone has no gizmos in his house. He makes his living repairing air-conditioners, but at home, "we go back to basics." In other words, fans.
"They work great," he said.
Better, apparently, than his customers' compressors. He said his workload doubled in July.
"I am flooded with calls," he said. "People are complaining that their units are malfunctioning. The problem is people go season to season and never bother to call their air-conditioning people to do maintenance on their system. The system malfunctions; it breaks down. Usually it will trip a circuit breaker or blow a fuse."
 
By Degrees and Dollars
 Mr. Obletz said he had changed the filter a dozen times in the last six weeks and had done his supposedly once-a-year maintenance twice, checking the belts, hosing out the condenser, lubricating the fan bearings.
"It's a life-support system," he said. "If it's anything above 72 outside, I'll turn on the air-conditioning. In the evenings, it used to be possible to open the windows if I was working late. I used to keep them open until about 11."
Now his time-controlled thermostat goes into cryogenic mode at 9 A.M. At 2 A.M., about the time Mr. Obletz usually stops working for the night, it raises the temperature by 8 degrees. "I can live with that," he said.
The bill, with its chart showing month-by-month usage, was harder. "The little bar graph on the bill went down, down, down," he said, "and then whoops, it jumped way up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stuck in the snarl of Manhattan traffic, air-conditioning for Peter Kaczynski, left, and his mates at Ideal Fire Control Company was as remote as an easy drive through the Garment District. Their only relief was to open the windows. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times); On an outing to Green Acres Park in Jersey City, Natasha Ayala was learning that one way to beat the heat was to look cool. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE; CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NY INC CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE; CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; AIR CONDITIONING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PROCESS STEAM UTILITIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



114 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
30-Year Bond at a Low of 6.52%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The yield on the 30-year bond neared 6.50 percent briefly yesterday but the buying lost some of its momentum in the afternoon. Yet the yield still ended at 6.52 percent, a 16-year low for the yield on the 30-year bond.
The price of the 30-year bond was up 15/32 of a point as the yield fell from 6.55 percent Monday. The yields on other Treasury notes followed the same volatile pattern to end the day down. But they are still above the lows reached for this year. 
 The yield on the 10-year note dropped to 5.79 percent, from 5.83 percent Monday, with the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rising 9/32 of a point. The yield is still well above the 5.69 percent hit on July 16.
The yield on the two-year Treasury note fell to 4.15 percent, from 4.18 percent the day before, but it is still above the 3.71 percent reached on April 22 and the 3.67 percent touched last Oct. 5. The price of the two-year note rose 2/32 of a point.
 
Yields Near Lowest Levels
 A volatile market seems to be the order of the day recently, with yields at or near their lowest levels in decades and the economic outlook still uncertain. The wait for the vote in Congress on the President's deficit reduction plan is adding a special dose of concern this week.
All it took was a minuscule one-tenth of a percent increase in the Government's index of leading economic indicators to set the buying off this morning. Then rumors of Democratic defections that could sink the reduction plan in the Senate erased some gains in the afternoon. Some traders were also disappointed when the Federal Reserve, as some analysts had predicted, did not buy some Treasury notes as part of its regular market operations.
Since the Commerce Department report last week that the nation's economy grew at a paltry annual rate of 1.6 percent in the second quarter, the bond market has rallied on the belief that continued slow growth will assure that inflation will not become a problem soon. In addition, short-term maturities have been helped by the view that the Federal Reserve would not move to raise interest rates with the economy still so weak.
But themes change quickly in this market. Just the week before this current rise in Treasury prices, there was a selloff after the Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, convinced investors that the economy would be stronger than expected in the second quarter and that the next move by the Federal Reserve would be to raise short-term interest rates to counter any inflationary pressures.
Now, investors could get some new data within the next two weeks that could again suggest the reverse: that the economy is a little stronger than the meager growth rate for the first half of the year indicates. In other words, the market may still be on a seesaw.
On Friday, the Labor Department releases the employment report for July. It is expected to show a growth in nonfarm payroll jobs of 185,000 jobs, according to the consensus forecast of Bloomberg Business News. But if the increase is much higher, investors could decide to sell with the market already at such high price and low yield levels.
On the following Friday comes the Consumer Price Index for last month, with the Bloomberg consensus increase at one-tenth of a percent. But some forecasts are at three-tenths of a percent, which could be more worrisome if the employment report is also stronger than expected.
 
Municipal Bonds
 The municipal-bond market was flooded with more than $3 billion of new bonds yesterday and could soon surpass its record of new issues set last year.
According to the Securities Data Company, new issues totaled $169.1 billion through July, up from $129.6 billion through July of last year, an increase of 30.4 percent. In all of 1992, new issues reached a record total of $234 billion.
Of the total of new issues this year, $111.3 billion, or 66 percent, were for refunding outstanding bonds as states, cities and towns took advantage of interest rates now at their lowest levels in decades.
But while the new issues are on a pace to set a record, the selling appears to have slowed in the last several months. In July, new issues totaled $21.9 billion, with 755 separate issues, down from $30.2 billion and 1,334 issues in June and $28.3 billion and 1,236 issues in May. April was just a bit lower than July at $21.8 billion while March came in at $29.7 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows the yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



115 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Economic and Trade Fears Broadly Depress the Dollar

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar sank to one more postwar low against the yen yesterday amid concern about Japan's trade surplus with the United States. Weak American economic data and a gradual return of calm in the European Monetary System depressed the dollar against European currencies, too.
The dollar fell at one point to 104 yen in Tokyo trading, dropping below the 104.05 yen level in New York on Monday. But it bounced back slightly in New York late yesterday, where it was quoted at 104.42 yen, up from 104.37 yen late Monday. And despite rounds of purchases by the Bank of Japan, the dollar fell in Tokyo to 104.35 yen, from 104.61 on Monday. 
 "The market is pricing in Japan's current account" surplus data, to be reported today, said Lars Pederson, international economist at Chemical Securities in New York. The surplus, a measure dominated by foreign trade, is expected to widen to $11 billion from $9.36 billion a year ago. That might spur American demands for a stronger yen to lessen exports by Japan while increasing imports, currency dealers said.
 
More Bad News
 The dollar was set back when the Commerce Department reported in Washington yesterday that leading economic indicators in June rose only one-tenth of 1 percent, less than had been expected by many forecasters.
"Since there are no strong U.S. figures, there's no strong incentive to buy dollars," said Ryuichi Shimokawa, foreign exchange manager at Sumitomo Bank in New York.
"The market is basically long dollars," said Jim Phoenix, a dealer at Canadian International Bank of Commerce. "There's still some unwinding of safe haven positions" built up in the dollar as money has recently been withdrawn from European currencies' dropping against the dollar, the yen and the German mark. Rebounds by the dollar only produced selling by European central banks' seeking to replenish funds that had been spent to support the weak currencies.
The dollar was up for a short time against the mark yesterday after the German central bank lowered its 14-day repurchase rate to 6.80 percent from 6.95 percent. But in late New York trading, it fell to 1.7065 marks, from 1.7085 marks on Monday.
The British pound rose to $1.5015 in New York, from $1.5040 on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); BOCH (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); BANK OF COMMERCE HOLDINGS (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (93%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



116 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Declines as Platinum Gains on Labor Unrest Talk

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Gold and silver prices sagged yesterday as confusion in the European currency markets subsided. Platinum futures, meanwhile, rallied on talk of a strike against a large South African producer.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery fell $2.50, to $403.40 an ounce; December gold, the most actively traded contract, fell $2.60, to $407.60. And September silver tumbled 7.3 cents, to $5.385 an ounce. 
 Gold rose more than $13 an ounce last week after the German central bank decided not to cut a key lending rate. The move set off a rash of speculation in weaker European currencies and drove investors to gold as a safe haven.
On Monday, European officials loosened exchange-rate constraints and yesterday the German central bank lowered a short-term interest rate. The moves helped to quiet the European currency markets.
"It's taken away an important short-term prop from the gold market," said William O'Neill, senior futures strategist with Merrill Lynch Futures in New York.
Ian MacDonald, manager of precious metal trading for the Swiss bank Credit Suisse in New York, said the gold market appeared to consolidating recent gains in preparation for another upward move. "Gold is back in fashion with a lot of investors because of the mistrust in currencies now," he said.
October platinum, meanwhile, rose $1.60 on the New York Mercantile Exchange to $424.70 an ounce on hazy reports of a strike against Impala Platinum, the second-largest South African producer of the metal.
On other commodity markets, energy futures slipped. Light sweet crude oil for September delivery fell 12 cents on the New York Mercantile Exchange to $17.85 a barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IMPO (JSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: IMPALA PLATINUM HOLDINGS IMPALA PLATINUM HOLDINGS LTD (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); MERRILL LYNCH PIERCE FENNER & SMITH INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMPALA PLATINUM HOLDINGS COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; EUROPE EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; SILVER; PLATINUM; FUTURES TRADING; CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; LABOR; STRIKES; PRICES FUTURES (94%); GOLD MARKETS (93%); PLATINUM MARKETS (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); STRIKES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



117 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Index of Leading Indicators Was Up a Scant 0.1% in June

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
The Government's main forecasting gauge barely inched up in June, and its decline in May was slightly larger than had originally been estimated, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
The index of leading indicators, which is supposed to offer a six-to-nine-month look ahead at the economy, rose a scant one-tenth of 1 percent in June. May's decline was four-tenths of 1 percent, not the three-tenths of 1 percent originally reported. 
 The gain in the index was less than expected; many forecasters had anticipated a gain of two-tenths or three-tenths of 1 percent.
Investors took the so-so report as another sign that the economy would remain relatively weak in the second half of the year, so they bought bonds and sold stocks and dollars. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond ended at 6.52 percent, a new 16-year low, after dropping as low as 6.50 percent earlier in the day.
 
More Momentum Possible
 But some economists, while acknowledging that the economy was growing at a modest pace, said that other recent data suggested more momentum than the index of leading indicators seemed to reflect.
"Growth won't be robust, but it should be in the 2.5 percent to 3 percent range or even higher" for the second half of 1993, said David Mullins, vice chairman at the Federal Reserve Board. Growth in the first half of the year averaged 1.2 percent.
The index, a compilation of 11 forward-looking indicators of economic activity, from consumer expectations to new building permits, was slightly lower in June than it was last December but still well above most of last year.
Six of the components rose and five fell. A drop in first-time unemployment claims, higher stock prices and a big jump in orders for new equipment and contracts for business construction helped push the index up slightly.
At the same time, though, factory orders for long-lasting goods, a portent of future production, got a lot thinner and the time it takes businesses to fill orders, a sign of how busy factories are, shrank.
Most economists say the leading indicators are of limited use.
"The index really tells us June was a sluggish month, which we already knew," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch. "But it doesn't tell us much about how the rest of the year will develop."
The economy, he said, has been doing better than it looks on the surface. Consumers and businesses, despite their sour moods, spent briskly during the spring. The main reason the economy grew at a sluggish 1.7 percent annual rate was that business cut inventory growth sharply.
What's more, car and truck production is scheduled to rise sharply this month, and that could lift sales for a host of businesses that supply Detroit. And construction spending, which sagged in the spring, may turn up. Builders started enough new projects in the last three months to lead to sizable gains in construction outlays in the third quarter. In addition, mortgage applications, a forward-looking indicator of home building, jumped in July.
"The economy is going to look stronger in the second half than in the first half, even though the leading indicators aren't alerting us to that possibility" Mr. Steinberg said.
The economy added nearly a million jobs in the first half of the year, more than in all of 1992.
"Adding jobs, along with these other factors, has to reduce the downside risk," Mr. Mullins said, noting that Friday's report on jobs for July would shed more light on how strong or weak the economy is.
Some supply-side economists have been predicting that raising the top marginal income-tax rate for high-income Americans could stop the economy dead in its tracks. But other economists dismiss that possibility.
"Most people aren't going to see their taxes change," Mr. Steinberg said. "It's not clear that the Government will increase withholding taxes from paychecks this year."
Besides, he added, whatever the effects on the economy, they are more apt to show up next year.
The Government's index of coincident indicators, which is meant to measure current, rather than future, activity, fell by three-tenths of 1 percent in June, after rising by the same amount in May.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" shows index of 11 indicators designed to "lead" overall economic activity from Jan. '92-June '93. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" shows components of the index of leading economic indicatros and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from May to June. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); BUILDING PERMITS (63%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



118 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial

DATELINE: McMINNVILLE, Ore.

 BODY:
E ACH week's mail brings notice of yet another wine conference. Or wine symposium. Or judging. Or festival. Few of these gatherings seem to concern themselves with the simple enjoyment of wine -- which is why I routinely throw out the invitations, including one from the International Pinot Noir Celebration, held in Oregon.
A mistake. I should have looked closer. Fortunately, word trickled down. Gerald Asher laid it out in Gourmet magazine a few months ago. He talked of "the gaiety of the event and its lack of pretension." Of drinking wine for pleasure. 
 He was singing my song. So, a couple of Thursdays ago, I found myself driving out of the Portland International Airport toward this bustling little city (population 20,000), 45 miles to the southwest toward the Oregon coast.
McMinnville is Oregon's unofficial wine capital. There are some 50 wineries in the Willamette Valley, most of them less than an hour from here. McMinnville is also the home of Linfield College, which is so all-American that it could have been ordered by Louis B. Mayer for an Andy Hardy movie. Since it began in 1987, the Pinot Noir Celebration has been held on the Linfield campus.
Many of the regulars at the celebration are involved in the wine business, but many are not: a high school principal from Chicago, for example; two retirees from British Columbia; a young couple, both San Francisco lawyers, with their baby in a backpack carrier, and dozens of others whose only interest in wine is drinking it.
There are no serious lectures; no wisdom dispensed from on high. Everyone mingles. Your table mate at lunch may be a wine maker from Burgundy, or a grape grower from New Zealand, or a high-school principal from Chicago.
The formula seems to work. This year's celebration was sold out in April, and many attendees this year signed up for 1994 before they left. It helps that the weekend is limited to about 550 people -- something like a big family reunion.
Sixty wineries took part this year: 20 from Oregon, 21 from California, 13 from France, two each from Italy and Australia, and one each from New Zealand and New York State.
Throughout the weekend, from Friday through Sunday, the selection of wines available -- not just to taste but to drink -- was extraordinary. And there were plenty of good white wines, too, mostly chardonnays from Oregon and Burgundy.
To the delight of the amateurs, the professionals regularly misidentified blind-tasted wines. Comments like "obviously Burgundian" and "clearly an Oregon wine" were wrong as often as they were right. This took the experts down a peg; it also demonstrated how close in quality the American and French wines were.
True Burgundian-style pinot noir was, for years, an elusive goal for American wine makers. Andre Tchelistcheff, the doyen of California vintners, recalled making a fine pinot noir at Beaulieu Vineyards in the late 1940's. But he said ruefully that he doesn't recall how he did it, and he admitted he was never able to do it again.
In the late 1960's and early 1970's, a few Oregon wine makers discovered that they had the soil and the climate to create fine Burgundy-style pinot noir. Unlike Mr. Tchelistcheff, they have been able to do it again and again, although not every year and not always with Burgundian panache.
By the mid-1970's, Oregon wines were winning prizes in France. Then in 1983, Robert Drouhin, a leading Burgundy wine producer, paid Oregon the ultimate tribute: he planted grapes and built a winery here. Since 1980, Oregon's pinot noir acreage has increased tenfold, and it is neither inaccurate nor unfair to say that today, in blind tastings, Oregon pinot noirs regularly equal or surpass competitors from the Cote d'Or in France and from California.
The Pinot Noir Celebration owes much to the chefs who come here each year both to taste the wines and to show off their culinary skills. This year they included Michael Wild from Bay Wolf in Oakland, Calif., Thierry Guillot from La Cote d'Or in Nuits-Saint-Georges in Burgundy and half a dozen chefs from popular Oregon restaurants.
Most meals were taken in the college dining room, with much passing of bottles from table to table. Wine stewards in black tie were on hand but had little to do as people wandered through the room trading, say, a 1987 estate bottling from Knudsen Erath in Oregon for a 1990 Pommard from the Domaine Parent in Burgundy.
The gustatory highlight of the weekend was a Saturday night salmon bake under the ancient oak trees on the Linfield campus. The salmon are cooked on barrel staves jammed into the ground over a huge fire pit. And, yes, pinot noir does go with fish.
The International Pinot Noir Celebration is held on the last weekend of July. Information is available from the festival's director, Pat Dudley, at P.O. Box 1310, McMinnville, Ore. Telephone: (503) 472-8964.
 
TASTINGS
Franciscan Vineyards Meritage, 1988, Oakville Estate; about $20.
 
These are, we are told, hard times in the California wine country, what with the recession and phylloxera insects in the vines. Perhaps, but you'd never know it from some of the prices. It's hard to find a winery of some repute that isn't pushing a $35-a-bottle cabernet. Well, here's a $20 cabernet that's as good as almost any of the $35 versions. Franciscan is a Napa Valley winery that consistently produces high-quality wines at reasonable prices. Its Meritage may be a bit softer and rounder than some others, but there is no lack of depth, richness or intense cabernet flavor. Meritage is a name the Californians dreamed up to allow them to get around the rule that says any wine labeled cabernet sauvignon must contain 75 percent of that grape. By using the name Meritage, they can add cabernet franc, merlot or anything else in whatever proportions they choose to achieve the desired blend. Even when the blend contains more than 75 percent cabernet, a wine maker will use the Meritage name because it has come to be recognized as a winery's best.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); AUSTRALIA (71%); FRANCE (66%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OREGON; MCMINNVILLE (ORE) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); AUSTRALIA (71%); FRANCE (66%); OREGON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (90%); WINERIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (65%); AIRPORTS (54%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (50%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



119 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Europe Beyond the Franc

 BODY:
Europe's latest monetary breakdown is more embarrassment than crisis. But embarrassing it is, especially to the Eurocrats of Brussels who had vainly tried to decree a kind of financial unity before real coordination of national monetary policies had been achieved.
That stroke of hubris compelled European governments participating in the Community's Exchange Rate Mechanism to try to maintain their currencies within a narrow band of fluctuation while simultaneously trying to respond to the different economic conditions each faced at home. 
 Predictably, the Exchange Rate Mechanism plunged into crisis every time currency traders sensed that the economic prospects of member nations seriously diverged. A sudden showdown between the German mark, British pound and Italian lira badly dented the mechanism last fall.
Now a rift between Europe's two central currencies, the mark and the French franc, has forced Community governments to all but abandon their attempt to fix exchange rates in a narrow band. By allowing rates to fluctuate as much as 15 percent above or below their nominal levels, they have stepped back from their proclaimed goal of a common European currency before this decade's end.
The downward pressure on the franc this time didn't come from the usual culprit, inflation. In fact, France's current 2 percent rate is half that of Germany. But the same high French interest rates that kept inflation low also blocked recovery from a severe recession. Money traders reasoned that France would eventually have to lower those rates, while Germany seemed as determined as ever to keep its own interest rates high. Hence the flight from wobbly franc to firm mark.
One by one, the overambitious goals of the 1991 Maastricht treaty have had to be drastically scaled back or abandoned. The difficulty of achieving a common foreign and defense policy was exposed by the fumbling response to the Bosnian war. Now the premature dream of a common currency has been rudely set back.
But so what? The future of European integration has never depended on technical details and timetables. What counts is the political will to expand and deepen the Community. A series of referendums and parliamentary votes in all 12 member countries show that that will remains alive within the Community. And non-member states in Central and Eastern Europe continue to knock loudly at the Community's door.
Americans thus needn't worry about Europe breaking down under narrow nationalistic pressures. And in purely economic terms, the currency crackup could prove beneficial to the U.S., and Europe as well. With economies like the French now freer to stimulate their way out of recession, demand is likely to go up for both domestic and foreign products. That could help U.S. export sales. And more favorable exchange rates for European currencies will please American tourists.
Meanwhile, Europe will seek to put the Community on firmer foundations. A common currency, if it is really desired, can be achieved through gradual convergence of monetary and fiscal policies. Better foreign policy coordination can be learned from two years' worth of catastrophic mistakes in the Balkans. Even the arrogance of Eurocrats can be cured as ill-conceived schemes like the narrow-band Exchange Rate Mechanism come crashing down around their heads.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); RECESSION (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); REFERENDUMS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



120 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Real Jobless Rate

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The Federal Government will release its latest unemployment figures on Friday. But behind the official statistics is a truer picture -- a scarier picture -- of the nation's employment crisis.
Crowded into this picture are the millions of Americans (there are no precise totals) who have become discouraged and stopped looking for work, who are working part time but would like to work full time, who are working at jobs beneath their education or skill level, who are working at temporary jobs, who have set up some form of self-employment because they can't find other work, who are living on severance and savings and don't know what the future holds, who have retired prematurely, and on and on. 
 These are all people who would like to be gainfully employed but have been unable to land a good job.
Thomas J. Plewes, associate commissioner at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, explained that three "tests" must be passed before someone is officially considered unemployed: The person must be out of work, must be available for work and must have actively sought a job at some point in the last four weeks. There were 8.9 million people in this category in June, the latest month for which figures were available.
In addition, according to Mr. Plewes, the Government is aware of 1.2 million discouraged workers. Having thrown in the towel, they are not counted among the officially unemployed.
There are also 6.3 million partially employed people -- part-timers who would like to be full-timers. "That," said Mr. Plewes, "is a very large number at this stage of a recovery."
Another "very large" group comprises individuals working in jobs for which they are overqualified. This is a category that cannot be accurately measured. "It's very, very subjective," said Mr. Plewes.
In this group are many college graduates and professionals who once felt secure in their work. They are now doing all sorts of things -- painting houses, delivering pizzas, driving cabs -- to make ends meet.
Where jobs are available, there is a crush of applicants. M-G-M officials expect more than 100,000 applications for the 8,000 jobs at their new Grand Hotel and Theme Park in Las Vegas. Thousands of job seekers turned up in 100-degree heat on Monday night just to submit resumes.
The structure of employment in the U.S. is changing radically and workers are at a clear disadvantage. Millions of good jobs have vanished. Millions of workers are fearful and many are desperate. Job security is becoming a thing of the past. Workers in good jobs worry that they will not be in them for long.
The Harvard economist James Medoff, who did a study of "The New Unemployment," said, "No matter where you look, labor is hurting a great deal." He described the demand for workers as "weak."
In his paper Professor Medoff said: "Today's unemployment rate is roughly the same as it was at various points since 1976. However, until very recently, job availability, as measured by help wanted advertising, was much greater than it is today. The unemployment rate by itself cannot describe the ultimate vulnerability of American workers."
Not only are fewer jobs available, but the quality of the jobs has declined. Huge numbers of manufacturing jobs that provided relatively high wages and good benefits have been replaced over several years by service jobs that pay less and offer fewer or no benefits.
Now unemployed white-collar workers, jolted by the latest recession and its aftermath, are also walking down the path to the service-sector jobs.
Among the most vulnerable workers, according to Professor Medoff, are those who are middle-aged. In a report titled "Middle-Aged and Out-of-Work," he found that middle-aged Americans "were 45 percent more likely during the 1980's to be unemployed due to permanent layoff or job loss than was true during the 1970's," and are 55 percent more likely in the 1990's than in the 1970's.
Across the board the employment outlook is grim. Consumer confidence is weak, and when the employment picture comes into focus you wonder how it could be otherwise. It will be difficult for President Clinton or anyone else to bring about a strong economic recovery without addressing the fundamental problem of employment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: GHG (ASX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) AND MOTELS (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: GRAND HOTEL GROUP (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (97%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



121 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Concrete Walls Aren't Best for Floods

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Let's hope the city fathers get busy building a wall against the next time," you advise downtown Davenport, Iowa, in "The Power of Water" (editorial, July 26).
That's a 16-foot, concrete wall severing downtown Davenport from its baseball stadium, from LaClaire Park, from the gambling boat around which hope for economic stimulus revolves, and hiking-bicycling paths. 
 Flood walls also often don't work and contribute to flooding problems elsewhere by accelerating river flows. Within the Army Corps of Engineers, as well as among environmentalists, there is recognition that river manipulation needs rethinking.
You should advocate comprehensive, basinwide and long-term solutions to river flooding, with less emphasis on construction.
Taxpayer dollars can be better spent than in building Berlin walls in Iowa or elsewhere on urban riverfronts.
 
ANN BREEN, DICK RIGBY
Directors, Waterfront Center
Washington, July 28, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); 

CITY: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DAVENPORT (IOWA); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); MISSISSIPPI RIVER UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FLOODS; EDITORIALS RIVERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); BASEBALL (70%); HIKING (70%); FLOODS & FLOODING (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); ARMIES (53%); 

PERSON: BREEN, ANN; RIGBY, RICK

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



122 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: No Need for More Unemployed College Grads

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Workers of the World, Get Smart" by Secretary of Labor Robert B. Reich (Op-Ed, July 20) perpetuates the dangerous myth that demand for college-trained workers is limitless. Mr. Reich argues that if we can simply train enough workers with "problem-solving skills," we can have both high wages and high employment.
Yet America is suffering from too many college-educated workers. Unemployment of Ph.D.'s is high, college graduates are experiencing the worst prospects for landing college jobs, and the last recession witnessed large-scale white-collar layoffs. 
 The Labor Department's own Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that about 20 percent of college graduates work in occupations that do not require a college degree, such as secretary, retail sales clerk and factory production worker. Since the early 1970's, colleges and universities have poured out diplomas at a faster rate than the economy could absorb them. The percentage of graduates unable to land college jobs is expected to exceed 30 percent by the year 2005.
Mr. Reich bases his argument on two "clues": wages of college graduates have been rising relative to those of lesser-trained workers, and unemployment is less among college graduates. Yet this ignores the large numbers of college graduates unable to find work in their chosen professions who downgrade and displace lesser-trained workers. In the 1980's, a degree became preferred, if not required, for many jobs for police officers, farm managers and managers of convenience stores.
Mr. Reich presents this problem as afflicting all advanced industrial nations, yet only America has pursued a higher education policy that sends fully half of our youth to college.
Japanese and European societies limit the number of students who can attend college. In most European countries, including the former West Germany, less than half as many students have an opportunity to attend a university as in the United States. These countries, however, offer apprenticeship, technical and on-the-job training programs to those who do not go to college.
We cannot build dynamic apprenticeship programs if governmental policy makes it too easy to attend college. One-fifth of the country's state universities are required to accept any high school graduate who applies, yet Mr. Reich wants to make college even more accessible.
Improving work-force skills is no longer compatible with increasing access to college. Perpetuating myths about the demand for college graduates forestalls movement towards effective apprenticeship and job-training programs.
 
JIM BESSEN
Wallingford, Pa., July 22, 1993
 
The writer is founder of a software company, which he headed 1984-93.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); WRITERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); RETAILERS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); STATISTICS (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); CONVENIENCE STORES (68%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B (SEC); BESSEN, JIM

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



123 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: No Need for More Unemployed College Grads;
Misguided Policies

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Robert Reich's proposed solutions to unemployment in the United States and the industrialized economies (Op-Ed, July 20) miss the mark: Jobs are not being created and upgraded because of the costs Government imposes on the job creators in the private sector, particularly the small and medium-size businesses that create the majority of the jobs.
Government regulation and taxes create a wedge between what it costs a business to employ a worker and the net benefit a worker receives. Any increase in this wedge raises the cost of hiring new workers and reduces the net wages workers receive. In addition, overgenerous Government welfare and social benefit programs like those in Europe make nonwork more attractive than work. 
 The size of government -- and the accompanying tax, spending and regulatory burdens and disincentives -- has increased dramatically in the last three decades in all major industrialized countries. From the 1960's to the 1980's, the public sectors of the Group of Seven nations mushroomed from an average 32 percent to 43.5 percent of gross domestic product. Not coincidently, all of those countries experienced reduction in the rate of economic growth and job creation.
Mr. Reich complains about the decline in demand for less-educated and lower-skilled workers in industrial countries, yet he supports policies like indexing the minimum wage and raising payroll taxes to pay for job-retraining programs that would raise business costs and destroy entry-level positions for these workers.
The solution to unemployment is not increased Government spending on job training, but to reduce misguided policies that raise private sector costs.
 
CESAR V. CONDA
Executive Director
Alexis de Tocqueville Institution
Arlington, Va., July 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EMPLOYMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); TRENDS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B (SEC); CONDA, CESAR V

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



124 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: No Need for More Unemployed College Grads;
Who Is Protected

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Robert Reich (Op-Ed July 20) makes a distinction between the more and less educated segments of the American work force. His answer for less educated workers is to raise their education and skill levels.
A more useful distinction would be between those who are forced to compete against workers in the third world and those protected from such low-wage competition. 
 The tariffs or quotas that might protect blue-collar workers from imports produced by low-cost third world labor are usually the sort of "protection" that free traders like Mr. Reich attack. The professional restrictions and racism that protect physicians, lawyers, academics and other professionals from competing with equally skilled individuals from the third world are rarely noted by proponents of free trade.
It has taken years of arduous negotiations to create the sort of mobility of capital necessary to force United States auto workers into competition with workers in Mexico, Thailand and other low-wage havens. If similar negotiating efforts had been made at standardizing training and licensing requirements (and minimizing immigration restrictions), professionals in the United States would be earning salaries far more "competitive" with the third world than they do.
When promoting free trade, economists, politicians and journalists seem far more likely to notice the restrictions that protect the United Auto Workers than the American Medical Association or the American Bar Association.
 
DEAN BAKER
Washington, July 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (68%); IMMIGRATION (52%); 

PERSON: BAKER, DEAN; REICH, ROBERT B (SEC)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



125 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: No Need for More Unemployed College Grads;
Shorten the Workweek

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Strong Companies Are Joining Trend to Eliminate Jobs" (front page, July 26), on the increase in "part-time" jobs and elimination of "full-time" jobs, omits one element.
Those of us urged to do career planning at the dawning of the Age of Technology, as I did in a California junior high school, circa 1955, were told to map out and nourish leisure activities, the premise being that, as technology entered the workplace, work would require less time. 
 That leisure time has never appeared, largely because of the outdated concept that the 40-hour work week is the norm. Anything less than 40 hours a week consequently constitutes only "part-time" employment.
The notion of worker productivity must be redefined. Productivity is adjusted by cramming into each worker's 40 hours as much as body and mind will bear. The results are noticeable in, for example, the United States Post Office, where worker dissatisfaction has led to violence.
Neither business nor politics has considered what social impact might be achieved were the time saved by technology made "productive" by diverting worker time and energy into pursuits beyond the workplace.
The arbitrary distinctions that govern full- and part-time jobs must be eliminated. There are clear -- but artificial -- lines drawn: above the threshold, the worker is entitled to full benefits; below the line, nothing. Eliminating the rigidity by which benefits are given or denied would eliminate the incentive to business to create low-paying, part-time employment at the expense of gratifying, economically productive work.
Reducing the normal work week to 40 hours helped restore the economy during the Depression of the 1930's. We need such rethinking and redefinition today.
 
STEPHEN E. PHILLIPS
Brooklyn, July 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) WORK WEEK (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); WORKPLACE MORALE (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); 

PERSON: PHILLIPS, STEPHEN E

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



126 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
NORTHEAST UTILITIES TO REDUCE ITS WORK FORCE

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Citing the need to control costs because of competitive pressures and a recession in New England, Northeast Utilities said it would cut its work force between 6 percent and 7 percent by the end of 1994. That would reduce employment at the region's largest electric utility by 600 to 700 from the current 10,000 employees. 
 Northeast Utilities, based in Hartford, said it hoped to achieve the reduction by offering voluntary early retirement but would lay off employees if necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NU (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST UTILITIES NORTHEAST UTILITIES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST UTILITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ENGLAND STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (85%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (85%); EARLY RETIREMENT (83%); PERSONAL FINANCE (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



127 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: The Senate;
Budget Opposition Brings Senator to Center Stage

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3

 BODY:
Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey has rarely taken center stage in the United States Senate. But he put himself squarely there today by announcing that he would again vote against President Clinton's deficit-reduction plan.
Mr. Lautenberg's announcement came in a spare, eight-line press release that called the budget plan unfair to the middle class. Although he has long been identified as a loyal, if not predictable liberal Democrat, his decision came as no surprise. What was surprising was that the White House did not fight harder for his vote. 
 After all, the New Jersey Senator is running for re-election next year in a state still reeling from a 1990 revolt against state tax increases that almost brought down Senator Bill Bradley.
 
Wincing at Criticism
 Senate Democratic leaders wrote Mr. Lautenberg off days ago, if not weeks ago, and they are still wincing at his harsh criticism of the President's plan when it first squeaked through the Senate in June.
Mr. Lautenberg was one of six Democrats to vote with the Republicans against the President then, forcing Vice President Al Gore to cast a tie-breaking vote.
Now that Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma has joined the ranks of Democratic opponents, the Administration is looking for a way to persuade one of the original Democrats who voted against the plan to change his mind.
Today's announcement closed the door to any possibility that Mr. Lautenberg would be the one to help the President on the most crucial vote the Democratic Party has faced in years.
As for Mr. Lautenberg, he called his decision today "a biggie," but no more fateful than his votes opposing the use of military force in the Persian Gulf or in favor of the 1990 budget agreement.
 
'Laborious' Decision
 "I came to this decision very laboriously," he said. "I had calls from the White House. I sat with the President. I hate to vote against the President's program, but I don't consider this a disloyal act. It's unpleasant because we have gotten calls that number in the thousands. Some are threats, like: 'I'll never vote for you again.' "
The New Jerseyan described the pressure he came under from the Administration as modest, mostly coming in the form of encouraging his local supporters to write and call him.
There were no last-minute White House threats to encourage a primary opponent and no hard-nosed calls to Mr. Lautenberg's contributors or political consultants -- none of the things past administrations have done when the time came to shove all their chips into the pot.
But the Administration played a little hardball two weeks ago, when President Clinton and other senior officials gave an exclusive briefing to New York and New Jersey reporters stressing the benefits of the budget plan for the metropolitan area.
 
Facing the Electorate
 Obviously referring to Mr. Lautenberg and other recalcitrant Democrats, Lloyd Bentsen, the Treasury Secretary, said: "How do you think they would like to go back to the electorate if this thing fails and has their name on that? To have seen interest rates start to go up again and the stock market start to go down? The electorate would hold them responsible for that."
The officials went on to say that the budget plan, if passed, would bring New Jersey 96,000 jobs by 1996.
Mr. Lautenberg privately complained to the White House that he did not appreciate the thinly veiled slam at his election prospects.
And today, he questioned their job figures, but politely: "I'm not sure they have a basis for their projection."
"My mission here is not primarily to support the President," he said. "If the bill goes down, another bill will be written."
 
Ribbing From Other Senators
 Among the unpleasant consequences of his stance is the critical whispering among Senate Democrats who think Mr. Lautenberg's opposition reflects more devotion to his own political interests than to those of the President or their party.
Acknowledging the heat from his colleagues, Mr. Lautenberg said: " 'Don't you see this as good for the country?' they ask. And I say: 'No, you're wrong. You need more deficit reduction.' "
The Senate is usually a genteel, subdued place, like an exclusive club. And as a self-made millionaire among millionaires, the 69-year-old Senator normally glides through his workday with little fanfare.
But in the minutes after his announcement, his colleagues made him the center of attention, giving him a relentless ribbing as he commuted from the Senate floor to his office in the Hart building on the Senate subway.
In an elevator, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, perhaps the most hard-line Democratic opponent to the Clinton economic program, slapped Mr. Lautenberg on the back and said, "They say you're leaning straight up!" Senator John Glenn of Ohio, a Clinton supporter, chimed in: "Frank says some of my people are for it, and some of my people are against it, and I'm for my people."
In a separate interview, Mr. Bradley said that while he disagreed with Mr. Lautenberg, "As a colleague, you have to respect another person's decision." He added that it was "hard to tell" whether Mr. Lautenberg's vote would hurt or help his re-election bid.
 
'New Jersey First'
 Mr. Lautenberg came to the Senate a decade ago promising to put "New Jersey first," and he hopes his vote against his party's President will make that point. But he insisted that politics were not behind his decision, since no one can tell how the people of New Jersey will view his decision in 1994.
Saying that he had received "more phone calls to vote for it than against it," he added, "The politics are yet to be determined."
Still, he said that in "a state that is taxed so highly and gets such little return" he could not justify voting for $250 billion in tax increases over five years without a long list of changes in the program, including the elimination of the space station, the supercollider and subsidies for miners and ranchers.
Mr. Lautenberg's probable Republican opponent next year is Representative Dick Zimmer, a leading opponent of the space station, who has cast himself as a tight-fisted fiscal conservative.
 
Unaccustomed Cloak
 Whatever role politics played in his decision, Mr. Lautenberg has taken on the unaccustomed cloak of deficit hawk in recent months.
He led a successful fight against $1.2 billion in military spending promoted by Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee. Then he backed a Republican-sponsored amendment to penalize states that do not make a serious effort at putting able-bodied welfare recipients to work.
Mr. Lautenberg predicted that the Administration would still pass its budget without his support.
By concentrating on transportation, toxic wastes and other state issues that receive little national attention, Mr. Lautenberg has taken a back seat to other New Jersey politicians like Mr. Bradley and Gov. Jim Florio. But he has repeatedly beaten the odds, since he transformed a three-man business into Automatic Data Processing, now a world leader in computer services.
Until his 1982 election to the Senate, the Brooklyn-born Mr. Lautenberg was best known in political circles for his inclusion on President Richard M. Nixon's enemies list for making a $90,000 contribution to George McGovern's 1972 campaign.
 
Prime G.O.P. Target
 Few expected him to defeat Representative Millicent Fenwick, a witty, irreverent Republican, in his first Senate race.
But he managed to paint her as a heroine of the monied classes, even though he spent $4 million of his own money on his campaign. In the Senate, he made few headlines, and he was a prime target of national Republicans six years later.
Mr. Lautenberg was denigrated throughout the 1988 campaign as "a junior Senator" by his Republican opponent, Pete Dawkins, a Heisman Trophy winner at West Point with a golden resume. But Mr. Dawkins ran a poor campaign, which was unable to overcome news reports that highlighted the idea that he was a carpetbagger who searched for a state in which to run.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 1993, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about Senator Frank R. Lautenberg's opposition to the budget bill misstated his place of birth. It was Paterson, N.J., not Brooklyn. The article also misstated Mr. Lautenberg's vote on the budget agreement of 1990. He voted against it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey has officially joined the ranks of Democratic opponents of the President's deficit-reduction plan. He talked yesterday with Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, left, in a crowded hallway outside the Democratic Caucus. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); 

PERSON: LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD FRANK LAUTENBERG (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



128 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Deal Made to Save New York Hospital Surcharge

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
Congressional budget negotiators have agreed on the broad outlines of a plan intended to preserve New York State's fragile hospital reimbursement system for two more years.
The rate system, which allows the state to charge some hospital patients more to subsidize the care of others, has been under legal attack by insurance companies and labor unions. 
 While not disclosing details of the agreement, Congressional leaders said the plan would protect New York's system of surcharges on many hospital bills.
In February a Federal judge in Manhattan said key elements of the system violated Federal law, a ruling that state officials said could bring the entire system crashing down if upheld on appeal.
 
$160 Million at Issue
 A collapse of the rate system would cost hospitals $160 million a year in revenue and jeopardize the state's ability to provide health care to two million people who lack insurance, many of them working poor and immigrants.
But the agreement reached on Monday by negotiators from the House Ways and Means Committee and Senate Finance Committee would keep the rate system standing even if the state loses the case on appeal, state officials said.
The agreement, which is part of a five-year budget plan, must still be approved by the full House and Senate.
"This is one we very badly needed," said Sandra Cuneo, Washington counsel to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. "Had we not received it, our entire hospital reimbursement system could have been thrown into chaos."
At stake are complex regulations intended to help nonprofit insurers like Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield to compete with commercial insurers and to provide health care to people who cannot afford insurance but are not poor enough to qualify for Medicare.
Under those rules, the state adds a charge to hospital bills for those covered by some for-profit insurers and health maintenance organizations. Of this surcharge, $160 million goes to hospitals and $90 million to the state's general revenue fund.
Because the nonprofit insurers are exempt from the surcharge, which is 24 percent, they are theoretically able to keep their rates competitive with commercial insurers.
Another surcharge of 5.5 percent, which is tacked on to most hospital bills, including those of people who are insured by nonprofits, raises $1.1 billion a year to subsidize health care for people without insurance.
 
Insurers and Unions Sue
 In separate lawsuits, a coalition of commercial insurers and a group of labor unions have challenged the surcharges, saying they violate the Federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, known as Erisa.
Under the law, employee contributions to health benefit funds may be used for the "sole and exclusive benefit" of the workers and their families.
In a ruling on the case brought by the insurers, Judge Louis J. Freeh of Federal District Court in Manhattan said in February that the surcharges used employees' money for purposes unrelated to their health care, unfairly driving up their insurance costs.
That case is now on appeal. The suit brought by the labor unions is pending in Federal District Court in Brooklyn.
Representatives for the unions and the commercial insurers could not be reached for comment tonight.
Although details of the Congressional plan were still being worked out tonight, state officials and Congressional aides said the plan will change the Federal tax code to create incentives for commercial health insurers and health maintenance organizations to continue paying New York State's surcharges.
Under the plan, contributions to health plans in New York State would be tax-deductible only if those plans pay the surcharges, Congressional aides said. As a result, even if the reimbursement system is struck down, companies and individuals would be likely to continue paying the surcharges because it would be economically beneficial, the aides said.
"This provides a very important stabilization factor," said Kenneth Raske, president of Greater New York Hospital Association.
But the changes to the tax code would remain in effect only into 1995, thereby putting pressure on the state to make its reimbursement system less onerous to unions and commercial insurers and their customers. That would also give the Federal Government time to create a national health care policy that could dramatically change the state's hospital reimbursement system.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 1993, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 4 about New York state's hospital reimbursement system misidentified Medicare. It is the Federal program that provides health care for the elderly; Medicaid is the combined Federal, state and local program that provides health care for the poor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOSPITALS; HEALTH INSURANCE US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); JUDGES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993



129 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: The Overview;
Clinton Finds a Convert on the Budget

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
One of the seven Senate Democrats who have opposed President Clinton's $500 billion budget package changed his mind today, converting a shaky bet that the package will squeeze through the Senate on Friday into something close to an odds-on favorite.
Close, but not absolute. Today's decision by Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona to support the measure places 49 Democratic senators solidly behind the package, and there are strong hopes in the White House that one past Democratic supporter -- Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska -- will not decide to break ranks. 
 Mr. Kerrey said again today that he had not decided whether to keep supporting the package, which he says contains too few cuts in Federal spending. But Democratic leaders in Congress and the White House expressed growing confidence in his vote.
Those 50 votes, plus the tie-breaking one cast by Vice President Al Gore, would give the President a one-vote margin of victory in the Senate.
 
Explaining Change of Mind
 In announcing his switch, Mr. Deconcini said he had acted because the alternative -- less deficit reduction and a compromise with a Republican Party that he said was committed to Mr. Clinton's defeat -- was unacceptable.
"I was not sent here to be a part of gridlock," he said at an afternoon news conference. "I was not sent here to collect a paycheck or sent here for a job to take care of myself and my retirement. I was sent here to reduce the deficit in my last election, and I'll continue to work for that. And that's what's driving me to it."
But Mr. DeConcini also walked away from today's announcement with several gifts from Democratic leaders, including changes in provisions for Social Security and deficit reduction, and those are certain to help him in a potentially difficult re-election campaign next year.
The White House's political situation appeared dire until Mr. DeConcini made his move. The Senate passed its version of Mr. Clinton's budget package in June by a single vote, and over the opposition of six Democrats. Even that margin vanished on Sunday when a past supporter of the President, Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma, declared his opposition, touching off a scramble by the Administration to flip one of the Democratic foes to friend.
 
Erosion in the House
 While Mr. DeConcini has been won over, the White House today refused to declare the Senate battle won.
"I don't think anyone's going to crack a beer and go home," Mr. Clinton's spokeswoman, Dee Dee Myers, said this afternoon.
Even more reason for that could be found in the House, which will vote on the package first, probably on Thursday. There, leading Democrats said they detected a small but steady erosion of conservative support for the measure. So far, that has been offset by other conservatives who have jumped aboard the package, but whether that trend can continue is uncertain.
"The perception is that we're there," said Representative Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a member of the House leadership, "but we've got a few votes to go. We'll get there, but it'll be tight."
 
Republicans Continue Attack
 Republicans criticized the package again today, particularly a clause that applies the higher personal income tax to all money earned this year, even though the increase is just now being considered.
"Increasing taxes is bad enough, but increasing taxes retroactively is a terrible precedent," said Senator Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho.
Mr. Clinton responded to his critics in a speech to the National Urban League, saying: "So much misinformation has been put out. As soon as this bill passes, we will clear away the murky fog of misinformation, and reality will take over."
The White House must also cope with the beginnings of what is sure to be furious lobbying against the measure in the next two days. A coalition of scores of business groups, led by the National Federation of Independent Business and the United States Chamber of Commerce, announced today that it opposed the package.
The groups said the package, which includes $250 billion in new or increased taxes and $250 billion in spending reductions, has too many taxes on business and too few guaranteed cuts in spending. But they offered no specific alternative and presented few uncontested statistics to support their claim that the package would bring the economy and small-business job growth to a screeching halt.
But Mr. DeConcini's announcement, capping a day of unconcealed nail-biting, fueled the impression that Mr. Clinton's supporters were at last picking up steam.
Mr. DeConcini had been virtually mute on his intentions toward the bill. Not even the President knew what he would do until the chief White House lobbyist, Howard Paster, took a call from the Senator a few minutes before his news conference.
Asked what led Mr. Deconcini to drop his opposition, one senior Administration official said, "Sweet reason."
Mr. DeConcini described his internal debate in almost anguished terms. "I have labored with that act for some time now," he said. "I've worked on it. I've dissected it. I've pulled it apart. I've put the pieces back together."
Mr. Clinton and his subordinates wooed the Senator for two weeks, publicly and shamelessly. Mr. DeConcini visited the White House twice, including a 15-minute chat today, and was the recipient of several Presidential telephone calls. On Tuesday, Mr. Clinton singled him out for praise in a nationally televised prime-time speech.
Today, the President escorted Mr. DeConcini before cameras in the Oval Office to witness the signing of an executive order on deficit reduction, an order tailored to allay the Senator's stated fear that the budget package would not dent the rising Federal debt.
The White House has also pelted Mr. DeConcini with visits by big names: Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, a fellow Arizonan; Secretary of State Warren Christopher, and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, who talked at length with Mr. DeConcini today and, one Administration official said, parted without any firm commitment.
The official said that "Bentsen was talking real turkey with him" but that on parting Mr. DeConcini had only said, "Trust me, Lloyd."
 
Lowering Tax Liability
 If public bouquets helped, so did the candy borne by friends in the White House and the Senate, as Mr. DeConcini won at least two major concessions from budget negotiators.
The first was an agreement to raise the income threshold at which retirees will pay taxes on an greater portion of their Social Security benefits. In the Senate version of the bill, the threshold was $32,000 for individuals and $40,000 for couples; the negotiators made it $34,000 and $44,000. The change deprived negotiators of about $2 billion in anticipated tax revenues through 1998, which had to be made up elsewhere in the package.
Mr. Clinton himself delivered the second gift, two executive orders that he signed today. The first establishes a Federal fund -- an accounting device, really -- that will hold in trust all the revenues from new taxes in the budget package. It requires that those revenues be spent only to reduce the annual Federal deficit; Mr. Clinton's package contemplates that anyway, and, in effect, the order merely puts into writing a pledge to adhere to the package plan.
Many analysts, including the General Accounting Office, call the trust fund a gimmick, but Mr. DeConcini said he disagreed. "It's a new, innovative approach," he said. "It's never been done before. The American public, I believe, is prepared to pay more taxes, to make more sacrifices if they truly, truly believe, that it's going to go to deficit reduction. This guarantees that."
Mr. Clinton's second order requires the White House to report annually on whether spending on Federal benefits programs has exceeded the forecast and to state what the President intends to do about it, if anything. Lawmakers would then have to adopt his recommendation or approve some better alternative.
 
Down to the Line
 The order is an effort to prevent the explosive growth of benefits programs from gobbling up the increases in tax revenues, as happened after the last deficit-cutting accord, in 1990. But lawmakers, and the President, would still have the option of doing nothing to redress the imbalance by cutting spending somewhere. The real impact of the order is to force a public vote on spending, something Congress has been loathe to do.
Mr. DeConcini said he made his decision on the budget package between his private meeting with Mr. Clinton at noon and about 3 P.M., when he asked an aide to call a press conference.
"It's not a light switch," he said in an interview later. "It's like, 'When did you finally decide to ask your best girlfriend to marry you.' "
The President took him aside at their meeting, Mr. DeConcini said, and told him, "'I sure hope you can come around"' and 'I'm glad you pushed us into this," referring to the deficit-reduction fund.
Mr. DeConcini said he then told Mr. Clinton, "I'll have to let you know."
He added in the interview, "It's hard to say no to the President."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton with Senator Dennis DeConcini yesterday after signing an executive order on deficit reduction. A few hours later, Mr. DeConcini declared his support for the President's budget plan. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Leon E. Panetta, the budget director, speaking at a briefing on the budget yesterday at the White House. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (59%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (59%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; DECONCINI, DENNIS (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



130 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: Income Taxes;
Tax Bill Would Let Wealthy Stretch Out Their '93 Payments

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
The wealthy taxpayers most affected by the new tax increase in the Clinton budget package will not feel the full effect immediately because the Administration has agreed to allow them to spread their payments of 1993 taxes over two extra years.
In effect, they will be getting a two-year loan at no interest. And for the wealthiest the loans could amount to tens of thousands of dollars. 
 The plan, designed to defuse complaints that the tax increase will apply retroactively to all income earned this year, was agreed to by Congressional tax conferees today. It would let taxpayers defer most of the tax increase on 1993 earnings by paying it in three annual installments beginning next April 15, without the penalty or interest charges usually assessed on late payments.
 
Could Cost $300 Million
 Allowing taxpayers to defer some payments will cost the Treasury about $300 million in 1994 and 1995, Administration officials said. Tax experts calculated that the deferral would amount to just a quarter of a percent of the total collected from tax increases.
Administration officials insisted that the idea had been under discussion for weeks, and was not a last-minute concession brought on by the condemnation of retroactive taxes that the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, made in a televised speech after President Clinton's television address on Tuesday night.
But they did not offer a public explanation as to why the proposal had not been mentioned publicly until today.
A senior White House official said that President Clinton had given his approval to the plan on Tuesday afternoon in part to blunt criticism from those who opposed the tax increase's being made retroactive. The official said the proposal was too small to merit mention in Mr. Clinton's television address and had won final approval from Congressional conferees only this morning.
Senator Dole escalated his attack today, noting acerbicly that even the draft constitution approved by the Russian Federation last month ruled out retroactive tax increases. Representative Wayne T. Gilchrest, Republican of Maryland, went a step further and proposed a constitutional amendment to the same effect for the United States.
Senator Dole called the retroactive tax increase "unprecedented," but Treasury Department officials listed more than a dozen examples in which taxes had been imposed retroactively.
In fact, it had been assumed by most tax experts since before the Administration took office that any income tax increases would be retroactive, although for a time legislators had considered phasing in the increases by adopting one rate increase for this year and another for next year.
Many taxpayers long ago acted on the assumption that increase would be retroactive and took the widespread advice of tax accountants to declare as much income as possible for 1992 rather than 1993, or to shift investments into tax-free instruments at the start of this year.
Tax lawyers and accountants who have been following the deliberations closely said that they were caught completely off guard by the idea of letting taxpayers defer some of this year's tax increase and that they assumed it was a last-minute response to the Republican criticism.
 
Long Discussion Cited
 The provision allowing the deferred payments, which tax experts in Congress spent today drafting, would markedly ease the burden on people who otherwise would have to come up with thousands of dollars to pay 1993 income taxes before next April 15, while the amount being withheld for next year's taxes would simultaneously increase.
Although the decision was not disclosed until today, Leslie B. Samuels, the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for tax policy, said that it was made on Tuesday before President Clinton's televised speech supporting the tax bill.
Mr. Samuels said that the matter had been under discussion for weeks and that the Internal Revenue Service had already explained how it could be implemented. He said the likely political repercussions of the move had been considered in making the decision, as had the economic effects of making taxpayers liable for 1993 tax increases.
Mr. Samuels also said the tax bill signed by President Ronald Reagan on Sept. 3, 1982, had increased the taxes of people who had received unemployment benefits earlier in the year. The tax on the unemployed, he said, was imposed retroactively to Jan. 1, which he said should be recalled by Senator Dole, who was chairman of the Senate Finance Committee at the time.
The plan to defer taxes would apply only to 1993 income tax increases caused by the proposed new law, not to 1994 tax increases or tax liabilities that would have existed without a change in law.
Because the deferral applies only to the increase, the decision will also mean that the tax instruction books sent to all taxpayers next year will give them the tables and formulas needed to calculate exactly how much their taxes were increased. That is something that politicians normally do not want to remind people about it with hard, cruel numbers.
Most tax increases would be paid by people earning more than $200,000 a year, and many of them are not being hit hard enough to make them want to defer the payments.
A family of four with adjusted gross income of $200,000 and itemized deductions of $30,000 would pay $45,348 in income taxes under the new law, $1,308 more than under the old law, according to an analysis by Deloitte & Touche, a major accounting firm.
The deferral provision would allow the family to pay $436 of the increase on April 15, making the rest of the payments in equal installments one year and two years later.
Unlike most instances when taxpayers are late with their payments, these would not be subject to the interest charges assessed at market interest rates prevailing at the time.
If a family of four had income of $500,000 and itemized deductions of $70,000, its income tax liability would rise by $21,990 under the new law. Deferring two-thirds of that, or more than $14,000, would make a lot of sense. The money, for example, could be used to buy a new car, with the loan effectively coming from the I.R.S. without interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); ACCOUNTING (60%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); WAYNE T GILCHREST (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



131 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: News Analysis -- Beyond the Superlatives;
Clinton-Dole Jousting Over Budget Bill Shows How Assertions Can Mask Truth

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
On television Tuesday night, President Clinton called the budget legislation now before Congress "the largest deficit reduction in history."
Not to be outdone, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, went on the air a few minutes later to say that the measure was actually "the largest tax increase in world history." 
 Between the two of them, more claims and counterclaims were made Tuesday night than were staked out in the Oklahoma land rush, and some of them were just as suspect.
This is an attempt to sort some of them out.
When the dollars are adjusted for inflation, this year's budget bill is neither the biggest deficit reduction measure nor the biggest tax increase in recent years.
Over five years, in 1993 dollars, the bill would lower the annual deficits by a total of $496 billion. Of that, $241 billion would come from tax increases.
The budget agreement that Democrats in Congress developed and George Bush signed in 1990 contained $482 billion in deficit reduction -- higher taxes and lower spending. Adjusted for inflation, that plan, some of which is still in effect, was worth $532 billion in 1993 dollars.
As for taxes, the 1982 law enacted under Ronald Reagan raised taxes by $215 billion over five years, which amounts to $286 billion in 1993 dollars, considerably more than this year's figure.
Senator Dole was simply wrong when he said, "Never before in American history has the Government increased tax rates retroactively."
The Treasury put out a list today of 13 such rate increases since 1917, the most notable of which was Lyndon B. Johnson's surtax, imposed in 1968, to help pay for the Vietnam War. The law was passed on Oct. 22, and the tax was retroactive to Jan. 1 for corporations and April 1 for individuals.
 
Retroactivity Is Common
 A law enacted in October 1976 raised the minimum tax rate for those who claim many tax deductions and other breaks to 15 percent from 10 percent effective the previous Jan. 1. The constitutionality of this retroactive rate increase was upheld by the Supreme Court.
In fact, it is commonplace for changes in the tax law to be retroactive, and this year's budget bill contains 14 retroactive tax breaks, according to the Senate Finance Committee staff.
Mr. Clinton's statement, repeated twice, that there would be no income tax increase on working families earning less than $180,000 is not precisely correct.
Income taxes for couples would be raised on taxable income of over $140,000. Taxable income is what is left after deductions and personal exemptions are subtracted from adjusted gross income. As a rule of thumb, a couple with a taxable income of $140,000 probably has a total income of about $180,000. But some surely have an income below that, accountants say.
 
On 'Working Families'
 Moreover, it was only the careful use of the words "working families" that made Mr. Clinton's assertion even remotely correct.
More than five million retirees with annual incomes as low as $34,000 (counting half their Social Security benefits) would see their income taxes increase because they would be taxed on up to 85 percent of their Social Security payments, from 50 percent.
And even the term "working families" does not cover the thousands of cases in which one spouse works and the other is retired or disabled and receives Social Security benefits.
Still, Mr. Clinton was accurate, according to most official and private estimates, when he asserted that 80 percent of the higher taxes would be paid by taxpayers with incomes above $200,000 and 90 percent by those with incomes above $100,000.
 
On Deficit and Debt
 Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole agree that the national debt, the accumulation of all annual deficits over the years, would grow by $1 trillion in the next five years even if the Clinton plan becomes law. If the plan does not become law, it would grow by $1.5 trillion.
Mr. Clinton's statement that with his plan in place, the economy would create eight million new jobs over the next four years is in line with the forecasts of most public and private economists. They also say that roughly this many jobs would be created without the plan. The fact is that in the short term, tax increases and spending cuts are not conducive to job creation.
Before the plan was announced, the Congressional Budget Office projected about nine million new jobs over the next four years. Senator Dole seized on the budget office's January forecast and contended that the Clinton plan would actually cost more than a million jobs. But budget office officials say that is a misinterpretation of the data.
Mr. Clinton is relying on the average of three private forecasts that were made more recently than the budget office projections.
 
What Businesses Want
 Mr. Dole's statement that 800,000 small businesses would owe higher taxes was probably true, but it lacked perspective. The business owners who would see their taxes increase represent less than 4 percent of the 21 million taxpayers who report business income. Many more small businesses would see their taxes cut than would see them raised under the legislation.
But Mr. Clinton's assertion that many small business organizations, including the National Association of the Self Employed and the National Venture Capital Association, were backing his plan also needed perspective.
Most business groups, including the National Federation of Independent Businessmen, the largest association of small businesses, oppose the legislation.
And when Mr. Dole said that 80 percent of the spending reductions in the bill would come after the 1996 election, he was making a good point but exaggerating the numbers.
Most of the spending cuts in the five-year plan would indeed come in the fiscal year 1997, which begins Oct. 1, 1996, or in the fiscal year 1998. But the proportion of spending cuts is 61 percent in the last two years if lower interest payments are counted as a spending reduction and 53 percent if they are not, Senate Budget Committee calculations show.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole agree that if the plan is enacted, deficits will skyrocket after the 1997 fiscal year. They just put the point differently.
Mr. Dole presented it to argue that the Clinton plan would be ineffective. Mr. Clinton used it to show how important it was to bring medical costs under control in a new national health program.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Deficit Analysis" shows benefits of the new budget, as projected by the Senate Budget Committee, and total debt increase over five years. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (95%); LEGISLATION (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HISTORY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); FAMILY (64%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



132 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Japan Ends 38 Years of Liberal Democrat Rule

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Aug. 5

 BODY:
Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa formally ended 38 years of Liberal Democratic Party rule over Japan this morning when, as expected, he and his Cabinet resigned in advance of the opening of a special session of Parliament to elect his successor.
Parliament is to convene this afternoon and will probably elect Morihiro Hosokawa, the head of a coalition of seven opposition parties, as Prime Minister, another step in the whirlwind of change that has altered Japanese politics over the past two months. The Liberal Democrats lost their majority in last month's elections. 
 Mr. Miyazawa, 73, and his 20-member Cabinet were merely following the constitutional provision that requires the Government to resign at the opening of Parliament after an election.
But the routine event had historical weight: A non-Liberal Democrat will be forming a government for the first time since the party was formed in 1955, with United States backing, as a bulwark against Communism.
Whether Mr. Hosokawa will be able to announce his cabinet is uncertain. As of this morning, the coalition members were said to be still negotiating the distribution of cabinet posts. They have reportedly agreed to elect Takako Doi, a Socialist, as the first woman to become Speaker of the lower house, a symbolic but highly visible post.
In addition, Mr. Hosokawa has said he will name several experts who are not members of Parliament to some key posts. There have been rumors that he has offered the Foreign Ministry to Akio Morita, the chairman of the Sony Corporation, who has written for years of Japan's need both to resist some of Washington's more insistent trade demands and to break down the fortress mentality that has kept Japan's markets closed.
At the heart of the coalition taking power are several dozen Liberal Democratic Party defectors, including Mr. Hosokawa. Though they now oppose their one-time mentors and colleagues, these politicians remain conservative on most issues and thus they are not expected to begin any major policy shifts, at least in the short-term.
But they represent a new generation eager to put the rigid political and economic structures of the cold war behind them and, not least, to clean up politics after five years of corruption scandals.
Several dozen Liberal Democrats bolted after Mr. Miyazawa failed to fulfill a promise to pass legislation that would reform the electoral system. They forced a no-confidence vote, which Mr. Miyazawa lost, and then the election. After forming several parties, these defectors helped forge the new coalition.
The first order of business, Mr. Hosokawa and his backers have said, will be to pass the electoral reform, creating new electoral districts and banning corporate political donations, as the coalition has promised.
In addition, the group is expected to offer spending increases and tax cuts to stimulate the economy, which is struggling to lift itself from nearly two years of recession.
If the coalition can hold on to power, which remains highly uncertain, it is expected over time to push for policies that shift the Government's focus from supporting major corporations to looking after the interests of consumers. It has also promised to deregulate the economy and to decentralize power for economic and other decisions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (66%); SNE (NYSE) (66%); 6758 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); COLD WAR (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); SCANDALS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: MIYAZAWA, KIICHI (PRIME MIN); STERNGOLD, JAMES KIICHI MIYAZAWA (92%); MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (73%); TAKAKO DOI (55%); AKIO MORITA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



133 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Neither flood nor rain nor searing drought is choking off the nation's modest economic recovery. The 12 Federal Reserve banks reported that economic activity in most districts continued to grow "slowly to moderately" in June and the first half of July. [Page D1.]
The decision by Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona to support President Clinton's budget turns a shaky bet that the package will pass the Senate into something close to a lock. [A1.] 
 To head off objections to retroactive tax increases on the wealthy, the tax bill's authors are letting wealthy taxpayers pay the increases in installments over two years. [A1.]
Administrative costs account for one of every four dollars spent on hospital care, the highest proportion yet measured, a study in the New England Journal of Medicine says. [A14.]
 
International
Quietly, very quietly, Washington is acknowledging that Europe's currency crisis may turn out to be a blessing in disguise for struggling economies, notably the United States'. [D1.]
 
Companies
Merck's planned acquisition of Medco Containment Services signals a new phase of consolidation in the highly fragmented and specialized drug industry. [D1.]
Stunned by a Federal commission's elimination of many tariffs on imported steel, American steelmakers have begun a broad campaign to reverse the decision. [D1.]
Kmart said it may sell its Pay Less Drug Stores Northwest chain to increase value for its shareholders. [D1.]
Sales of domestically built vehicles rose 6.9 percent in late July, as demand in some instances outstripped supply. [D4.]
A Michigan appeals court reversed a lower court ruling that had kept G.M. from closing its Willow Run assembly plant. [D4.]
Volkswagen said its supervisory board would meet on Friday to discuss its trade-secrets fight with General Motors. [D4.]
Bell Atlantic is taking a stake in a company that would offer up to 100 television channels to users with a special antenna. [D4.]
Microsoft will buy some assets of Continuum Productions, which is owned by Microsoft's chairman, William H. Gates 3d. [D5.]
The new president of a Federated Department Stores unit is one of retailing's few female senior executives. [D5.]
Times Mirror will provide news, advertising and interactive services through the electronic network of Prodigy Services. [D20.]
 
Markets
As traders focused on the coming budget votes in Congress, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.22 points to 3,552.05. But the Nasdaq composite rose to 713.79, setting a record. [D8.]
Should the long bond rally if Congress approves the deficit-reduction plan, it probably won't be for the reasons President Clinton has cited. [D16.]
Gold and silver prices retrenched further from their recent run-up fueled by the European currency turmoil. [D19.]
The dollar rose as a cut in a German interest rate spurred selling of the mark. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
To truly reduce the budget deficit, two economists suggest, force individuals and corporations to save more. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Despite settling charges of child labor law violations, Food Lion still has problems. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D8.]
Coca-Cola's latest jingle was written by a trio that had never handled a commercial account. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (55%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PAY LESS DRUG STORES NORTHWEST INC (67%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (55%); MACY'S INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); BONDS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); SILVER MARKETS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); GOLD MARKETS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (65%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (65%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); BILL GATES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



134 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Fed Finds Slow Pace Of Growth

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Neither flood nor rain nor searing drought is choking off the nation's modest economic recovery, even though they have been devastating to the Midwest and the South.
The 12 Federal Reserve Banks reported today that economic activity in most districts, including the Midwest, continued to expand "slowly to moderately" in June and the first half of July. 
 "The effects of flooding were said to be highly concentrated and were not seen to threaten overall economic expansion," the Federal Reserve said in its latest survey of regional economic conditions, a report known as the beige book.
The Federal Reserve's latest appraisal of economic conditions was based on surveys of farmers, bankers and business executives conducted before July 27. The Federal Reserve Banks assess economic conditions and price trends before the Fed's monetary policy meetings, which are held roughly every six weeks. The next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which decides whether to raise or lower short-term interest rates, is scheduled for Aug. 16 and 17.
 
 
Price Pressures Mixed
 The Federal Reserve's chairman, Alan Greenspan, has been watching for signs that prices are starting to rise faster as the economy keeps growing, which could lead the Fed to raise rates to check inflation. But the report today found that price pressures were mixed.
Although there are fears that food prices will rise later this year, the Fed's assessment of the nation's agriculture sector is surprisingly upbeat. "Agricultural conditions were said to be generally favorable, although flooding and drought have destroyed crops in several districts," the Fed said.
But the flooding has spread since the Fed made its assessment, and crop damage may well turn out to be more significant than what the Fed found a week ago.
"It's worsened in our area in the past 10 days since the beige book was put together," said Glenn Miller, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Mo. "More land is under water. The rains and wet weather have slowed the wheat harvest down a lot. The losses are even bigger now."
The Fed report depicted an economy that over all is neither faltering nor gathering much steam. Housing and construction are picking up just about everywhere, even in districts that have been hit by flooding and heavy rain. Retail sales and services seem to be growing at least a bit in most districts. But manufacturing is weak pretty much across the board except for a few pockets of strength.
Growth remains markedly uneven around the country, with the South and Mountain states strongest, the Midwest showing modest growth in spite of the flood and the two coasts still struggling.
The recovery still has not reached California, which is part of the San Francisco district. California business leaders are not expecting anything but very gradual improvement in the year ahead.
But in the Northeast, the New York and Boston banks report, there are more signs of life. In New York and New Jersey, businesses reported brisk sales in June. Office vacancies are still edging down. Builders say they are digging foundations at a fair to good pace. In New England, insurers, automotive suppliers and biotechnology companies have reported gains. And consumers are spending, though cautiously.
In the Midwest, which has been doing better than much of the rst of the country, the economy is still growing modestly, largely because of the strength so far this year in housing and cars. That may be explained by the fact that all the counties that have been declared disaster areas together account for 7 percent of the nation's personal income.
"So far the major problems are in agriculture, but they did not spread to manufacturing," said Stephen S. Strongin, vice president for research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Apart from huge damage to roads, rail tracks and bridges, houses and farmland, he said, "You have crop losses and lower retail sales in the flood areas and those are impacting economic growth."
Nonetheless, the effects of the flooding are major in the areas along the rivers that are under water or deluged by relentless rain.
 
Flooding's Effects 'A Big Deal'

"It's a big deal in the third quarter in this district," said Art Rolnick, research director at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Crop losses so far total $1.9 billion for his district. Even if no factories produced less or stores sell less, that could shave four percentage points from the district's growth rate this summer.
"Looking at the future,the economic expansion is probably going to continue," he said. "But we lost some income, and in local areas, the losses are very large."
Administration officials and private economists have been estimating that the flooding could shave roughly a quarter of a percentage point from economic growth in the third and fourth quarters. And that lost growth may be partly or completely made up in the next year as Federal aid -- the Administration's latest request is for $5.8 billion -- pours into the disaster areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (64%); HOUSING & CONSTRUCTION HOLDING CO LTD (52%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FLOODS; RAIN; WEATHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WEATHER (78%); TRENDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); AGRICULTURE (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WHEAT FARMING (69%); FOOD PRICES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



135 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Hail Demise Of Bridgeport Trash Pile

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Aug. 4

 BODY:
The former site of a 35-foot illegal dump known as Mount Trashmore was officially turned over to the City of Bridgeport today as more than 150 residents of the city's East End gathered to celebrate.
"I had my doubts that this day would ever come," said James Drayton, 75, "but we fought hard and I just thank God that we won." 
 The site on Central Avenue was cleared of the debris in January after a lengthy battle by neighborhood residents to clear the two-acre lot, where the owners of a wrecking company had dumped five years' worth of construction debris.
"I had to live with the smell for five years as we all watched that dump grow and grow and grow," Mr. Drayton said. "The smell was practically unbearable for an eight-block area."
Today, however, residents gathered at the site to eat hamburgers and hot dogs and to hear public officials describe the city's plan to develop the property as part of a $1 million renovation project.
Singing "We Shall Overcome" and wearing T-shirts that read "Don't Dump on Us," neighborhood residents and members of East End Baptist Tabernacle Church, who staged more than 80 marches to protest the dump, were led again by the church's pastor, the Rev. Vernon S. Thompson, for a final, symbolic march.
"It's been a long journey and I'm just happy we have gotten here," said Mr. Thompson, who is also heads the city's Human Resources Department. "We're now going to make the community the healthy place it should have been long ago."
The Mount Trashmore site was seized by the state and the huge pile of debris was hauled away after a five-year legal battle. Geno R. Capozziello Sr. and his brother, Russell Sr., who ran the Connecticut Building Wrecking Company, were jailed and fined for illegally hauling demolition debris from construction sites to the lot, which they had owned. The debris included such hazardous wastes as lead, creosote and asbestos.
Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, who attended the ceremonies today, said the state would keep trying to collect $868,000 in fines from the Capozziello brothers. He said the brothers have appealed to the State Supreme Court, and he expects a ruling on the case in the next few weeks.
Mayor Joseph P. Ganim told the gathering that the combined efforts of the community, city officials, city businesses and the state had eliminated Mount Trashmore.
The state paid for most of the $800,000 cleanup, and the city paid the rest. Dozens of truckloads of debris were carted off and burned at an incinerator in Bridgeport.
Mayor Ganim said that while plans were not complete, a city was establishing a fund to revitalize the neighborhood. With matching state and Federal grants, the fund could grow to $1 million, he said. Under the preliminary plans, the site would probably be turned into a parking lot or courtyard for new housing.
Shortly after, to symbolize the renovation plans, an old house that bordered the lot was demolished by a city wrecking crew.
Many in the crowd cheered as the bulldozer began crushing the house. James Reid, a church member, stood nearby and prayed.
"I'm just so happy for this day because that dump was a hazard for the children -- and for everyone," he said. "I was just standing here thanking God that it is finally gone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I had my doubts that this day would ever come," said James Drayton, who was among the residents of Bridgeport, Conn., who successfully fought to have an illegal dump removed from their neighborhood. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT BUILDING WRECKING CO

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BUILDING WRECKING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRIDGEPORT (CONN); CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; FINES (PENALTIES) CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); CITIES (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CRIMINAL FINES (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (64%); MATCHING GIFTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); ASBESTOS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); HUMAN RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



136 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: White House Memo;
An Excess of the Pulpit And Not Enough Bully?

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Staring defeat in the face, Richard III melodramatically offered to trade his kingdom for a horse. In an equally tight spot this week, President Clinton has talked himself to the brink of laryngitis, but his wheeling and his dealing have been strikingly subdued.
Without the vote of Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, a conservative Democrat who finally agreed late this afternoon to support him, Mr. Clinton seemed likely to be beaten when his budget proposals come before the Senate on Friday. Some incentives had been offered to Mr. DeConcini, including a less onerous tax on high-income recipients of Social Security, designed to appeal to the many wealthy retirees in Phoenix and Tucson, and an executive order pledging new tax revenues to deficit reduction rather than new spending. 
 But when Mr. DeConcini went to the White House this morning to watch the signing of the order, did the President bear down in hopes he could seal the deal and parade the Senator before the television cameras? He did not. Asked whether he remained undecided, Mr. DeConcini said that indeed he did.
What, someone wanted to know, was Mr. Clinton going to do to move him? The President seemed nonplussed and finally answered, "Good government." Aides said later that he had not been sure what the Arizonan planned to do until just before Mr. DeConcini made his announcement.
 
Reluctant to Get Tough
 It was a strangely disjointed episode in the thoroughly perplexing story of Bill Clinton's quest for a program he and many others have long thought he needed to survive.
Many in Washington, including some undecided lawmakers, have been deeply puzzled by the President's seeming reluctance to get tough with the Democrats who have made the passage of this centerpiece of his Administration such an arduous undertaking. Several House members said the President had never told them, crisply and unambiguously, that he had to have their votes.
Mr. Clinton is not playing hardball, politicians and lobbyists say, partly because of an ingrained reluctance to crack down, partly because the political realities on Capitol Hill have changed and partly because he has so many tough fights ahead that he does not want to expend all his ammunition at once.
"I have been criticized in some quarters for not talking tough enough," Mr. Clinton acknowledged this morning in a speech to the Urban League. "My theory is that if you do the tough things, actions speak louder than words."
George Stephanopoulos, one of Mr. Clinton's top advisers, argues that his boss is getting a bum rap. "There is a difference in your approach 14 days out, 7 days out and 2 days out," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. "You don't want to start shouting too early. But I can promise you this: In this final 48 hours, nobody will leave the Oval Office or get off the phone with the President without feeling that they have been asked for their vote."
But among some who have worked on Congressional relations in other Administrations, many of them now lobbyists, there is disdain for Mr. Clinton's performance, even though he will probably prevail.
Several weeks ago, a senior member of the White House staff was told by an old-timer, "Sooner or later, the President's going to have to tell one of these senators that like it or not, he's going to support the Administration, he's going to get nothing for it, and if he doesn't he'll pay for it, period."
The Clinton staffer answered, "But these guys don't know that game."
 
'The Boom Is Broken'
 Tom C. Korologos, a White House mainstay under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, was somewhat more generous. One reason that Mr. Clinton has not lowered the boom on wayward Democrats, he said, "is that the boom is broken."
It is true that many of the techniques used by past Presidents are no longer available. Some were always dicey. In 1970, President Nixon successfully encouraged Republican voters in New York to back James L. Buckley, a Conservative, over Senator Charles Goodell, a Republican foe of the Vietnam War.
But Franklin D. Roosevelt, one of the most popular Presidents, failed in his attempt to purge five Democratic senators and one Representative. All but one were renominated easily.
"Nowadays, the most successful Senate candidates are elected by going against the grain, picturing themselves as standing up for their state or region against the evil knights of Washington," said one of Mr. Clinton's strategists. "If a President is too ham-handed, you only help the guy you're trying to hurt. And believe me, they don't care whether or not you campaign for them or help them raise money, which was one of F.D.R.'s main levers."
 
A Lot of Machines
 Anne Wexler, who worked in the Carter White House, says any modern President is dealing not with Democratic and Republican blocs in the Senate but with "100 separate political machines." Ms. Wexler, now a lobbyist, gives Mr. Clinton credit for "a good political ear" and suggests that with a heavy and complicated political agenda, he has to be careful not to get into a trading posture, where lawmakers can say, "I'll vote for the budget if you'll give me a pass on health care."
In fact, the Clinton Administration tried to make an example of Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, a Democrat who defected early in the battle over the economic package. A small office of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration was moved out of his state, and he was limited to a single ticket when the national champion University of Alabama football team came to the White House for a reception.
It didn't work, partly because members of the President's staff bragged about their maneuvers. Mr. Shelby was looked upon as a hero at home, and he is one of six Democrats who are expected to vote "no."
Presidents once disciplined mavericks, or tried to, by regulating the flow of dams, highways, airports and post offices. Far fewer of those sorts of things are available to the needy chief executive today.
 
The Subtle Touches
 Still, as Mr. Korologos said, there are subtle things a President can do.
"You get a guy from the West who's causing you trouble, you have the Interior Department spread the word, quietly, that he can't get things done in Washington," Mr. Korologos suggested. "You get a guy from Florida, let it be known that the Corps of Engineers can't work with him. Summertime, cut the allocation of tour passes for the White House. Keep him off Air Force One. Don't return his calls. Cut his wife from the First Lady's social list."
And there are some new techniques. The Reagan Administration compared computer lists of its own contributors with lists of those who had given to balky legislators. When it found a match, it asked the donor to put the pressure on the legislator but not to mention the White House. It often worked wonders.
But Mr. Clinton has held back. In the case of Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, the New Jerseyan who is another of the six Democrats expected to oppose the President, no attempt was made to twist arms or to enlist Gov. Jim Florio to change the Senator's mind. Some White House strategists thought that doing so would only risk losing Mr. Lautenberg's seat when he runs for re-election next year and paring the Democrats' narrow Senate majority.
Even in the best of times, relations between Presidents and Congresses are fiendishly difficult to manage.
With a lifetime of experience on Capitol Hill, Lyndon B. Johnson usually knew just what blend of sugar and vinegar would work. But not always. Once, when Southerners were giving him trouble on the 1964 civil rights bill, he invited Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia to the White House. After a few suitably flattering remarks, he put his arm around the Senator's shoulder.
"Bob McNamara says we have to close that Norfolk naval base of yours," he said, according to a onetime Johnson aide, "and I don't much want to."
Mr. Byrd got the message. But he still voted no.
Jimmy Carter, like Mr. Clinton a newcomer to Washington, failed to provide good seats at his inauguration for the guests of Representative Thomas P. O'Neill, the powerful Speaker of the House, and Mr. O'Neill never forgave him. Mr. Clinton and his team have made no gaffes on that scale.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton arriving yesterday at the Capitol to meet with Democrats about the budget plan. At left was a secret service agent. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (78%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (78%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



137 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: The Senator Who Switched;
For DeConcini, the Vote Is a Gamble

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Aug. 4

 BODY:
The temperature was heading toward 108 degrees today in the Valley of the Sun, and Leah Akers was sheltering under a japonica tree with the rest of the Oasis Senior Citizens Association, a clump of gray hair, bright prints and collective cynicism over Senator Dennis DeConcini's decision to change his vote and give President Clinton a chance for a victory in his budget battle.
"DeConcini is trying to maneuver himself into buying votes, but he's not going to get mine," said Ms. Akers, a retired clerk. The group snickered in derision at the mention of the "deficit-reduction trust fund" that Mr. Clinton agreed to establish at the urging of Senator DeConcini, a three-term Democrat who faces a tough re-election battle next year against Democratic and Republican opponents. 
 And the group was not much impressed that the final plan would partly reduce the increase in taxes on Social Security benefits for retired people; it was still more taxes on people living on fixed incomes.
Taken against the complex politics of this conservative state, Senator DeConcinci's vote switch was a gamble that many political experts doubted he would win in the long run. The consensus was that it might help him somewhat in beating back an expected primary challenge from Richard Mahoney, the Arizona Secretary of State, but could be a damaging issue in the general election, when the Republican candidate is expected to be Representative Jon Kyl, 51, who has represented Arizona's Fourth Congressional District since 1987.
 
Singled Out by Clinton
 Mr. DeConcini was the only Senator mentioned by the President in his address Tuesday night. And he stayed in the spotlight today with a trip to the Oval Office for a declaration from Mr. Clinton establishing the deficit fund, and with a news conference a few hours later announcing his support of the Clinton economic plan.
It was a role the 56-year-old Senator has often relished, as an unpredictable Democrat who straddles political fences and delays his decision on close votes to gain leverage, sometimes voting with his party but often with the Republicans. This strategy has kept him in office even though Arizona has 40,000 more registered Republicans than Democrats. In 1988 he won 57 percent of the vote in defeating Keith Green, a little-known Republican opponent.
But Mr. DeConcini's political fortunes have faded in recent years, especially since 1989, when he was named as one of the Keating Five who met with a Federal savings and loans regulator on behalf of Charles Keating, now imprisoned in California for securities fraud in the collapse of the Lincoln Savings and Loans.
 
'Appearance of Impropriety'
 In February 1991, the Senate Ethics Committee issued mild reprimands to Mr. DeConcini and three other Senators, including his Republican colleague from Arizona, John McCain, for intervening with regulators on behalf of Mr. Keating in exchange for campaign contributions. The committee said Mr. DeConcini, who received $85,000 from Mr. Keating, "gave the appearance of impropriety" in taking the money.
Senator DeConcini's role in the budget battle has been followed closely throughout the state, from his native Tucson near the border with Mexico to the Navajo Indian reservation in the north. The President's economic plan is highly unpopular in Arizona, particularly among the elderly people who have flocked here from other states to retire in recent years.
They are people like Fred Saunders, a 65-year-old retired computer analyst from Oak Forest, Ill., and his wife Dorthea, who live in Chandler, Ariz. He said he voted for Senator DeConcini five years ago but would not again.
"The Clinton speech proved he bought DeConcini," Mr. Saunders said. "He sold his vote. Under this budget, the deficit will increase $1.25 trillion in four years. That's not a cut."
Although the Senator said there was no quid-pro-quo, political strategists here were quick to speculate that Mr. DeConcini demanded more than just the deficit-reduction trust fund from the President, and may have sought help in putting pressure on Mr. Mahoney to stay out of the Democratic primary.
Mr. Mahoney, a 42-year-old professor of foreign policy at the American Graduate School of International Management in Phoenix, was elected Secretary of State in 1989 campaigning as an anti-Washington outsider. He has said he opposes the Clinton budget.
In a telephone interview from Washington, Mr. Kyl said the vote "will have an effect" on the campaign. "It goes against the popular sentiment in Arizona," he said. "Our switchboard has been lit up all day. A lot of calls were from people who wanted us to pass on a message to DeConcini because they could not get through to his office."
Still, Mr. DeConcini, who was the Pima County Attorney in Tucson before being elected to the Senate in 1976, has a considerable base of support in Arizona.
"He made a good move by recommending the establishment of the deficit-reduction trust fund," said Alison Hughes of Tucson, vice chairwoman of the Arizona Democratic Party. "Arizona is a tough state for Democrats, but people vote for the person. It depends on how short a memory the public has. Whether it will bother them in the coming election, I don't know."
 
Support From a Liberal
 And if the affluent elderly here in Scottsdale are dubious, he has considerable backing elsewhere, such as up in Coconino County, where Tom Chabin is a staunch Democrat and a county supervisor who represents part of Flagstaff and parts of the Navajo and Hopi reservations.
"I really want DeConcini to vote for Clinton's package," Mr. Chabin said. "Absolutely. The Republicans are obstructionists. They want to destroy the Clinton Presidency.
"Ultimately, DeConcini is going to vote for it, and that gives me reason to support him even more. Personally, I'm extremely loyal to him. For someone who's as basically liberal as I am, DeConcini can be frustrating. But he has used his influence to help me get elected. He's a genuine person when it comes to helping those who help him."
And Republicans are not entirely writing him off.
"DeConcini was in a very difficult position," said Robert Robb, a Phoenix political consultant who is acting chairman of the Kyl campaign. "A vote against the President would have hurt him in a tough primary. A vote with the President, presumptively, will hurt him in the general election. But how it will look a year from now is a very different matter. If the economy recovers, a lot could be repaired for DeConcini."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona at a news conference in Washington at which he announced he would vote for the Clinton budget. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ARIZONA UNITED STATES (95%); ARIZONA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES ; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ETHICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); BANK FAILURES (60%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; DECONCINI, DENNIS (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MAHONEY, RICHARD BILL CLINTON (92%); JON KYL (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



138 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Money Woes In Europe May Aid U.S.

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Official Washington hardly wishes to be seen celebrating a difficult and embarrassing moment for European leaders, but quietly, very quietly, many on this side of the Atlantic say that the currency crisis last week may turn out to be a blessing in disguise.
After the Exchange Rate Mechanism, the European Community's system of substantially fixed exchange rates, threatened to come apart, finance ministers and central bankers reluctantly agreed to let their currencies trade within much wider ranges. 
 The move will give the French, Italians and others more room to lower interest rates. Many analysts have said that lower rates and cheaper currencies are just what the doctor ordered to revive recession-bound European economies.
 
A Brake on Protectionism
 "It diffused tensions that drove interest rates up in Europe," David Mullins, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said of last weekend's decision. "Better economic conditions in Europe are positive for the U.S. and positive for the climate on trade, including the chances for reducing protectionist sentiment."
There is always the risk that rancor over the sharp braking of Europe's march toward a single currency could do wide damage, undermining global trade talks. But government officials, economists and executives on this side of the Atlantic are focusing on the economic and political prospects for reviving growth in the recession-ridden countries.
Sir Alan Walters, an adviser to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher when she held office and now vice chairman of the AIG Trading Corporation, a subsidiary of the international insurance company, put it bluntly. "Europe now has a chance of coming out of its deep slump," he said. "If it's good for Europe, so it's good for the United States economy."
American executives of companies with operations in Europe talk of the prospect of many nations' now lowering interest rates. The lower rates, in turn, could revive moribund economies and sales.
"This will help Thermo Electron," said John N. Hatsopoulos, chief financial officer of the company, based in Waltham, Mass. "The fact that they'll be able to cut their rates is going to be a lot of help."
Such optimism increased after the German central bank, which touched off the crisis by declining to lower its most important interest rate last week, lowered repurchase rates on Tuesday and again today.
 
Perils of Volatility Questioned
 The major prospective danger -- currency swings -- may not be as bad as people fear. Executives of companies that would be affected say they have learned to hedge against such fluctuations, and that the swings may not be large ones.
Hans Menhard, vice president at Siemens U.S.A., commented that "setting free exchange rates may not have as big an impact on actual exchange rates as people anticipate when they read about the 15 percent range," the upper limit agreed to Monday. Letting exchange rates find their natural levels, instead of forcing them out of line with individual nations' economic conditions, executives said, might mean less volatility.
For the Clinton Administration, which has been hampered by a sluggish, stop-and-go economic recovery, lower interest rates and the possibility of growth in nations countries is welcome indeed. Officials expect a mild increase in American exports to Europe as the recession there fades.
Economists and executives also say that the recent French-German tension could make it harder for the United States to get cooperation on international undertakings like the long-sought world trade treaty being negotiated under the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. "It makes life more complicated politically," said John Lipsky of Salomon Brothers.
The currency crisis dented the credibility, and perhaps effectiveness, of some European Community governments. For the United States, such weakness poses a problem. "It's harder to get effective international cooperation, which often requires squishing domestic political opposition, when you have weak partners to deal with," an official here said.
And Mr. Mullins said, the weakness in the Exchange Rate Mechanism could make it harder to avoid a return to 1970's-style inflation at some point. "They do have a challenge ahead," he said. "They're free to cut rates, but they also have to worry about inflation credibility."
Some Administration officials said they see the currency crisis as a spat between married partners, not a basic threat to European unity. Optimists argue that the turmoil could actually make it easier to persuade Europeans to sign a trade treaty.
"This is good news on the Uruguay Round," said Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics and a former trade negotiator. "It'll provide some pickup in growth and blunt protectionist sentiment." And over the years, he said, when Europeans have been unable to cooperate in some area, they redoubled their efforts on another.
There is little disagreement that the economic effect, even if modest, is likely to be positive. If France, and especially Germany, reduce rates, the European currencies would presumably weaken somewhat against the dollar. The slightly stronger dollar, in turn, could help keep rates low by reducing expectations of inflation.
"European rate cuts will push up the dollar," said Rudiger Dornbush, an M.I.T. economist who is a strong advocate of loosening exchange rates. "With Greenspan's angst, that will come in handy."
Early corroboration seems to be coming from the bond market. On Tuesday, long-term yields dropped to the lowest level in 16 years as investors reacted to the prospect of lower European rates and signs that American growth remains anemic. Today, the price of the 30-year bond dropped slightly, raising its yield to 6.55 percent -- still a very low level.
Consumers could get a bit of a break, too, from last week's European monetary ferment. Americans traveling in Europe next year might suffer less sticker shock. "It's good news, but good news travels slow," said Rex Fritschie, head of a Chicago travel agency. "We're hoping this will have some effect in 1994.
 
Life Will Be a Cabernet
 A cheaper franc, lira and peseta might be a boon for wine lovers, said Don Zacharia, owner of Zachys, a big wine shop in Scarsdale, N.Y. "It's going to bring wine prices down." But he cautioned that with a lot of wine already in the pipeline, price breaks will not show up for six months to three years.
Of course, a stronger dollar would also make United States exports to Europe less competitive by making them expensive for Europeans to buy. About a quarter of American exports now go to Europe, a huge market for machinery, computers, aircraft and communications gear.
But an earlier revival of growth in Europe could give European workers and businesses more money to spend on American products, offsetting the negative effect of a stronger dollar.
American multinational companies with operations in Europe expect higher sales. "It adds to the uncertainty, but what's important to our business is whether the French feel confident about their future and therefore are willing to invest more," said Brad Allen, director of investor relations at Digital Equipment Corporation, the computer maker, half of whose sales are in Europe.
Digital, Bechtel and other multinationals hedge their international transactions to protect them form currency losses.
"It's business as usual for us," said Stephen C. Williams, vice president and manager of finance at Bechtel International, whose projects typically stretch over two or three years. "Even when the Exchange Rate Mechanism was in place and it might have been relevant for transactions over a few weeks," he said, "we had to hedge our position in currency, and we'll continue to do that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TMO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (60%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (52%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (52%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (52%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AIG TRADING CORP (66%); SIEMENS CORP (60%); THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC (52%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); TRENDS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NASAR, SYLVIA BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



139 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
An idea for countering the deficit: forcing citizens to save.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
IF Democrats do manage to shoehorn through a budget this week, what will they have accomplished? Something close to $500 billion in deficit reduction over the next five years -- $500 billion the Government would otherwise have bid away from private investment or borrowed abroad.
More than some people expected, perhaps. But to William Gale and Robert Litan, economists at the Brookings Institution, this glass is decidedly half empty. By their reckoning, the fact that Washington has turned itself inside out just to buy a few years' grace on the deficit is evidence that the long-term fight for fiscal rectitude has already been lost. 
Their startling alternative, to be published next month in the Brookings house journal: mandatory private savings to offset government's unwillingness to tax as much as it spends.
The premise is simple. Mr. Gale and Mr. Litan point out that the budget package will reduce the deficit to a still-substantial 3 percent of national output. After 1998, the percentage will begin to rise again unless spending is cut or taxes are raised. And in light of the political capital that Democrats have been forced to burn to prevail on this round of deficit reduction, the Brookings economists are deeply pessimistic about the prospects for another.
What to do? Look past the deficit to the core problem, say the economists: anemic national savings.
Japan runs as large a deficit as the United States when it is calculated as a fraction of national income, they note. But no one -- or, at least no economist outside Japan -- really worries because families and corporations still generate more than enough savings to finance very high rates of domestic investment. Almost two-thirds of Americans' net private savings, in contrast, is offset by Federal borrowing.
Some analysts who acknowledge that the deficit problem is a savings problem see incentives for savings as the solution. Indeed, that is why Washington offered a variety of tax benefits to encourage savings during the 1980's.
But the Brookings team is skeptical that tax incentives can work. In spite of all those carrots for savings in the Reagan era, they point out, the overall private savings rate fell to a record low. And research on the most popular of these initiatives, individual retirement accounts, suggest that they added barely a tenth of a percentage point to the total savings rate. Much of the tax benefit, it seems, went to the affluent, who would have saved anyway.
The Brookings economists propose to use sticks instead of carrots, requiring everyone under 65 to save who can afford it. More specifically, they would set a 4 percent minimum savings requirement for families with incomes between $20,000 and $40,000. The percentage would rise progressively, with a top savings bracket of 10 percent for those with incomes of more than $80,000.
Family savings would be measured from cash flows -- the difference between purchases and sales of assets. Failure to meet the minimum would be discouraged with stiff taxes on any shortfall. But exceptions would be made for people paying for college or burdened by catastrophic medical bills.
Mr. Litan acknowledges there would be plenty of ambiguity in the definition of savings, and thus plenty of loose ends to any regulations. But he thinks forced savings would be far more popular than tax rises or government spending cuts -- after all, savers could park the money pretty much anywhere they chose and get it back with interest when they retired. And he estimates that it could add up to 4 percentage points to national savings, a significant advance in an economy that currently saves 2 percent of income in a thrifty year.
Conservatives are not persuaded. Rudolph Penner, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, offers the classic objection: "I dislike government mandates." Some are not even amused: John Makin of the American Enterprise Institute calls the proposal "sick and wrong," adding, "It would be a major invasion of personal liberties."
What may surprise, though, is that forced savings also draws criticism, albeit more tempered, from nonconservatives. Richard Cooper, a Harvard economist who served in the Carter Administration, does not think added private savings would be an adequate substitute for deficit reduction. For one thing, he argues, the ballooning deficit is itself a problem, forcing Washington to devote an ever-greater portion of revenues to interest payments. For another, he thinks the linkages between national savings and future living standards are weaker than conventional wisdom suggests.
What counts most to future output, he says, is the rate of investment. And as long as foreigners are willing to lend the difference, investment will not be much affected by the level of domestic savings.
Such criticism leaves Mr. Litan more than a little frustrated. Will foreigners always be willing to underwrite America's growth? he wonders. Would Americans rest easy with the dependence? "I want to make one last stab at raising national savings before we give up," he says.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SAVINGS BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); FAMILY (86%); TAX RELIEF (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; GALE, WILLIAM; LITAN, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



140 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Business Failures Fall

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
United States business failures fell nearly 10 percent in the first half of this year as the American economy revived, according to the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
A record number of businesses failed in the United States last year. But the rate of increase in failures peaked during the year and declined in the fourth quarter. 
 For the first six months of 1993, business failures were down in all major industries and nearly every region, the company reported.
Over all, business failures dropped 9.9 percent, to 45,749, from 50,793 in the corresponding period in 1992. Except for places with lingering problems -- California, Hawaii and Connecticut, for instance -- the turnaround is broad-based, said Joseph W. Duncan, vice president and corporate economist for Dun & Bradstreet.
"The current pattern of business failures reflects the fundamental strength of the United States economy," Mr. Duncan said.
This means larger companies are failing less, Dun & Bradstreet reported. The dollar value of liabilities associated with business failures declined 53.3 percent, to $25 billion, from $54 billion in the year-earlier period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNB (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (93%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DUN & BRADSTREET CORP DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUN & BRADSTREET CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BANKRUPTCIES BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (94%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



141 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Dow Off, but Nasdaq Index Closes at High

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
Stocks moved in aimless fashion yesterday, as traders focused on the scheduled votes in Congress today and tomorrow on President Clinton's deficit-cutting package.
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 9.22 points to close at 3,552.05, while the Standard & Poor's index of 500 major stocks fell 0.73 point, to 448.54.
 
Intel Paces Nasdaq
 But the other major market barometer, the Nasdaq composite index -- fueled by buying interest in secondary stocks and a two-point gain by the Intel Corporation, the second-largest Nasdaq company -- rose 4.78 points to set a record close of 713.79. 
 On Tuesday, Intel and Unisys said that they intended to develop new computer systems to replace large mainframes. The previous Nasdaq high of 712.49 was set on July 14.
"The market is in a tight trading range that gives ground grudgingly," said Alan Ackerman, executive vice president of Reich & Company. "It is treading water in anticipation of the President's budget bill and of the employment numbers due on Friday."
Mr. Ackerman added that Wall Street was not expecting a significant change from June's 7 percent unemployment level when the July unemployment rate is disclosed tomorrow. "This is clearly frustrating because not enough jobs are being created," he said.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was moderate, with 230 million shares changing hands. Advancers led decliners by 969 to 938.
 
Kmart Rises on Heavy Trading
 Kmart, the most active Big Board stock, rose 1, to 21 5/8, after announcing that it was considering the sale of its Payless Drug Store subsidiary. Other retailers were also up for the day, though Tiffany lost 1 5/8 to close at 29 on lower earnings estimates by analysts.
In the latest development of the tobacco wars, Philip Morris said that it would cut prices of its discounted cigarette brands, instead of raising them as planned.
As a result, its stock dropped 1/2, to 47, while RJR Nabisco, whose R. J. Reynolds unit had declined to match the initial Philip Morris plan to raise prices, was unchanged at 5 and was the fourth-most-active stock on the New York exchange.
 
Auto Stocks Weak
 With July sales of domestic cars and trucks below analysts' expectations, auto stocks were weak yesterday. Ford Motor fell 7/8, to 53 3/4; Chrysler declined 5/8, to 43 1/4, and General Motors, on the most active list, was unchanged at 49 1/4.
Among the stronger insurance stocks, General Re, a property and casualty reinsurer, was up 2 1/2, to 125 1/2. After the market closed on Tuesday, the company reported a 16 percent gain in second-quarter earnings -- a larger increase than anticipated by Wall Street.
Selective buying was also noted during the day in some stocks that were heavily sold down recently. Apple Computer advanced 1 1/4, to 30 1/4; Cisco Systems increased 7/8, to 54 3/8, and Wellfleet rose 1 1/2, to 52 1/2.
Charter Medical said that it was considering the sale of 10 acute-care hospitals and that it had narrowed its third-quarter loss to $5.3 million. In reaction, the company's stock increased 1 1/4, to 20 3/4, a new 52-week high.
In contrast, Lockheed said that its missiles and space operation would cut about 1,600 jobs by December, following an earlier 1,600-job reduction this year. Its stock fell 4, to 62 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); REICH & CO INC (69%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); PAY LESS DRUG STORES NORTHWEST INC (53%); KRAFT NABISCO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; PRICES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (96%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); TOBACCO MFG (86%); INSURANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); RETAILERS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); REINSURANCE (62%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



142 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Lautenberg Unpressured Over Budget

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 4

 BODY:
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, the only Democratic Senator from the Northeast to oppose President Clinton's budget proposal, is being allowed to hold his ground without any challenge from New Jersey party leaders or arm-twisting by the White House.
No attempt has been made to enlist Gov. Jim Florio to try to change Mr. Lautenberg's mind, and party leaders said in interviews that they respected Mr. Lautenberg's decision. It is a decision that Democrats in New Jersey and in Washington understand to be a politically pragmatic one: the Senator faces a potentially tough re-election bid next year, fiscal policy is likely to be the main issue and New Jersey is a tax-weary state. 
 Mr. Lautenberg's position has forced party leaders to weigh the possibility of losing a Senate seat against a break in party discipline over the importance of the budget.
A senior Senate aide in Washington who spoke on the condition that he not be identified said the White House and the Democratic National Committee were aware of Mr. Lautenberg's future campaign. "I don't think they are leaning on him," he said. "I think they figured out a couple of weeks ago that he was a goner, that they had lost him.
 
'Don't Need to Be Said'
 "In terms of him going to the Democratic National Committee or the White House and saying, 'I need out on this one,' I don't think that happened," he said. "But these sorts of things are understood in Washington and don't need to be said."
Mr. Lautenberg could be running next year against former Gov. Thomas H. Kean or Representative Dick Zimmer, a two-term Republican Congressman who voted against two state budgets, including Mr. Kean's last budget, when he was a member of the New Jersey Senate.
Mr. Zimmer, who has said he would defer to Mr. Kean if the former Governor decides to run against Mr. Lautenberg, has become something of a fiscal watchdog in Washington. As a member of the Commerce, Consumer and Monetary Affairs, and Science, Space and Technology Committees, Mr. Zimmer has been among those leading the fight to scrap the space station program as wasteful.
Mr. Lautenberg has said his campaign did not figure in his decision to oppose Mr. Clinton's budget, but in discussing his reasons for opposing the plan with reporters, Mr. Lautenberg said some expensive items should have been excised to make it more equitable, "such as the space station and the supercollider."
 
Whitman Echoes Stand
 The only apparent pressure on the eve of the votes in the House and Senate came today from Christine Todd Whitman, the Republican candidate for New Jersey governor, who urged Mr. Lautenberg to stick to his guns. Mrs. Whitman also sent letters to members of the state's Congressional delegation, urging them to follow Mr. Lautenberg's lead. Senator Bill Bradley is supporting the bill; in the House, all six New Jersey Republicans and three of seven Democrats opposed it in June.
But that bit of campaign maneuvering aside, the 69-year-old lawmaker has shielded himself from being viewed by party regulars as deserting under fire by making his opposition to the budget clear in June
The minority leader of the State Senate, John A. Lynch of New Brunswick, said Mr. Lautenberg had paid his dues to the party and had been able to justify his position. "If this was an ideal budget plan it would be worth a damn to put political blood into it," he said. "If it was real good and Frank wouldn't step up to the plate, some people here would be unhappy with him.
"But it is not ideal and he is running next year," Mr. Lynch said. "He certainly has been supportive of the party and good for New Jersey."
Jon Shure, Mr. Florio's spokesman, said the White House had never asked the Governor to intercede with Mr. Lautenberg and that the Governor had never expressed an opinion about the Senator's position. "I don't know what they're doing, but they have not asked us to help," Mr. Shure said of the White House.
State Senator Raymond Lesniak, the New Jersey Democratic chairman, said he was asked by the Clinton Administration to talk to the entire Congressional delegation "about the need to address the budget deficit to keep interest rates down and the economy rolling and to get this poor economy behind us, but I was never asked to twist anyone's arm."
"If there is any pressure on Senator Lautenberg it's not coming through me or anyone I'm aware of, in terms of the White House or the Democratic National Committee," he said. "They understand he made his decision and it's going to stand."
Mr. Lesniak also said Mr. Florio was out campaigning for his own re-election in November and leaving the question of the President's budget proposal up to the state's Congressional delegation.
But while there may be no direct pressure from his party colleagues to change his vote, Mr. Lautenberg is one of a number of Democratic Congressmen and Senators in several states whose constituents are being called by the Democratic National Committee. Staff members began calling the constituents on Tuesday and asking those who support the compromise budget worked out by a Senate-House Conference Committee to phone their Representatives and urge them to vote for it.
A woman who lives in Summit said she received one of the calls and was asked if she would be willing to be put through to Mr. Lautenberg's office. "I waited and they connected me with his voice mail," she said. "All I got was a message saying the mailbox was full before it hung up."
The telephone lines at the New Jersey district offices of both Senators Lautenberg and Bradley were busy throughout the day today.
Mr. Lautenberg said in June that the budget plan was bad for New Jersey. He said the President had made several concessions to Senators from Western states over mineral and grazing rights in order to round up votes but had not recognized New Jersey's problems, including the impact on the state's large elderly population of the increase in taxes on Social Security benefits. "An elderly couple in a nursing home are not rich at $45,000 in the state of New Jersey." he said. "We're a state with high enough taxes."
Mr. Lautenberg added that it was not at all clear that his vote would help his campaign. "Next year's campaign could be influenced either way," he said. "If the economy stays strong and things prosper, there will be those who might say I should have voted for it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Frank R. Lautenberg was in his Washington office yesterday, free of last-minute calls trying to persuade him to change his opposition to President Clinton's budget package. The Democratic leadership had decided to stay away in light of his re-election prospects next year in a tax-angry state. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (92%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); BUDGETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SPACE EXPLORATION (65%); SPACECRAFT (60%); SPACE STATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAUTENBERG, FRANK (SEN); SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F FRANK LAUTENBERG (94%); BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



143 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Germans Trim Another Rate And Give a Lift to the Dollar

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday as a cut in a German interest rate spurred selling of the mark.
The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, reduced the 28-day security repurchase rate 15 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 6.70 percent. On Tuesday, the Germans trimmed the 14-day repurchase rate. The moves reinforced speculation that the German central bank might reduce its benchmark discount rate late this month. 
 "This is the first time the repo rate is lower than the discount rate," said Tom Leonard, assistant vice president at Postipankki Bank. "That's enough reason for investors to be long dollars." The German discount rate is currently 6.75 percent.
A Bundesbank council member, Otmar Issing, bolstered this view by saying that officials there would carefully review their ability to take monetary-policy steps, partly to calm markets after the overhaul of the European Monetary System last weekend.
Dealers who had expected rates to tumble in other European countries instead sold considerable quantities of marks that had been hoarded at the height of the monetary crisis. Speculators traded marks mainly for French and Belgian francs, indirectly increasing the dollar's value against the mark.
Outside Germany, one dealer at an American bank in London said, "short-term rates are still painfully high so people are looking to bank profits" made on the mark in the last week.
Yesterday, in late New York trading, the dollar rose to 1.7100 marks from 1.7065 marks on Tuesday.
The dollar also rebounded some against the yen. It was quoted In New York at 104.88 yen in late trading, up from 104.42 on Tuesday.
Dealers said the currency markets had already anticipated a widening of Japan's current-accounts surplus for the 27th month. Japan said yesterday that the surplus, a broad index of trade in goods and services, increased sharply in June, to $10.71 billion from $9.44 billion a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (85%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANK NA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; UNITED STATES GERMANY (97%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (85%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (54%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



144 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Court Backs G.M. on Plant Closing

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 4

 BODY:
A Michigan appeals court today reversed a ruling handed down in February that had prevented the General Motors Corporation from closing its Willow Run assembly plant in Ypsilanti, Mich.
The ruling was a victory for G.M. The auto maker had determined in 1992 that it wanted to consolidate production at a plant in Arlington, Tex., because of financial losses and declining sales of its large, rear-wheel-drive cars like the Chevrolet Caprice, Buick Roadmaster and Cadillac Brougham. 
 "Obviously, we're pleased," Margaret Holmes, a G.M. spokeswoman, said. On Thursday, she said, G.M. will petition the appeals court to make the decision effective immediately so that the company can shut Willow Run permanently. The plant has been temporarily closed since early July.
 
 
Appeal Is Promised
 Doug Winters, a lawyer for the Township of Ypsilanti, said he would immediately appeal the decision to the Michigan Supreme Court. In a statement, Mr. Winters said, "the township firmly believes that it will ultimately prevail in its position that G.M. made a binding promise" to build cars in return for tax abatements "that it cannot breach with impunity."
The legal proceedings have come to resemble a condemned prisoner's efforts to fend off execution. Ms. Holmes declined to elaborate on whether the company was prepared to start production again, pending the State Supreme Court's decision on whether to hear a further appeal. "We are prepared to do what we have to do," she said.
The decision was a blow to Local 1776 of the United Automobile Workers, whose 2,500 members face losing their jobs. Union members have been living under a sword for nearly two years, since G.M. determined that it would operate only the Ypsilanti plant or the Arlington one. The decision in February by Judge Donald Shelton was a reprieve, but G.M. and many legal experts predicted then that it would not stand.
For the moment, the legal maneuvers have a practical benefit: members are still able to draw jobless benefits that approach full salaries.
The issue is whether G.M. promised Ypsilanti to continue production at the plant in return for a total of $13.5 million worth of tax abatements granted in 1984 and 1988. Judge Shelton ruled that G.M. had closed the plant to maximize production in Arlington, not because of insufficient demand for the models.
 
 
The Union's Theory
 Union officials had theorized that G.M. chose Arlington precisely because it was willing to add a third work shift and the Ypsilanti plant was not. G.M. declined to say exactly why it chose Arlington.
G.M. had tried to repay back taxes in an attempt to mollify the city and defuse the lawsuit, but Judge Shelton disallowed the move.
The three-justice appeals court ruled unanimously that statements by the auto maker that were interpreted as promises "were, instead, expressions of defendant's hopes or expectations of continued employment at Willow Run."
Mr. Williams said he was confident that the State Supreme Court would agree to hear the case and would reinstate Judge Shelton's ruling. "No one should step in the ring with a heavyweight if they do not expect to be hit a few times," he said in his statement. "In this case, the first round went to the township, the second round went to General Motors. There are many more rounds."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unless the Michigan Supreme Court reverses an appeal won by General Motors yesterday, the Willow Run assembly plant in Ypsilanti, Mich., will close as a result of a corporate effort to consolidate production. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (97%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); MICHIGAN SUPREME COURT (83%); MICHIGAN SUPREME COURT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MICHIGAN SUPREME COURT (83%); MICHIGAN SUPREME COURT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN; YPSILANTI (MICH); ARLINGTON (TEX) ; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (97%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS (LABOR) APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); APPEALS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); VERDICTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); DISMISSALS (74%); PETITIONS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); 

PERSON: ;LEVIN, DORON P MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



145 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Zero Hour for the Budget

 BODY:
The budget compromise that Congress will now vote on isn't as bold or inspiring as President Clinton asserted in his television address. But neither will it lead to the economic Dunkirk forecast by Bob Dole, the Senate minority leader. To the President's and the conference committee's credit, the plan would begin to bring the deficit monster under control without imposing undue harm on a fragile economy. Where the plan comes up short is in its failure to tilt public and private spending toward investment -- the key to long-term growth.
This budget does not embody the economic plan Bill Clinton ran on or the economic agenda he set forth in his compelling speech to a joint session of Congress in February. He promised then to stimulate the economy, to strengthen the country's economic base with innovative investment programs and to reduce the deficit through new taxes on the rich and cuts in Federal spending. Both the stimulus and the investment initiatives have all but disappeared, leaving a deficit reduction program. 
 But that program is coherent and fair; and while the plan does not promise salvation, a weary Congress would do a weary public a huge favor by passing it now, returning to unfinished business later on. A special burden falls on the balky Senate Democrats who, if all vote no, will torpedo the bill. Not one of them advances a sufficiently riveting principle to justify a negative vote. But their obstinacy could damage the economy and the vitality of their party and its leadership.
The compromise budget cuts deficits by almost $500 billion over five years, primarily by raising taxes on families earning more than $100,000 a year and raising taxes on everyone else by less than a dollar a week. It would cut defense spending by about $100 billion and Medicare by about $55 billion.
The conferees didn't preserve many of Mr. Clinton's investment initiatives because, to reach a compromise that could get past Senate Democrats, they scrapped the President's $70 billion broad-based energy tax and adopted instead a Senate-passed gas tax that would raise only $20 billion. The conferees made up the difference responsibly -- by chipping away at but not eviscerating the President's programs to provide new money for low-paid workers (including, for the first time, those without children), families on the verge of breaking up, childhood immunization, food stamps and economic development for urban slums.
The conferees made several unwise decisions. In a triumph of petty bookkeeping over economic good sense, they chose to impose more taxes this year, when the economy is limping along, than the Senate had proposed. They also approved several "temporary" tax breaks even though they know that Congress will almost surely extend them when they expire. Under the budget rules, that means Congress will then have to find offsetting spending cuts and taxes.
Finally, the proposed "cuts" in Medicare are essentially disguised tax hikes. Congress wouldn't cut benefits for retirees, but would reduce reimbursement for doctors and hospitals, which will be expected to make up the loss by raising fees for their non-Medicare, mostly middle-class patients.
The plan is not, contrary to Mr. Clinton's claims, a first step to a "national economic strategy." It's deficit reduction, pure and simple. But it would impose the burden of reducing the deficit on those most able to afford it. And it is far better than anything its opponents in either party have offered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); CHILDREN (68%); FUEL TAX (68%); MEDICARE (67%); SLUM DWELLINGS (50%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



146 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Embattled at the Source

BYLINE: By Robert F. Kennedy; Robert F. Kennedy is a lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Hudson Riverkeeper.

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
Last month, Mayor David Dinkins proposed a $720 million plan that could protect New York City's water supply for decades. This program has been rightly praised by environmental and community organizations for its emphasis on protecting drinking water at its source -- the 2,000 square miles of watershed land that surrounds the 18 city-owned reservoirs -- and for seeking a partnership with upstate communities and recognizing the high economic and social costs of pollution.
It is vital that the City Council support it when it votes on the Mayor's revised capital budget in September. A concerted short-term effort can save billions over the long haul. 
 The importance of keeping the water clean was reinforced by the outbreak of E. coli bacteria in the drinking water in various lower Manhattan neighborhoods last week. City officials believe that the outbreak was caused by contamination in a Westchester County reservoir.
Strong support of the Mayor's plan is essential if it is to clear a major hurdle. If the Environmental Protection Agency is not convinced by December that the city will protect its drinking water, the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act mandates that the water must be put through billion-dollar filtration systems.
The E.P.A. has wide discretion in deciding whether a filter system is needed, and the city must convince the agency that it will protect the water supply for the next 20 years.
The Mayor's program would set aside $272 million to acquire land around all 18 reservoirs to insulate them from pollution. The plan would also allocate $120 million to help towns that border the reservoirs to create their own protection programs, $230 million to hire technicians to insure that the facilities and communities are complying with environmental laws and $128 million to rebuild antiquated sewage plants upstate that may contaminate the supply.
By using existing surpluses from water and sewage fees, Mayor Dinkins and the Commissioner of Environmental Protection say they can deliver the program without violating a two-year moratorium on raising water rates.
Already, the city has spent more than $600 million to filter the water coming from its Croton Reservoir system in Westchester County -- where overdevelopment has polluted the supply. The remaining 90 percent of the city's drinking water -- from the Delaware and Catskill systems -- is naturally so pure that it doesn't require filtration. But the E.P.A., remembering failures of past city administrations to protect that water from contamination, is understandably skeptical about our ability to do so now.
If the agency decides against the Mayor's proposal, a filtration plant large enough to treat the Catskill and Delaware water would cost $8 billion -- more than one-fourth of the city's entire budget. Annual costs for operation and maintenance would be about $300 million.
And a filter plant does not guarantee pure water. Although it would remove most disease-bearing organisms from the city water, it would miss some: The outbreak of lethal cryptosporidium in Milwaukee this spring originated in filtered water. The filter would not remove many of the toxic and organic chemicals, as well as carcinogens like benzene and some pesticides, that would build up in unprotected reservoirs. Also, a giant filtration plant would take decades to build, leaving New Yorkers vulnerable in the interim.
To pay for the filter plant, the city would likely have to double water rates for most residential users. The costs would hit poor New Yorkers and their landlords particularly hard. Low-income dwellings tend to use more water than more affluent counterparts because they tend to house more people per unit, get more daytime use (because the residents are often unemployed) and are more likely to have leaky pipes.
Landlords who, because of rent-control laws, cannot pass increased water costs on to their tenants might slip into arrears on their water and sewer bills. Rate increases would cause some of them to abandon rent-controlled properties or other buildings with marginal profits, and the city would be forced to take ownership. City-owned buildings do not pay taxes or water bills; it costs the equivalent of the tax revenues from three private apartments to subsidize each city-owned unit. The city spends $200 million each year maintaining 40,000 housing units, and 50,000 more units in the city's poorest neighborhoods would be in jeopardy of being abandoned if water rates rose dramatically.
A traditional obstacle to a strong watershed protection program has been opposition by upstate communities to land-use and pollution controls. So the Dinkins administration is making sure these communities would be major beneficiaries of the new program.
Many of these towns draw their water from city aqueducts and profit from the city's efforts to keep it clean. In Westchester County, 80 percent of the water comes from the New York City supply. If the E.P.A. ordered the city to filter its water, these towns would be forced to build their own water treatment plants, which, because of economies of scale, would cause greater hardship to local residents than to the people of New York City.
Since the city pays taxes on the water system's land (it is the biggest taxpayer in the Catskills), local communities pocket this money without having to shoulder infrastructure improvements for water, sewer and schools. The plan's allotted $120 million partnership would help clean up local environmental problems and finance badly needed infrastructure improvements.
And the esthetic benefits of the green buffer lands, beautiful waterscapes and recreational fisheries would enhance local property values.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING WATER QUALITY (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); CITIES (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (87%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); E COLI (74%); BACTERIA (74%); UTILITY RATES (73%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, ROBERT F; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



147 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
President Hobson

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Thomas Hobson ran a rent-a-horse agency for the hard-riding scholars of Cambridge, England. His system was not customer-friendly: renters could take only the next available horse, thereby saving wear and tear on the more popular models. This led the poet Thomas Ward to coin a phrase in 1630: "Where to elect there is but one/ 'Tis Hobson's choice, -- take that or none."
President Clinton adopted Hobson's style in his Oval Office address the other night. "Now there are only two choices: our plan or no plan." He then zapped opponents of the Democratic plan as "guardians of gridlock." (I would have added an alliterative advance adjective, "grim," to convey the full nattering-nabobs-of-negativism flavor, but speech writers today are more restrained.) 
 There it is, my recalcitrant fellow Democrats, says President Hobson: Pass the leadership compromise or pass nothing. And if it's to be nothing, then the deficit and interest rates will soar and the stock market and the sky will fall.
But that's not the way the world of Washington works. Reality check:
Victorious Democrats decided to put forward an economic plan all their own, with tax increases starting back before the inauguration and promised reductions in the planned increases of spending starting three years out (unless something comes up). Because this is the opposite of what most voters want, Democratic leaders found it hard getting a tax-now, maybe-cut-later plan through the Democratic Congress.
That explains the tinkering and compromising: Clinton's initial leftward lurch has been modified to Congress's leftward lean. We are now down to the short strokes and Democratic leaders are pretending it's all or nothing.
That's unreal. If a further adjustment in the "final" plan is needed to win a handful of votes in the House, the Speaker has the leeway to make yet one more deal. If Senator Dennis DeConcini had refused to fall on his sword -- against the interests of his retired constituents in Arizona -- the majority leader could have found some special, last-minute legislative seduction to make Sam Nunn the new Democratic hero.
To paraphrase Yogi Berra, it's not over because it's never over. If the impossible happened, and the "final plan" were defeated on Friday, a new "final, final" plan would surely emerge next week or next month.
Don't be fooled by the outrageous "our plan or no plan"; Hobson doesn't live here anymore. Whatever Democratic budget ultimately passes will be "our plan" and be declared a famous victory.
With that firmly understood, it was a pleasure to see the President make a prime-time speech from the Oval Office, the opposition leader make a serious rebuttal, and the networks carry it all and the best newspapers print the texts. Gridlock, shmidlock; that's democracy in action.
Note that I just wrote, and you just read, "the President," meaning Bill Clinton, without straining. Oval office addresses, like East Room news conferences, do what talk shows and town-hall rallies cannot do: confer the ineffable heft of Presidentiality on a politician. The President sat there and quietly sought to persuade in an organized fashion, growing in stature before the nation's eyes.
No, he should not have aped Ross Perot in using the pitchman's charts; yes, he needs to learn how to modulate his voice and change his pace. But the speech was a creditable effort and his delivery has markedly improved.
Bob Dole's "four no's" were as negative as a series of no's usually are; the gallant rear guard must not let itself turn into the Old Guard. The Republican strategy -- to let the Democrats squeeze their own juice and stew in it -- is aimed at winning the Senate in '94, but cannot suffice for reclaiming the White House in '96. In coming rebuttals, the party should showcase Kemp, Alexander, Cheney, Wilson, Weld and other out-of-towners with no's in newer clothes.
The Democratic plan is quick to tax and slow to cut. That's a mistake liberals are born to make. For conservatives, the alternative is not to accept Hobson's choice, to say "O.K., then, no plan at all." Instead it's to say: "You guys won the election. Now fix your plan to reduce the deficit the way the electorate is ready to accept: Tax a little, cut a lot."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (73%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAX LAW (70%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



148 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Budget Plan Doesn't Do Enough

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Nine Wayward Democrats" (editorial, July 30) characterizes those Senate Democrats who have stopped to question the deficit-reduction package moving through a conference committee as irresponsible or "engaged in reckless personal aggrandizement." I disagree.
I do not have misgivings about the package because it has "gas taxes that are too high." I will support an increase in the gasoline tax, and those who quibble over a difference of a few cents therein are wasting time. 
 You are correct, on the other hand, to say that I object to "spending cuts that are too low." I believe that a majority of the Senate would support real, straightforward spending cuts. Several of my colleagues and I have asked Senator George Mitchell, the majority leader, to call a special session of Congress exclusively to cut the Federal budget.
But please remember how the country got into its budget mess. Throughout the early 1980's, Congress -- blinded by rhetoric of gridlock and economic crisis -- subverted its better judgment to that of a President whose budget proposals were economically suspect.
President Clinton's plan is ambitious and sincere. But it can be improved. And if it is as worthy as you say, surely it can sustain the debate you disparage.
 
BOB KERREY
U.S. Senator from Nebraska
Washington, July 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); FUEL TAX (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GASOLINE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); 

PERSON: KERREY, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



149 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Drug Treatment Referral in Criminal Courts Must Continue

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As judges assigned to Manhattan Criminal Court, we are confronted daily with defendants who have committed quality-of-life crimes, such as shoplifting, jumping subway turnstiles, tampering with public telephones, trespass, possession of small amounts of drugs, disorderly conduct. 
 Many of these defendants are addicted to narcotics. Imprisonment does not address the reasons they continue in their criminal conduct.
Recognizing this, members of the bench and court administration approached the Deputy Mayor's Office for Public Safety hoping to initiate an alternative to incarceration that could break the cycle of addiction and crime in certain cases. After a series of meetings, and with vital support from the Manhattan District Attorney, the result was a court treatment referral office at 100 Centre Street.
For the last year and a half, this office matched defendants with drug treatment programs throughout the city. To be placed in a program, a defendant had to commit himself or herself to treatment for up to one year. Offenders were interviewed by the office's sole staff member. If found qualified, they were enrolled in court-monitored drug treatment at outpatient and inpatient facilities. If an offender failed to complete treatment, he or she typically faced a substantial jail sentence.
We have just learned that the program is being effectively terminated. The program's one staff member has resigned and, citing a hiring freeze, the city will not replace him.
Since the entire annual budget of the referral office is less than the cost of maintaining two prisoners at Riker's Island for a year, this decision could not be more shortsighted. (Conservative estimates place the annual cost of incarceration of one individual at $35,000.)
Defendants who plead for treatment as an alternative to jail will now have to seek programs on their own, greatly reducing the likelihood of placement and making monitoring by the court much more difficult.
With judges and criminal justice experts across the country calling for more flexibility in sentencing for cases of nonviolent addiction-based crime, it is a terrible waste to turn our backs on an alternative that is in place. Ending this program, in the name of economy, is not cost-effective. Inevitably, the city will bear a much higher price in continued crimes and the cost of subsequent incarceration.
 
LAURA E. DRAGER
ARLENE GOLDBERG, RUTH PICKHOLZ
LAURA SAFER-ESPINOZA
New York, July 27, 1993
 
The letter was signed also by 10 other Manhattan Criminal Court judges.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: DRW8 (FRA) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5047 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DRAEGERWERK AG & CO KGAA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JUDGES (78%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (78%); SHOPLIFTING (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MISCONDUCT (73%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); MAYORS (71%); 

PERSON: DRAGER, LAURA E (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



150 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: New York City Fined Again on Homeless

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
Frustrated by lack of progress in housing homeless families, a state judge yesterday imposed a new round of fines on New York City and again held four top officials -- including two Deputy Mayors -- in contempt of court.
The ruling marked the second time since last November that the judge, Justice Helen E. Freedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, cited officials as individuals, a rare legal move aimed at prodding the city into action. She said in a 23-page decision that she would soon rule on whether to levy individual fines or even jail the officials for failing to provide prompt housing. 
 The decision "is indicative of the fact that the judiciary is sick and tired of excuses from city officials for violating court orders," said Steven Banks, coordinating lawyer for the Legal Aid Society's Homeless Family Rights Project, which filed the lawsuit. "For three and a half years, senior city officials have acted as if they were above the law and didn't have to comply."
 
Long Legal Battle
 Yesterday's ruling was the most recent action in a decadelong legal battle in which the court has tried -- through fines and individual accountability -- to force the city into reforming its vast bureaucracy serving the homeless.
In her decision, Justice Freedman raised the specter of jail or fines after citing a decision by the State Appellate Division last week barring her from her first choice: forcing the officials to spend a night in an emergency assistance unit, the city offices where homeless families apply for shelter and, against the court order, currently stay when shelter cannot be found.
O. Peter Sherwood, the city's Corporation Counsel, called the decision "counterproductive." He said the city has been working to restructure its massive and complex homeless system -- which cares for more than 5,000 families each night -- and has acted in good faith to meet her demands.
He said he was especially disturbed by Justice Freedman's decision to cite four officials individually: First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel; Cesar A. Perales, Deputy Mayor for Health and Human Services; Barbara J. Sabol, Administrator of the Department of Social Services, and Kenneth Murphy, Deputy Commissioner for Crisis Intervention Services.
"It's dramatic but frankly it serves no purpose other than to embarrass the men and women who have been working hard to resolve the problem," Mr. Sherwood said. "They are being held in contempt not for not trying but for not being wholly successful."
 
Money to Go to Families
 In her decision, Justice Freedman acknowledged their efforts and said she was actually "reluctant" to hold them in contempt.
"But the record of continuing and repeated violations leaves me with no choice," she wrote. "It is not a defense that the municipal defendants were attempting to comply or acting in good faith."
The order did not appear to expand or resolve the questions in the lawsuit, one of many legal actions aimed at improving services for the homeless. The fight has focused on the city's practice of housing some families in three city offices -- often overnight and longer -- when there is no space available in shelters.
What the order did do was impose new fines on the city for violating the order prohibiting it from keeping the families in the offices. Mr. Banks said he had documented some 7,000 violations involving thousands of families since last November.
It is too early to tally the cost of the fines, which would be paid to the families directly. The fine schedule is $100 to each family forced to remain in the offices from midnight until 8 A.M., $50 more past noon and $250 for each 24-hour period.
 
Fines and More Fines

 
The city is already saddled with another set of fines for the period from January to June 1992. This amount has not been tallied because the city is seeking to appeal the fine to the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court. But Thomas Crane, chief of the General Litigation Division of the Corporation Counsel's Office, said it could be as high as $1 million.
The ruling yesterday also switched one of the four officials named in the original order last November. Jeffrey L. Carples, a former H.R.A. deputy commissioner in charge of the shelter system, has been taken off the suit and replaced by Mr. Perales. Mr. Carples is now Mr. Perales's chief of staff.
An intriguing question raised by yesterday's order is whether Justice Freedman would take the drastic step of jailing any of the four officials, an option under state law. Mr. Sherwood said he could think of no case in the country in which a government official was jailed under similar circumstances.
Arguments on contempt penalties will begin in the next few weeks. In an interview, Justice Freedman declined to reveal her intentions but seemed hesitant about incarceration.
"All of these people are good, hard-working honest people," she said. "And they certainly don't deserve to go jail."
The city is also seeking to appeal to the Court of Appeals any individual fines.
 
Visit to Two Offices
 On July 13, Justice Freedman visited two of the offices where families are held after hearing that an average of 42 families a night were kept at the offices between July 1 and July 9. In her decision, she described children "doubled up in cribs, on the floors and in strollers." A number of people among the 48 to 60 families there appeared to be ill and there appeared to be few placements in shelters.
She said in an interview yesterday that her difficulty with the city was "an inability to really take hold of the situation one way or another."
Charles V. Raymond, Commissioner of the newly created Department of Homeless Services, said the city had been working diligently to overhaul the entire homeless system. The office is developing a long-term plan for more transitional and permanent housing, working to return homeless people to their families and trying to provide services to deal with mental illness, substance abuse and unemployment.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A subheading on Thursday with an article about a judge's order of fines against New York City and his finding of four officials in contempt over lack of progress in housing the homeless misattributed a quotation. It was the plaintiff's lawyer, Steven Banks, and not the judge, who said, "Senior city officials have acted as if they were above the law."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (56%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (56%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; HOUSING ; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINES (PENALTIES); HOUSING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES HOMELESSNESS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); VERDICTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CITIES (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); FAMILY (90%); JUDGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MAYORS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LEGAL AID (77%); LAWYERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PERALES, CESAR A (DEPUTY MAYOR); STEISEL, NORMAN (DEPUTY MAYOR); SABOL, BARBARA (COMR); MURPHY, KENNETH (DEPUTY COMR); SHERWOOD, O PETER (CORP COUNSEL) ; FREEDMAN, HELEN E (JUSTICE)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



151 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Clinton Plan's Economic Drag Cited

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Should the long end of the bond market rally when -- and if -- Congress approves President Clinton's deficit-reduction plan, he probably should not regard the buying as strictly investor applause.
In his televised address to the nation Tuesday night, the President used this year's bond market rally, which has pulled the yield on the 30-year bond down to its lowest level in 16 years, as a signal of approval from what he called "the most conservative and skeptical critics of all, those who run our financial markets." 
 But the reasons interest rates have been dropping are not, in general, the reasons Mr. Clinton has invoked to urge approval of the five-year budget plan: to reduce the deficit and to get the economy moving.
 
 
Opposite Reason
 In fact, rates are coming down partly for the opposite reason. Many analysts expect that the tax increases and spending reductions in the budget plan will restrain economic growth in the near future, which should make inflation less of a concern to investors. Inflation is the enemy of fixed-income investors because it nibbles away at their returns.
The fact that the plan calls for making an income tax increase on the so-called wealthy retroactive to Jan. 1 of this year will just add to that economic drag.
Another force pulling down the yield on the 30-year bond has nothing to do with the economy or the deficit. It is the supply factor: the Treasury has cut the annual sale of these bonds by about 40 percent and will begin auctioning them only two times a year, rather than its customary four times.
The planned deficit reduction, $496 billion over five years, is also regarded skeptically by some analysts and investors because many spending cuts would not become effective for several years. Also, the deficit would not be reduced significantly below current levels but rather just below the higher levels it would reach if no plan were approved.
 
 
'Subject to Question'
 "The deficit reduction impact of the Clinton plan is certainly subject to question," Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, said. "But it will put a drag on the economy and thereby prevent inflation from accelerating."
David Munro, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics and an analyst who has praised the deficit reduction plan, agreed that many analysts would cite the fiscal drag as a reason for a decline in interest rates. "The Republicans are going to be saying that, and not because they are being partisan but because it is their intuition," he said.
He argued that "it will be the passage of the uncertainty that will spark the market."
But Mr. Munro agreed that the deficit reduction in the Clinton plan was not large. "It is not so much deficit reduction as it is that at least we've got a bridle-on-the-horse type of thing," he said, adding that the benefit of the President's plan is that something is being done after many years of drifting.
Mr. Munro agreed that the plan's combination of tax increases and spending cuts would create a drag on the economy, but discounted its severity. He estimated that annual economic growth would be about one-quarter of a percentage point lower over the next several years than it would have been without the plan in place.
Mr. Fine said that the decline in interest rates this year, which the Clinton Administration has been counting on to spur the economy, would not be enough to offset the fiscal drag. "High interest rates are good at choking off activity but low interest rates are not as good at stimulating growth when things are slack," he said.
 
 
Treasury Market
 Treasury prices fell yesterday and yields rose as some investors worried about the outlook for approval of the deficit reduction package. But the plan's prospect improved after trading ended when Senator Dennis DeConcini, a Democrat of Arizona who had opposed the original plan the Senate approved, said that he would support this version.
The price of the 30-year bond was off 15/32 of a point as the yield rose to 6.55 percent, from 6.52 percent on Tuesday. The yield on the 10-year note jumped to 5.87 percent, from 5.79 percent the day before.
The Treasury announced the details of its quarterly auctions, saying it would raise a record $38.5 billion next week.
On Tuesday, the Treasury will auction $16.5 billion of 3-year notes, followed by $11 billion each of 10-year notes on Wednesday and 30-year bonds on Thursday. After next week, the 30-year bond will only be auctioned every six months.
The Treasury also said that it would continue its test of the single-price auction with two-year and five-year notes through next August. It had been scheduled to end in September, but the Treasury said it needed more data before it could decide if the technique would be used in other auctions.
Under the single-price auction all securities are awarded at the highest yield bid by primary dealers. It has resulted in both aggressive bidding that has saved the Treasury money and weak bidding that has cost the Treasury in the last year, according to traders.
Under the traditional auction system still being used for other Treasury securities, the securities are awarded based on the yields bid, starting with the lowest yield. This system has a so-called winner's curse, in which the low-yield bidder can pay more than other dealers whose higher bids are accepted.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Aug. 5 headed "Freddie Mac Yields," with an article about the previous day's trading in the credit markets, misstated average weekly yields on the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation's 30-year and 15-year participation certificates on fixed-rate mortgages. On Aug. 4, the yield on the 30-year certificates was 6.52 percent, not 7.25; the yield on the 15-year certificates was 6.18 percent, not 6.75. A chart updated for the current week, with corrected figures, appears today on page D16.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since April. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTEREST RATES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) ; INCOME TAX; AUCTIONS BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TAX INCREASES (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); AUCTIONS (86%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INCOME TAX (66%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993



152 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Victim's Cousin Accused of Killing Family

BYLINE: By CRAIG WOLFF

 BODY:
To people who knew him, John Camacho was a troubled young man who had received a golden chance to straighten out his life: the help of a cousin and her husband in Connecticut. The couple, Santa and Al Marquez, gave him advice, let him stay in their home and tried to keep him away from what they saw as his aimless life in Brooklyn.
But on Tuesday night Mr. Camacho, 22, was arrested and accused of killing the Marquezes and their children, Jonathan, 14, and Crystal, 6. The police charged another man, Luis Garcia, 22, with helping Mr. Camacho to take the bodies of Mrs. Marquez and her children last Friday from the family's home in South Windsor, Conn., to Brooklyn, where they were dumped by the East River. 
 Investigators in Connecticut and New York said that near the end of June, Mr. Marquez, frustrated in his efforts to help Mr. Camacho, ordered him out of the house.
"It's our understanding that he was in fact told to leave the house," said Sgt. Thomas C. Hart, a spokesman for the South Windsor police. Mr. Camacho, who is unemployed, stayed at the Y.M.C.A. in Hartford after that, the police said.
 
An Extended Family
 The killings struck an extended family that reaches from Connecticut to New York to Puerto Rico. Mr. Camacho was a second cousin of Mrs. Marquez and had known the couple all his life. Mr. Marquez, who was 48 and a supervisor in the Hartford Public Works Department, and Mrs. Marquez, 46, a nutritional counselor at Hartford Hospital, had long taken an interest in him, said Susana Ortiz, Mrs. Marquez's sister.
"We know there was a problem there," Ms. Ortiz said. "But really, this is hard to talk about. We're all so close."
Working on a tip, New York City detectives arrested Mr. Garcia, a messenger, early Tuesday morning near his home at 244 Bond Street in the Gowanus housing project in Brooklyn. He then led the police to Mr. Camacho, who was picked up early Tuesday evening at 28th Street and Seventh Avenue in Manhattan.
Mr. Camacho was charged with four counts of murder while Mr. Garcia was charged with hindering a prosecution and tampering with physical evidence.
 
Hearing Scheduled
 Late last night, Mr. Camacho and Mr. Garcia appeared before Judge Martin G. Karopkin in Criminal Court and contested a request for extradition. A preliminary hearing was set by Judge Karopkin for Aug. 17. A request for bail for Mr. Garcia was denied.
A young man outside Mr. Camacho's residence at 417 Baltic Street in Brooklyn, who would not give his name, said Mr. Camacho had graduated from John Jay High School in Park Slope. The man said Mr. Camacho had worked at odd jobs but had not had steady employment.
A neighbor who said her daughter grew up with Mr. Camacho and is his friend said, "He didn't cause nobody no trouble." She added that Mr. Camacho always showed "respect and manners." She also declined to give her name.
 
Gun Recovered
 Deputy Inspector John Lynch of Brooklyn detectives said that investigators found checkbooks and credit cards belonging to Mrs. Marquez at Mr. Garcia's apartment, as well as a .44-caliber handgun that they believe is the murder weapon. It was Mr. Garcia, the detectives said, who provided more details of the killings.
Investigators said that Mr. Camacho went to the Marquez family's home at 721 Kings Street in South Windsor on Friday evening, where he shot his victims several times.
He then called Mr. Garcia for help in removing the bodies, and made the two-hour trip to get him at about 9 P.M., the investigators said. They said that the pair returned to South Windsor and placed the bodies of Mrs. Marquez and her children in the family station wagon.
They dumped the bodies about 5 a.m. near the Brooklyn Navy Yard, the investigators said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Camacho was in custody yesterday in Brooklyn after his arrest on charges of killing a cousin, her husband and two children, who took him into their Connecticut home to try to salvage his life.; Luis Garcia after he was arrested yesterday on charges of helping to dump the bodies of three people who the authorities say were killed by John Camacho. (V&P News Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; SOUTH WINDSOR (CONN) UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS HOMICIDE (90%); FAMILY (90%); ARRESTS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); EVIDENCE (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); MURDER (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); JUDGES (64%); 

PERSON: WOLFF, CRAIG; MARQUEZ, SANTA; MARQUEZ, AL; MARQUEZ, CRYSTAL; MARQUEZ,
JONATHAN; GARCIA, LUIS (MURDER SUSPECT); CAMACHO, JOHN (MURDER SUSPECT) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993



153 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2183 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
HOUSE PASSES BUDGET PLAN, BACKING CLINTON BY 218-216 AFTER HECTIC MANEUVERING

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
After a day of frantic maneuvering to lock up the final votes, the House of Representatives narrowly approved President Clinton's five-year economic plan tonight, putting him on the verge of the most important victory of his young Presidency.
The vote, in doubt until the final gavel, was 218 to 216. All 175 Republicans voted against the measure, but they were joined by only 41 Democrats. The victory was provided by the 217 Democrats and one independent who stood with the President. 
 If only one more Democrat had voted with the opposition, the bill would have failed on a tie vote. The last two Democrats to vote and provide the margin of victory were Representatives Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky, a freshman who represents a heavily Republican district in the Philadelphia suburbs, and Pat Williams, who represents the entire state of Montana.
 
'Margin Was Close'
 All week long, Democratic leaders had predicted that the bill would pass but did not know whose votes would provide the margin of victory. As late as dinner time, the final votes were not in line.
President Clinton praised the House tonight for "putting the national interest ahead of the narrow interest."
Speaking from the South Portico of the White House to jubilant aides, Mr. Clinton declared, "The margin was close, but the mandate is clear."
Mr. Clinton ended his remarks by saying, "I congratulate those who voted, I urge the Senate to follow their lead, and I look forward to continuing the battle tomorrow."
 
Hinging on Kerrey
 In the Senate, the final vote, expected Friday night, hinges on the decision of the only Democrat Senator who has not announced his position, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia announced tonight that he would vote against the bill.
The Democrats hold a 56-to-44 majority in the Senate, and all the Republicans and six Democrats have now announced their opposition. If Mr. Kerrey votes for the measure, he would create a tie that could be broken in the President's favor by Vice President Al Gore. If Mr. Kerrey votes against it, the bill will fail.
The wrap-up of the debate tonight was one of the rare moments of real drama in Congress. Almost every representative was seated in the chamber. The galleries were full. Pages and staff assistants lined the walls. Leaders paced the aisles like sheep dogs keeping their flock in line.
The President's plan is not perfect, said the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley of Washington. But, he continued, "it is a critical beginning on that difficult road back."
Republicans, Mr. Foley said, were "marching in lock-step." He added, "We on this side must bear the burden of responsibility."
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader, said it was important "to see that the country we hand to the next generation is not as good but is better than the country that was handed to us."
 
'Change for the Worse'
 Republicans said their opposition was not a matter of partisanship but of principle.
"This debate defines the difference between Republicans and Democrats," said Representative Dick Armey, Republican of Texas. "Democrats believe prosperity comes from bigger Government. Republicans know it comes from ordinary people acting on behalf of themselves and their families."
The change President Clinton stands for, Mr. Armey said, is "change for the worse."
The White House and the Democratic leaders were forced to plead and deal all day and into the evening to keep enough Democrats in line for a majority.
To win a few votes from conservative Democrats, for example, they announced tonight that additional steps would be taken this fall to restrain, or at least appear to restrain, Government spending.
Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky and Mr. Williams had told their party leaders that they wanted to vote against the measure but would not do so if their votes were the margin of defeat, a leadership assistant said. Representative Ray Thornton of Arkansas, who voted "no," had said the same thing, so the leaders may have had one extra vote in reserve.
In the face of a solid Republican front, the Democratic unity was remarkable. Eighty-four percent voted with the President. The freshmen were on his side, 58 to 8. Twenty-two of 23 committee chairmen voted "yes," with only the Veterans' Affairs Committee chairman, G. V. (Sonny) Montgomery of Mississippi, against the President. Subcommittee chairmen held ranks, 82 to 12.
The final bill as it came out of the Congressional blender was different in significant aspects from the program the President proposed last February. Most important, Congress rejected a broad tax on nearly all forms of energy and substituted a modest increase in the Federal gasoline tax, the only new tax that most people would owe.
Some of Mr. Clinton's proposals to spend more on various Government programs and to give tax breaks to business to strengthen the economy were also turned down.
But in most respects the bill followed the President's prescription for lowering the Federal budget deficit, reducing military spending and placing a much larger portion of the tax burden on the well-off.
Mr. Clinton and his supporters in Congress stressed that 80 percent of the new taxes would be paid by taxpayers with incomes above $200,000 and that 90 percent would be paid by those with incomes above $100,000.
The legislation would lower the annual budget deficit by a total of $496 billion over the next five years, with $241 billion coming from tax increases and $255 billion from spending cuts.
The national debt, the accumulation of all the deficits over the years, would continue to rise by about $1 trillion over the five years. That is because the annual deficit, now about $300 billion, would still be close to $200 billion at the end of five years. In the absence of any budget cuts, the deficit in that period would rise by about $1.5 trillion.
The central elements of the bill would raise the tax rates on upper-income taxpayers, increase the Federal tax on gasoline by 4.3 cents a gallon, reduce military spending and limit the explosive growth in Medicare spending.
 
Views on the Record
 The latest calculations by Congressional statisticians of how much additional taxes various income groups would bear show that taxpayers with incomes over $200,000 would have an average tax increase of 5.4 percent. In no other category would the tax increase be more than 1 percent, and taxpayers with incomes below $20,000 would, on average, get a tax cut.
The tax cut at the low end of the income range would result from a large increase in the earned-income tax credit, a program that gives a tax break -- and in some instances rebates -- to workers who are poor or have incomes just above the poverty line.
Democrats called this provision the most important anti-poverty measure since the 1970's.
For more than eight hours, representatives trooped one at a time to the well of the House to speak for a minute or two about the bill. It was not so much a debate as a chance for the legislators to get their views on the record and on television.
The speeches were generally predictable, the Democrats calling for change and the Republicans decrying tax increases. But some were quite pointed.
Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the ranking Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, said the tax increases in the Democratic program would amount to "a job-killing poison for the economy."
"Try to soak the rich," Mr. Archer continued, "and you drown middle-income men and women."
But the Democrats held their ground. Representative John Lewis of Georgia said the Republicans were not seriously interested in governing. "They just said no," he asserted.
At the outset, Representative Martin Olav Sabo, the Minnesota Democrat who heads the Budget Committee, told his colleagues: "This package represents the opportunity of a lifetime to turn this country around. There will never be a better time to do it. It will get harder, not easier, if we put it off."
And Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the chief Democrat on tax issues, put it this way: "The American people elected Bill Clinton to lead and change the direction of our country. The President has faced that responsibility squarely and asks us to support this plan. Now it is time to govern. The President has my vote -- with pride. He deserves yours, too."
 
Action in Back Rooms
 While these speeches were delivered in public, the real action was in the back rooms and on the telephone.
Mr. Clinton mostly cleared most of his schedule so he could spend the day on the telephone calling Representatives. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen spent most of the day in the Capitol, meeting with recalcitrant Democrats. So did Leon E. Panetta, the budget director, and Thomas F. McLarty 3d, the White House chief of staff.
A Rose Garden ceremony honoring teachers was delayed for about 15 minutes, and the President could be seen through the French doors on the telephone in the Oval Office.
"What I keep trying to tell all the members is that this is the beginning of the process, not the end," Mr. Clinton said. "There is a whole lot more work to be done. We've just been here seven months. Finally, they've got somebody here who's serious about responsible budgeting instead of just talking about it."
Secretary Bentsen's pitch to lawmakers, a Texas Democrat said, was that if a representative votes against the package and it passes, that might be good politics. But if the vote is cast against it and it is defeated, it could be disastrous politically. The economy could turn south, and the representative would be blamed.
Democratic leaders and Administration officials helping with the vote count said at midafternoon that 207 Democrats were committed to vote "yes," 11 votes shy of a majority.
 
Tension in the Senate
 Across the Capitol in the Senate, the tension was equally thick. This morning, only 98 Senators had announced their positions: 49 for and 49 against. But then Senator Nunn made his decision, so if Senator Kerrey votes in favor, Mr. Gore can break the tie in the President's favor. But Mr. Kerrey was saying nothing.
Senators operate on such a high plane that they rarely meet with representatives except in conference committees to settle legislation. But Mr. Kerrey, who wants a special session of Congress to address further spending cuts, had an unusual meeting with Mr. Foley on Wednesday night to press his case.
Senate leaders would probably go along with the special session, but Mr. Foley opposes it.
The concessions made by the Democratic leaders tonight to win the votes of conservative Democratic representatives could meet Mr. Kerrey's needs.
The leaders agreed that in September, the House would vote on a measure intended to limit the growth of entitlement programs, that the White House would submit a bill this fall to rescind some spending that had already been approved and that the House would take up a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget if the Senate approved one first.
 
Kerrey's Ties to Moynihan
 The suspicion in the Capitol that Senator Kerrey would vote for the bill was grounded largely in his close relationship with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who, as head of the Finance Committee, is heavily responsible for writing the budget bill.
Mr. Moynihan went out of his way last year to support Mr. Kerrey's attempt to win the Democratic Presidential nomination, and the view among politicians is that Mr. Kerrey has a debt to pay.
An Administration official put it this way: "I can't believe that if at the darkest hour, Moynihan says, 'Bob, I'm calling my chit,' Kerrey won't go along. That's powerful."
Most of the attention surrounding the budget bill has been on taxes. The bill would raise the top tax rate, now 31 percent, to 36 percent for single taxpayers on taxable incomes ranging from $115,000 to $250,000 and for couples with taxable incomes from $140,000 to $250,000. The rate on taxable incomes above $250,000 would be 39.6 percent.
Workers with taxable income below those amounts would have no change in their income taxes. But retired people with incomes as low as $34,000 could face an income tax increase because of the proposed treatment of taxes on Social Security benefits.
Taxable income is what is left after deductions and personal exemptions are subtracted from adjusted gross income.
But beyond the tax increases are some important spending cuts.
A freeze would be placed for the next five years on all Government programs financed by annual appropriations. That means that if spending is increased, say, on education, it must be reduced for some other program.
All taxes and entitlement programs -- like Social Security, Medicare, welfare and farm price supports, which pay benefits to everyone who is eligible for them -- would be on a pay-as-you-go basis. That means that if benefits are raised or taxes cut, they must be offset by raising another tax or cutting another benefit.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leon E. Panetta, the budget director, and House Speaker Thomas S. Foley speaking at a news conference last night after the vote. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Leon E. Panetta, the budget director, congratulating Representative Timothy J. Penny of Minnesota, who voted for the deficit-reduction plan. Behind them was Representative Newt Gingrich, the Republican whip. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) (pg. A15)
 
Graph: "Projecting Deficit Relief" shows the budget deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product, with projected effect of proposed budget plan from '80-'98. ('93-'98 are estimated). (Source: Office of Management and Budget) (pg. A15)
 
Table: "How Taxes Would Change"
 Here is the Joint Committee on Taxation's estimate of the effect the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 would have on taxes.

	Average	Income*	Tax Change	Less than $10,000	-1.28%	10,000 to 20,000	-0.30	20,000 to 30,000	+0.02	30,000 to 40,000	+0.21	40,000 to 50,000	+0.29	50,000 to 75,000	+0.39	75,000 to 100,000	+0.54	100,000 to 200,000	+0.86	200,000 and over	+5.39	Total all Taxpayers	+0.97	
 
*For this chart, income includes adjusted gross income plus: tax-exempt interest, employer contributions for health plans and life insurance, employer share of FICA tax, workers' compensation, nontaxable Social Security benefits, insurance value of Medicare benefits, corporate income tax liability attributed to stockholders, alternative minimum tax preference items and excluded income of U.S. citizens living abroad.
 
(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) ; INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; MARGOLIES-MEZVINSKI, MARJORIE (REPR); WILLIAMS, PAT (REPR); KERREY, BOB (SEN); NUNN, SAM (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (73%); AL GORE (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



154 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Begins Taking Message to the Airwaves

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
After months of intermittent skirmishing, Rudolph W. Giuliani has moved the New York City mayoral campaign into the very-high-frequency war that really counts: paid television and radio advertising that starts by portraying the former prosecutor as a warm, regular guy in an effort to pre-empt Mayor David N. Dinkins's stepped-up attacks on him.
The silent tag line on one of his TV commercials reads: "He'll fight as hard for you and your family as he does for his own." 
 For most New Yorkers, it means the beginning of intensive exposure to the campaign, and it puts Mr. Giuliani's paid message on the air unusually early, especially since the Republican-Liberal candidate has repeatedly resisted being drawn into a head-to-head contest with the Democratic Mayor before the Sept. 14 primary.
His move marks a shift to more aggressive tactics and starts a high-cost war of nerves because the conventional wisdom is that once candidates begin television ads, they should maintain some presence on the air throughout the rest of the race.
The commercials -- a mix of unscripted 30-second and 60-second appearances featuring the candidate and his family -- began airing last night. One shows Mr. Giuliani sitting in Carl Schurz Park near his apartment on the Upper East Side, looking into the camera and saying that while most people know he was a prosecutor and came close to winning the last election, "They don't know about the most important part of my life: My wife, Donna, and my two children, Andrew and Caroline."
Over pictures of Caroline, who is nearly 4, blowing big soap bubbles, the candidate continues: "Donna and I feel very strongly that Andrew and Caroline should grow up in New York, like I did, but in order to make that possible," parks and playgrounds and schools must be improved. "We're just letting those kids down, and we've got to really change it and fight back for New York City."
Another commercial shows a casually dressed Mr. Giuliani talking about economic development, job creation and small business as statistics are displayed on the screen.
In contrast to the prevailing practice, David Garth, Mr. Giuliani's chief strategist, refused to say when or where the commercials would be broadcast, or to release copies of the videotapes or scripts in advance. He said the radio ads were to begin today.
"I don't want my spots interpreted by the media," said Mr. Garth, who said they were intended to counter what he views as incomplete, unfair coverage of Mr. Giuliani in routine news accounts that have largely ignored the race between Mr. Dinkins and his primary challenger, Roy E. Innis, national chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality. "I want them interpreted by the voter."
In recent years television news organizations and newspapers have taken to running detailed analyses of campaign ads, weighing the accuracy and intent of their claims. (For example, Mr. Giuliani moved from Brooklyn to the Long Island suburbs when he was 7, and commuted back to attend high school).
Mr. Garth, who is known for tactical moves aimed at stirring the pot, said he wanted to paint his own pictures: "This is very important. There's a feeling that Rudy is just a tough prosecutor. He's much more. This is one percent of the campaign. It'll build. Basically speaking, this is getting him out there."
Media buyers said a check of broadcast logs showed that the television ads were scheduled to run through Monday, at an estimated cost of $67,000, a relatively small purchase and enough to be seen just once by the typical viewer. The Dinkins camp was quick to dismiss the ads as a tactical effort to call attention to a campaign that is not moving swiftly enough. The Mayor's campaign declined to reveal anything about its own advertising plans.
Of the Giuliani campaign, the Mayor's media adviser, Robert Shrum, said, "They hoped and expected to be doing better at this point than they are."
"Giuliani's attempt to make political capital out of the Crown Heights report didn't work very well, so they're doing this," he added, referring to the recent report on the state inquiry into the Mayor's handling of four days of black-Jewish violence in Brooklyn in 1991.
That may be so, since polls taken after the release of the report showed that the overall race remained a virtual toss-up. But the surveys also showed that Mr. Dinkins had lost support among white voters, especially Jews, while gaining among black voters. Giuliani backers argue that this means momentum has moved their way more than the broad horse-race numbers would indicate.
Mr. Garth said the initial commercials would be followed by another of his trademarks: ordinary New Yorkers talking spontaneously about the city and his candidate.
 
Attacks Intensified
 After months of largely quiet tolerance of criticism by Mr. Giuliani, the Mayor has recently intensified his attacks on his challenger, branding him as a cold-hearted ally of those Republican Federal officials whose policies the Mayor said had deprived the city of badly needed aid, and as a fast-talking waffler on issues who does not have "the temperament" to lead the city.
On Wednesday night at a forum on housing issues in which Mr. Giuliani followed the Mayor to the same platform for the first time of the campaign, Mr. Giuliani retaliated by accusing the Mayor of failing to take prompt or decisive steps to alleviate the problems of the city's homeless.
Yesterday Mr. Dinkins picked up an endorsement from the Speaker of the State Assembly, Saul Weprin of Queens, the second prominent Jewish politician to endorse the Mayor this week. On Wednesday, he was lauded by former Mayor Abraham D. Beame, the city's first Jewish mayor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; RADIO; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); MAYORS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHILDREN (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



155 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11
 
SERBS ANNOUNCE A PULLBACK
Serbian forces announced a pullback from newly won territory on two strategic mountains outside Sarajevo, apparently fearing NATO air strikes. A1
 
U.S. SEEKS BROADER AIR STRIKES
The United States is pressing its allies to broaden NATO's threatened air strikes against Serbs to include roads, bridges, supply depots and military command posts, senior officials said. A8
 

WILL NATO CARRY OUT THREAT?
News analysis: Having agreed to American demands for air strikes against the Bosnian Serbs unless they end the siege of Sarajevo, NATO must now decide whether to carry out the threat. A8
 
BOSNIA TALKS ARE POSTPONED
President Alija Izetbegovic, Bosnia's Muslim leader, refused to compromise in the stalled Bosnia peace talks, forcing the mediators to suspend the talks until Monday. A8
 
ISRAELI MEETING WITH P.L.O.
An Israeli Cabinet Minister has met secretly with a senior Palestine Liberation Organization member, shattering a long taboo. A1
 
CHRISTOPHER RETURNING TO SYRIA
On the third day of his trip to the Middle East, Secretary of State Warren Christopher announced that he was returning to Damascus for a second round of talks. A6
 
A KING DAVID DISCOVERY
An Israeli archeologist has discovered a fragment of a stone monument with inscriptions bearing the first known reference outside the Bible to King David and the dynasty he founded. A1
 
BLASTS ROCK CHINESE CITY
Huge explosions shook Shenzhen, in southern China, killing as many as 70 people and shattering windows for miles around. A3
 
JAPAN PARTY THWARTS COALITION
The Liberal Democratic Party may have lost its 38-year grip on power but, in its new opposition role, it prevented the election of a new prime minister and deflated hopes for a coalition government. A10
 
NEW DIFFICULTIES FOR JAPAN
Japan's hopes for an economic rebound may be dashed by sharp currency swings in Europe. A10
 
Mandela assails followers over township violence. A3
 
Rash of spy charges in Germany's capital. A2
 
Peru may extend the death penalty to terrorists. A11
 
National A12-18
 
HOUSE PASSES BUDGET
During a day of frantic maneuvering, the House of Representatives passed the President Clinton's five-year economic plan, 218 to 216. A1
 
Most Americans simply do not believe the Clinton budget is fair. A14
 
A GOOD TIME WAS NOT HAD
Five hours before the vote, Democrats were well shy of the 219 members they needed to send the budget to its bungee jump, in the Senate. Nobody was smiling. A1
 
CUBAN PILOT MAY BE INDICTED
In a rare instance of cooperation with Cuba, Federal officials are pursuing criminal charges against a pilot who commandeered a Cuban plane and 52 passengers. A12
 
INDIANS CONSIDER NUCLEAR WASTE
The Mescalero Apache tribe says it wants "credible, formal discussions" about possibly storing high-level nuclear waste on its reservation in New Mexico. A12
 
GIRL ASKS DIVORCE FROM PARENTS
Kimberly Mays made a tearful plea to be freed from her biological parents, breaking down as she told a court about the day five years ago when she found out she had been switched at birth. A12
 
PLIGHT OF FLOODED FARMERS
For one devastated Midwestern farm family, this year's harvest is a wipeout, and next year's depends on rebuilding failed earthen levees before spring planting. A16
 
PLIGHT OF PARCHED FARMERS
After three months of record-breaking heat and virtually no rain, the South's farmers are surrounded by stunted crops, hungry livestock and the worst drought in memory. A16
 
OREGON APPROVES HEALTH PLAN
The Oregon Legislature approved a plan to expand Medicaid to 120,000 of the state's poor and to require employers to provide insurance for their workers. A18
 
Former White House workers are no longer targets of an inquiry. A15
 
No vote on Clinton's surgeon general nominee before September. A15
 
An autopsy confirms suicide in White House counsel's death. A15
 
Law Page B6
 
Behind the Los Angeles beating sentence: guidelines and sympathy.
 
A successful lawyer in the glare of a harassment trial.
 
At the Bar: 60 years later, still looking for Judge Crater.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
FAMILY HELP PROGRAMS FAULTED
As Congress considers pouring more money into family preservation programs, researchers' recent evidence suggests that such programs have not lived up to their name. A1
 
MAYORAL RACE HITS THE AIRWAVES
After months of intermittent skirmishing, Rudolph W. Giuliani is moving the New York City mayoral campaign into the very-high-frequency war that really counts: paid television and radio advertising. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-30
 
Visiting Edison's lab and home. C1
 
Film: "The Fugitive." C1
 
Restaurants A20
 
Art: Outdoor sculpture. C1
 
Television: TV Weekend D15
 
Sports B8-14
 
Baseball: Yankees beat the Blue Jays, 5-4. B9
 
Basketball: Doctor says more testing was planned for Lewis. B9
 
Obituaries B7
 
Theodore A. Parker and Alwyn Gentry, biologists.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
 
Editorials
 
Handling a campus demagogue.
 
Sleuths at sea.
 
False fear of automated tolls.
 
Topics: Too many bureaucrats.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: A tale of two cities.
 
James Grant: The would-be rich vs. the truly rich.
 
John H. Makin: A budget that will backfire.
 
Lincoln Caplan: The lawyers' race to the bottom.
 
Chronicle A22
 
Crossword 29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); JAPAN (93%); SERBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (69%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (83%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (83%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); JAPAN (93%); SERBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (69%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); RELIGION (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); TERRORISM (65%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (62%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (61%); INDICTMENTS (61%); NUCLEAR WASTE (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



156 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: Political Memo;
The Public Is Confused, And Getting Suspicious

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
From Joan N. Baggett, the White House political director, it was a frank admission of reality: As hard as President Clinton tried in his address on Tuesday to portray his budget package as fair, most Americans simply don't believe him.
"My husband said after watching both the President and Senator Dole's response, 'No wonder people are cynical and turned off to Government: You have the President telling them one thing and Senator Dole telling them the exact opposite,' " Ms. Baggett said. "When there's that much confusion, voters have reason to be suspicious." 
 In his speech on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton said his plan would cut the deficit by nearly $500 billion over five years. Mr. Dole said the national debt would rise by $1 trillion. They were both right, though neither would give the other credit for it.
Even if the Clinton plan was to achieve all of its advertised potential, it might do little to end confusion about the nation's finances and restore faith in Washington. Despite the spending cuts and tax increases the President is pushing, the measure would not eliminate budget deficits, merely trim them. As Senator Dole pointed out, the Government would still rely on borrowed money -- and this kind of deficit spending, no matter how small, increases the national debt.
In fact, by 1998 the package would throw $1 trillion onto the debt. In other words, the problem is only going to get worse.
The immediate challenge for Mr. Clinton and the Democrats is to overcome a widespread perception, fueled by the Republicans, that the budget package amounts to a gigantic tax-and-spend extravaganza that would do little good for the economy.
 
Skeptical Middle Class
 To counter such a view, Mr. Clinton has repeated this mantra: no new income taxes for the middle class. Hours before the crucial voting began in the House this evening, fax machines in Democratic offices on Capitol Hill were getting the latest "talking points" from the White House: "The President has always been clear and direct on raising taxes on the top 1 percent."
The message may be accurate, but it is one that the middle class, to a large degree, is not buying, according to polls taken before and after the President's speech.
The White House's failure to change this skepticism is a large factor in the close vote on Mr. Clinton's budget, despite Democratic majorities in both houses.
One reason that Mr. Clinton's message has not caught on is that he and Democratic leaders, distracted in part by doomed nominations, did not start the selling drive that was necessary until recently. But more fundamentally, people have grown distrustful of a Government that has not delivered on its promises of a balanced budget in return for sacrifice.
Remember President Ronald Reagan's inaugural address in 1981, when he declared that continuing decades of deficit spending would "guarantee tremendous social, cultural, political and economic upheavals"? He vowed to balance the budget by 1984. Remember President George Bush's tax increase in 1990? It was supposed to eliminate the deficit by 1996.
"We've been fooled so long that you have to laugh -- or cry," said Paul Hoover, a retired railroad worker from Bellefonte, Pa., who voted for Mr. Clinton last year but says he now feels betrayed by a President who let Congress weaken his economic program. "I don't trust any of them in Congress any more."
Though he is a Democrat, Mr. Hoover, 72, said he sided with Mr. Dole, the Senate Republican leader who contends that the package amounts to an unfair tax increase. "There need to be more cutbacks in the Government -- not the people but the Government," he said.
Gil Bond, a 25-year-old forklift driver from Wallkill, N.Y., who voted for Ross Perot, said he simply did not believe Mr. Clinton's contention that people in his income range would not end up paying more taxes. "I've heard that one before," he said. "Raising the gas tax has got to hurt the lower man. Clinton's not taxing the rich. He's still hammering us. And where are all the jobs he's supposed to create?"
Mr. Bond and Mr. Hoover were among the 35 percent of the 621 Americans who told CBS News, in a survey after the President's speech to the nation Tuesday, that they hope their representatives oppose the plan. Forty percent wanted their representative to vote for it. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
 
Seeing Trouble Ahead
 It is Democrats like Mr. Hoover who terrify White House officials. If he is so pessimistic about the package, what chance does Mr. Clinton have to win over a probably more skeptical group, the 19 percent who voted for Ross Perot?
Although he has refused to detail how he would do this, Mr. Perot has proposed two things that many economists say are absolutely essential to controlling the deficit but which the political parties are loath to do: Significantly raise taxes (which Republicans refuse to do) and significantly cut spending (which Democrats refuse to do).
Instead, many Democrats have sought to blame the package's troubles on botched public relations.
David Wilhelm, the Democratic Party chairman who had been criticized for letting the Republicans depict the President as trying to finance lawmakers' needless pet projects through his withdrawn bill to stimulate the economy, said the party had fought back. But he said the effort had been harder than expected, and he sought to lay the blame on past Republican administrations.
"We're forced to deal with a lot of very justified skepticism," he said. "People don't believe that the deficit is real because they've had 12 years of rosy scenarios and blue smoke and mirrors."
The nervousness over perceptions does not stem only from worries over whether the budget package will be enacted; at stake is how people perceive Mr. Clinton over time.
"We do believe that these defining budget and economic votes have a character to them that lives with you for years," said Stanley Greenberg, the President's pollster. "To this day, people remember George Bush for breaking 'read my lips' and taxing the middle class."
With all the Democrats' anxiety over why they have not been more successful in altering perceptions, one basic principle has been obscured: Americans may detest gridlock, they may despise the deficit, but nothing seems to bother them more than a tax increase.
"It's easy to say that one side got its message out and the other side has not," said John Alford, a political scientist at Rice University. "But the notion of any taxation is just a difficult message to carry."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



157 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The House approved President Clinton's budget plan, putting him on the verge of the most important victory of his young Presidency. The vote, in doubt almost until the final gavel, was 218 to 216. The victory was provided by 217 Democrats and one independent. The final vote in the Senate, expected tonight, hinges on the decision of the only Democratic Senator who has not announced his position, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. [Page A1.] 
 Factory orders rebounded in June, gaining 2.6 percent, after three consecutive monthly declines. Also, the number of Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits fell last week by 60,000, despite the fact that more flood victims showed up at unemployment claims offices. [D2.]
The nation's retailers reported mixed sales results for July, with overall sales up an estimated 8.6 percent from July 1992 and 2 percent from June. [D3.]
Local phone companies may have less to fear than they thought from the F.C.C.'s vote to expand competition. News Analysis. [D2.]
 
Markets
Gold prices plunged at least $22 an ounce in a frenzied day of trading. Investors dumped holdings amid rumors of sales by China's central bank and the easing of Europe's currency crisis. [D1.]
The stock market meandered indecisively in a narrow range, as it awaited the vote on the Clinton budget plan. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 3.08 points, to 3,548.97. [D4.]
Treasury prices advanced. The 30-year bond rose 14/32 of a point, to yield 6.52 percent. [D13.]
The dollar hit another postwar low against the yen, fetching 103.85 yen in midday trading in New York. In later trading, the dollar stood at 104.05 yen. The previous record low, touched on Tuesday, had been 104 yen. [D14]
 
International
The United States and Canada settled a five-year-old trade dispute over beer sales. Also, new details emerged about the Clinton Administration's plan to create a joint agency with the Mexican Government to clean up the United States-Mexico border region. [D1.]
Japanese hopes for a rebound from deep recession may be dashed by the sharp rise in the exchange value of the yen. Unlike in much of Europe, where recent currency turmoil is likely to spur export sales, exports from Japan will cost more abroad. [A10.]
 
Companies
Delta Air Lines' fares cuts were matched by rivals, who added three weeks to the start of the sale. Delta had hoped to get past the busy Labor Day weekend before putting the discounts into effect on Sept. 15, but its rivals countered by allowing travel beginning Aug. 23. Delta then agreed to the earlier date. [D1.]
British Telecommunications and MCI reached definitive agreements on an alliance to offer global networks for multinational corporations, and named a chief for the venture. [D3.]
DNA Plant Technology's test-market results of its premium tomato were three times greater than expected. [D3.]
Richard Branson vowed to fight for the right to open his Virgin Megastore record and book shop in Paris on Sundays, despite the threat of huge fines if he continues to defy French law. [D3.]
Arthur Andersen agreed to pay $82 million to settle Government claims that negligent audits contributed to the collapse of several savings institutions. [D10.]
 
Today's Columns
Guess? Inc.'s prospectus for a private debt offering provides a rare peek into a private company. Market Place. [D1.]
Saatchi & Saatchi loses a $20 million cellular telephone account. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); BOND MARKETS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BONDS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); US LABOR DAY (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); JAPANESE YEN (70%); RETAILERS (69%); FLOODS & FLOODING (69%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (68%); GOLD MARKETS (68%); BANKING IN CHINA (66%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%); TRADE DISPUTES (61%); AIRLINES (60%); BEER & ALE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



158 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
How the House Voted on Clinton's Five-Year Economic Plan

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
Following is the 218-to-216 roll call by which the House of Representatives today approved President Clinton's deficit-reduction bill. A "yes" vote is a vote for the bill. Voting yes were 217 Democrats and one independent. Voting no were 41 Democrats and 175 Republicans. Y is a "yes" vote. N is a "no" vote. There is one vacancy in the 435-member House.
 
ALABAMA
Democrats -- Bevill, Y; Browder, N; Cramer, Y; Hilliard, Y.
Republicans -- Bachus, N; Callahan, N; Everett, N.
 
ALASKA
Republicans -- Young, N.
 
ARIZONA
Democrats -- Coppersmith, N; English, Y; Pastor, Y.
Republicans -- Kolbe, N; Kyl, N; Stump, N.
 
ARKANSAS
Democrats -- Lambert, Y; Thornton, N.
Republicans -- Dickey, N; Hutchinson, N.
 
CALIFORNIA
Democrats -- Becerra, Y; Beilenson, Y; Berman, Y; Brown, Y; Condit, N; Dellums, Y; Dixon, Y; Dooley, N; Edwards, Y; Eshoo, Y; Farr, Y; Fazio, Y; Filner, Y; Hamburg, Y; Harman, Y; Lantos, Y; Lehman, N; Martinez, Y; Matsui, Y; Miller, Y; Mineta, Y; Pelosi, Y; Roybal-Allard, Y; Schenk, Y; Stark, Y; Torres, Y; Tucker, Y; Waters, Y; Waxman, Y; Woolsey, Y.
Republicans -- Baker, N; Calvert, N; Cox, N; Cunningham, N; Doolittle, N; Dornan, N; Dreier, N; Gallegly, N; Herger, N; Horn, N; Huffington, N; Hunter, N; Kim, N; Lewis, N; McCandless, N; McKeon, N; Moorhead, N; Packard, N; Pombo, N; Rohrabacher, N; Royce, N; Thomas, N.
 
COLORADO
Democrats -- Schroeder, Y; Skaggs, Y.
Republicans -- Allard, N; Hefley, N; McInnis, N; Schaefer, N.
 
CONNECTICUT
Democrats -- DeLauro, Y; Gejdenson, Y; Kennelly, Y.
Republicans -- Franks, N; Johnson, N; Shays, N.
 
DELAWARE
Republicans -- Castle, N.
 
FLORIDA
Democrats -- Bacchus, Y; Brown, Y; Deutsch, Y; Gibbons, Y; Hastings, Y; Hutto, N; Johnston, Y; Meek, Y; Peterson, Y; Thurman, Y.
Republicans -- Bilirakis, N; Canady, N; Diaz-Balart, N; Fowler, N; Goss, N; Lewis, N; McCollum, N; Mica, N; Miller, N; Ros-Lehtinen, N; Shaw, N; Stearns, N; Young, N.
 
GEORGIA
Democrats -- Bishop, Y; Darden, Y; Deal, N; Johnson, Y; Lewis, Y; McKinney, Y; Rowland, N.
Republicans -- Collins, N; Gingrich, N; Kingston, N; Linder, N.
 
HAWAII
Democrats -- Abercrombie, Y; Mink, Y.
 
IDAHO
Democrats -- LaRocco, Y.
Republicans -- Crapo, N.
 
ILLINOIS
Democrats -- Collins, Y; Costello, Y; Durbin, Y; Evans, Y; Gutierrez, Y; Lipinski, N; Poshard, Y; Reynolds, Y; Rostenkowski, Y; Rush, Y; Sangmeister, Y; Yates, Y.
Republicans -- Crane, N; Ewing, N; Fawell, N; Hastert, N; Hyde, N; Manzullo, N; Michel, N; Porter, N.
 
INDIANA
Democrats -- Hamilton, Y; Jacobs, Y; Long, N; McCloskey, Y; Roemer, N; Sharp, Y; Visclosky, Y.
Republicans -- Burton, N; Buyer, N; Myers, N.
 
IOWA
Democrats -- Smith, Y.
Republicans -- Grandy, N; Leach, N; Lightfoot, N; Nussle, N.
 
KANSAS
Democrats -- Glickman, Y; Slattery, Y.
Republicans -- Meyers, N; Roberts, N.
 
KENTUCKY
Democrats -- Baesler, N; Barlow, Y; Mazzoli, Y; Natcher, Y.
Republicans -- Bunning, N; Rogers, N.
 
LOUISIANA
Democrats -- Fields, Y; Hayes, N; Jefferson, Y; Tauzin, N.
Republicans -- Baker, N; Livingston, N; McCrery, N.
 
MAINE
Democrats -- Andrews, Y.
Republicans -- Snowe, N.
 
MARYLAND
Democrats -- Cardin, Y; Hoyer, Y; Mfume, Y; Wynn, Y.
Republicans -- Bartlett, N; Bentley, N; Gilchrest, N; Morella, N.
 
MASSACHUSETTS
Democrats -- Frank, Y; Kennedy, Y; Markey, Y; Meehan, Y; Moakley, Y; Neal, Y; Olver, Y; Studds, Y.
Republicans -- Blute, N; Torkildsen, N.
 
MICHIGAN
Democrats -- Barcia, Y; Bonior, Y; Carr, Y; Collins, Y; Conyers, Y; Dingell, Y; Ford, Y; Kildee, Y; Levin, Y; Stupak, Y.
Republicans -- Camp, N; Hoekstra, N; Knollenberg, N; Smith, N; Upton, N.
 
MINNESOTA
Democrats -- Minge, N; Oberstar, Y; Penny, Y; Peterson, N; Sabo, Y; Vento, Y.
Republicans -- Grams, N; Ramstad, N.
 
MISSISSIPPI
Democrats -- Montgomery, N; Parker, N; Taylor, N; Thompson, Y; Whitten, Y.
 
MISSOURI
Democrats -- Clay, Y; Danner, N; Gephardt, Y; Skelton, Y; Volkmer, Y; Wheat, Y.
Republicans -- Emerson, N; Hancock, N; Talent, N.
 
MONTANA
Democrats -- Williams, Y.
 
NEBRASKA
Democrats -- Hoagland, Y.
Republicans -- Barrett, N; Bereuter, N.
 
NEVADA
Democrats -- Bilbray, Y.
Republicans -- Vucanovich, N.
 
NEW HAMPSHIRE
Democrats -- Swett, N.
Republicans -- Zeliff, N.
 
NEW JERSEY
Democrats -- Andrews, N; Hughes, Y; Klein, N; Menendez, Y; Pallone, N; Payne, Y; Torricelli, Y.
Republicans -- Franks, N; Gallo, N; Roukema, N; Saxton, N; Smith, N; Zimmer, N.
 
NEW MEXICO
Democrats -- Richardson, Y.
Republicans -- Schiff, N; Skeen, N.
 
NEW YORK
Democrats -- Ackerman, Y; Engel, Y; Flake, Y; Hinchey, Y; Hochbrueckner, Y; LaFalce, Y; Lowey, Y; Maloney, Y; Manton, Y; McNulty, Y; Nadler, Y; Owens, Y; Rangel, Y; Schumer, Y; Serrano, Y; Slaughter, Y; Towns, Y; Velazquez, Y.
Republicans -- Boehlert, N; Fish, N; Gilman, N; Houghton, N; King, N; Lazio, N; Levy, N; McHugh, N; Molinari, N; Paxon, N; Quinn, N; Solomon, N; Walsh, N.
 
NORTH CAROLINA
Democrats -- Clayton, Y; Hefner, Y; Lancaster, Y; Neal, Y; Price, Y; Rose, Y; Valentine, Y; Watt, Y.
Republicans -- Ballenger, N; Coble, N; McMillan, N; Taylor, N.
 
NORTH DAKOTA
Democrats -- Pomeroy, Y.
 
OHIO
Democrats -- Applegate, Y; Brown, Y; Fingerhut, Y; Hall, Y; Kaptur, Y; Mann, N; Sawyer, Y; Stokes, Y; Strickland, Y; Traficant, N.
Republicans -- Boehner, N; Gillmor, N; Hobson, N; Hoke, N; Kasich, N; Oxley, N; Portman, N; Pryce, N; Regula, N.
 
OKLAHOMA
Democrats -- Brewster, N; English, N; McCurdy, N; Synar, Y.
Republicans -- Inhofe, N; Istook, N.
 
OREGON
Democrats -- DeFazio, Y; Furse, Y; Kopetski, Y; Wyden, Y.
Republicans -- Smith, N.
 
PENNSYLVANIA
Democrats -- Blackwell, Y; Borski, Y; Coyne, Y; Foglietta, Y; Holden, Y; Kanjorski, Y; Klink, Y; Margolies-Mezvinsky, Y; McHale, Y; Murphy, Y; Murtha, Y.
Republicans -- Clinger, N; Gekas, N; Goodling, N; Greenwood, N; McDade, N; Ridge, N; Santorum, N; Shuster, N; Walker, N; Weldon, N.
 
RHODE ISLAND
Democrats -- Reed, Y.
Republicans -- Machtley, N.
 
SOUTH CAROLINA
Democrats -- Clyburn, Y; Derrick, Y; Spratt, Y.
Republicans -- Inglis, N; Ravenel, N; Spence, N.
 
SOUTH DAKOTA
Democrats -- Johnson, Y.
 
TENNESSEE
Democrats -- Clement, N; Cooper, Y; Ford, Y; Gordon, Y; Lloyd, N; Tanner, Y.
Republicans -- Duncan, N; Quillen, N; Sundquist, N.
 
TEXAS
Democrats -- Andrews, Y; Brooks, Y; Bryant, Y; Chapman, N; Coleman, Y; de la Garza, Y; Edwards, N; Frost, Y; Geren, N; Gonzalez, Y; Green, Y; Hall, N; Johnson, E. B., Y; Laughlin, N; Ortiz, Y; Pickle, Y; Sarpalius, Y; Stenholm, N; Tejeda, Y; Washington, Y; Wilson, Y.
Republicans -- Archer, N; Armey, N; Barton, N; Bonilla, N; Combest, N; DeLay, N; Fields, N; Johnson, Sam, N; Smith, N.
 
UTAH
Democrats -- Orton, N; Shepherd, Y.
Republicans -- Hansen, N.
 
VERMONT
Independent -- Sanders, Y
 
VIRGINIA
Democrats -- Boucher, Y; Byrne, Y; Moran, Y; Payne, Y; Pickett, N; Scott, Y; Sisisky, Y.
Republicans -- Bateman, N; Bliley, N; Goodlatte, N; Wolf, N.
 
WASHINGTON
Democrats -- Cantwell, Y; Dicks, Y; Foley, Y; Inslee, N; Kreidler, Y; McDermott, Y; Swift, Y; Unsoeld, Y.
Republicans -- Dunn, N.
 
WEST VIRGINIA
Democrats -- Mollohan, Y; Rahall, Y; Wise, Y.
 
WISCONSIN
Democrats -- Barca, Y; Barrett, Y; Kleczka, Y; Obey, Y.
Republicans -- Gunderson, N; Klug, N; Petri, N; Roth, N; Sensenbrenner, N.
 
WYOMING
Republicans -- Thomas, N.
 
VIRGINIA
Democrats -- Boucher, Y; Byrne, Y; Moran, Y; Payne, Y; Pickett, N; Scott, Y; Sisisky, Y.
Republicans -- Bateman, N; Bliley, N; Goodlatte, N; Wolf, N.
 
WASHINGTON
Democrats -- Cantwell, Y; Dicks, Y; Foley, Y; Inslee, N; Kreidler, Y; McDermott, Y; Swift, Y; Unsoeld, Y.
Republicans -- Dunn, N.
 
WEST VIRGINIA
Democrats -- Mollohan, Y; Rahall, Y; Wise, Y.
 
WISCONSIN
Democrats -- Barca, Y; Barrett, Y; Kleczka, Y; Obey, Y.
Republicans -- Gunderson, N; Klug, N; Petri, N; Roth, N; Sensenbrenner, N.
 
WYOMING
Republicans -- Thomas, N.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After last night's budget vote, President Clinton praised the House for "putting the national interest ahead of the narrow interest." (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRADFORD, ENGLAND (54%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRADFORD, ENGLAND (54%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (51%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



159 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold's Long, Seductive Climb Ends in a Flash

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
Gold prices plunged yesterday in a frenzied day of trading as investors dumped their holdings amid the easing of Europe's currency crisis and rumors of sales by China's central bank.
The sharp drop in prices came amid what traders described as a marketwide panic. A broad swath of international investors, mutual funds and speculators unloaded gold on fears that demand was softening even as the price was reaching a speculative peak. 
 "The market just crashed," said Patrick MaGilligan, a precious metals trader with Merrill Lynch & Company. "At some points during the day, there were absolutely no bids."
Yesterday's plunge in prices, which came after large numbers of professional and individual investors flocked to gold in hopes of easy profits, was a grim reminder of the volatility and riskiness of the commodities markets.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery, which hit a high yesterday of $400.70 an ounce, fell at rapid speed to a late price of $377.20, some $22 below the previous day's close. During the day, the price had sunk even more, to a low of $372 an ounce.
The most actively traded gold contract, for December delivery, ended trading at $380.70 an ounce, down $22.60. The collapse brought spot gold and all of the major gold contracts below the psychologically important level of $400 an ounce, which could make it difficult for the precious metal to regain any upward momentum in the next few weeks, traders said.
Other precious metals also fell. Silver for September delivery plummeted 48.2 cents to end at $4.783 an ounce on the Comex, and platinum for October delivery sank $25 to close at $394.60 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Gold's drop left prices about where they were four weeks ago, before the recent run-up, and only somewhat below the $390-an-ounce level reached two weeks ago.
Many of the biggest speculators in gold are still ahead of the game, since many bought in months ago, while prices were well below $350 an ounce. Sir James Goldsmith, a British-French financier, and George Soros, a renowned fund manager and speculator based in New York, made heavy bets on gold back in April. Of course, traders like Mr. Soros and Mr. Goldsmith rarely buy and hold commodities for long periods.
The sharp losses yesterday stemmed partly from the crisis last week in the European currency exchange system. On Friday, when that crisis reached its peak, gold hit its 34-month high on speculative buying as large institutional funds bet that a breakdown of the exchange system could set off a dash for the gold markets.
 
 
Huge Hoards of Gold
 Over the weekend, order was restored to the currency markets when European central bankers modified the exchange system, leaving many gold investors holding hoards of the metal and contracts on it, all of which had been purchased on an investment theory that proved false.
That left many investors anxious, knowing that the recent arrivals to the gold party could decide to dash out the door with the push of a button on a trading computer. And, as any trader knows, anxiety begets a collapse in any market.
Gold prices dropped during each trading day this week, and the number of open gold futures contracts, a statistic that traders say is an important sign of potential growth in market demand, stopped rising.
By yesterday morning, the market was ripe for a fall. Rumors began in London that the central bank of China, where gold demand has been especially high in recent months, was selling 6 to 10 tons. "That spooked a lot of funds," Mr. MaGilligan of Merrill said.
On top of that came additional rumors that the Chinese Government was planning to further restrict purchases of gold by individuals, a move that could well give China's central bankers better control over their currency, but would choke off a significant source of demand. And figures released yesterday by the World Gold Council showed that imports to Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore were already slowing, falling to 161 metric tons in the second quarter, from 306 tons in the first quarter.
 
 
 
'A Chain Reaction'
 With the market already jittery, the selloff simply fed on itself. "It was like a chain reaction," said Ian MacDonald, manager of precious metals marketing with Credit Suisse. "Once it started, it just kept going."
One reason for the sustained plunge was that the funds that had pushed prices so high had also put in place orders to sell gold if it fell below a certain level. And those orders, known as stops, got hit repeatedly during the trading yesterday, pushing prices down more each time.
"At all levels, we hit all these stops from funds with major positions," said Daniel Weisman, head precious metals trader at the MTB Bank in New York. "As those stops got hit, there was no quality buying to absorb that kind of selling."
Even with the collapse in prices, traders said yesterday that they expected gold to resume its upward moves after Labor Day, when demand historically picks up, as long as there were no significant shocks to either the supply or the demand. But other analysts said that gold producers, most of whom have not been selling on anticipation of higher prices, may well begin to sell holdings out of fear that the market has hit its highs and may be headed lower.
"This will probably be overdone on the down side, as these selloffs are when there is such a sharp drop," Mr. MacDonald of Credit Suisse said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Sudden Reversal" shows daily closing prices for August gold futures contracts (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; CHINA EUROPE (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES; CURRENCY; FUTURES TRADING GOLD MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SPOT MARKET (79%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



160 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS;
BOSNIA PRESIDENT REFUSES TO BUDGE

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Aug. 5

 BODY:
With international mediators saying he has been strengthened by renewed talk of using NATO air power against his Serbian enemies, President Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia refused to compromise today in the stalled peace talks, forcing the mediators to postpone a resumption in negotiations until Monday.
"There has been no progress on the maps," Mr. Izetbegovic said as he left the United Nations offices here after talks with the mediators on carving up Bosnia and Herzegovina into three loosely linked ethnic republics. 
 The President, who is a Muslim, said he was still unable to accept Serbian and Croatian proposals for dividing such sensitive areas as Sarajevo and Muslim areas in eastern Bosnia. Mr. Izetbegovic also continued to insist that Serbian forces pull back from two strategic mountains that they had seized outside Sarajevo.
 
'Weekend of Reflection'
 After hearing the Bosnian demands, officials said the mediators, Lord Owen of the European Community and Thorvald Stoltenberg of the United Nations, concluded that there was no realistic chance of an agreement between President Izetbegovic and the Serbian and Croatian leaders, who returned home on Wednesday after waiting for three days for the Bosnian Government side to return to the table.
The mediators therefore decided against inviting the Serbs and Croats to come back here on Friday to resume talks, as they had hoped to do. But rather than formally suspend the negotiations, Lord Owen and Mr. Stoltenberg gave Bosnia's 10-member collective presidency a "weekend of reflection" to see whether this produces any change in its position.
Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader, and Mate Boban, the Bosnian Croat leader, agreed to return to Geneva on Monday to resume negotiations. By then it should be clear whether Gen. Ratko Mladic, the Bosnian Serb military commander, has honored a commitment he made to Mr. Karadzic today to withdraw his forces from the two mountains, Mount Bjelasnica and Mount Igman, on Friday and reopen two main roads into Sarajevo to allow the free passage of civilian traffic.
 
Awaiting Decision by NATO
 United Nations officials here also believe that the Bosnians are stalling until they see what comes out of a NATO meeting on Monday in Brussels. The meeting has been called to consider whether to give the go-ahead to detailed plans now being drafted for NATO air strikes against Serbian positions around Sarajevo and other locales that are under attack in defiance of a Security Council resolution that designated them "safe areas."
Lord Owen and Mr. Stoltenberg say they are convinced that once the Clinton Administration and then NATO started talking publicly about the possibility of air strikes, Bosnian Government leaders hardened their position in the belief that Washington and its allies might finally come to their rescue.
But like Britain, France and Canada, which all have peacekeepers in Bosnia, the mediators think that any resort to force now would end all hope of a negotiated settlement to the war and probably compel the United Nations to halt its relief operations, on which some two million people depend.
 
30% of Bosnia and Access to Sea
 Since earlier this year, when increasingly bitter clashes destroyed the uneasy alliance between the Croatian nationalists and the Bosnian Government, the mediators have argued that the balance of forces inside Bosnia would compel the outgunned Bosnian Army to accept the demands of the other two factions or face extinction.
The current round of negotiations was intended to reach agreement on a Serbian-Croatian proposal to divide the country, with the mediators determined to secure Bosnian Muslims an economically sustainable state of their own, providing them with at least 30 percent of Bosnia and guaranteeing them access to the Adriatic Sea.
The Serbs and the Croats have already agreed in principle to a Muslim state of this size and offered to give back land that they have conquered.
As of last Sunday, President Izetbegovic agreed to abandon his attachment to a multi-ethnic, unitary state. He and the other faction leaders had also largely agreed on at least the core territory that should belong to each republic, although differences remained over sensitive regions.
 
Balkan Update
 Serbian nationalist leaders in PALE announced a pullback of their troops from around SARAJEVO, the capital of BOSNIA, apparently fearing NATO air strikes. They also said they would open routes for aid convoys and the free movement of civilians.
United States officials said in WASHINGTON that they were pressing NATO to broaden military contingency planning to include roads, bridges, supply depots and command posts.
Bosnia's President refused to compromise in the stalled negotiations in GENEVA, forcing mediators to suspend talks until Monday.
A delegation of officials from Islamic nations, meeting in Geneva, assailed a plan to divide Bosnia along ethnic lines.
Fighting flared up in CROATIA, when rebel Serbs fired on the vital MASLENICA BRIDGE that Croats were supposed to yield.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CROATIA (94%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CROATIA (94%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MILITARY ACTION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); POLITICS (73%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; IZETBEGOVIC, ALIJA (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



161 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Higher After 3 Monthly Drops

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
Factory orders rebounded in June after three consecutive monthly declines, the Commerce Department said today. Analysts predict additional modest increases in the months ahead but caution that new manufacturing jobs will remain scarce.
Orders rose 2.6 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $254.8 billion, the best showing since December, but much of the gain was concentrated in the volatile aircraft industry. 
 Another Government report today showed that the number of Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits fell last week by 60,000, to 336,000, despite the fact that more flood victims showed up at claims offices.
Manufacturing has been one of the economy's weak spots this year, in part because consumer demand has been spotty after strong Christmas buying and in part because downturns abroad have led the Europeans and Japanese to buy fewer United States goods.
Economists, noting low business inventories and advances in auto sales this summer, expect an improvement. But they caution that productivity-minded companies will continue to show reluctance to hire.
"I look for manufacturing to pick up, in part because of the pickup in auto sales, but nothing dramatic," said Samuel D. Kahan, an economist at Fuji Securities Inc. in Chicago.
A key barometer of future factory employment worsened in June. The backlog of unfilled orders decreased eight-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $458.3 billion, the lowest level since September 1988. It was the fourth consecutive drop.
A dwindling backlog is an indication the current factory work force is having little difficulty keeping up with the flow of new orders.
"The backlog concerns me," said Elliott Platt, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in New York. "It means businesses don't have to expand."
Some analysts, though, are not overly worried. They say much of the backlog decline is concentrated in the defense industry.
Durable goods manufacturers -- those making big-ticket items such as cars and computers -- said orders rose 3.8 percent. Nondurable goods makers reported a 1.3 percent increase.
The Labor Department's report on first-time filings for unemployment benefits showed a larger-than-expected decline in claims, but economists noted that it came after the previous week's numbers had been skewed by a temporary shutdown at the General Motors Corporation for retooling.
Department analysts said states such as Illinois and Iowa were beginning to report an increase in claims from workers whose jobs had been disrupted by the Midwest flooding.
Even with this week's decline in claims, the four-week moving average still rise, climbing to 353,000, the highest level since April 17.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" shows manufacturers' total new orders from 1/92 to 6/93 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FUJI SECURITIES INC (68%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (62%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (88%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



162 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Move Upward

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Treasury prices rose and yields declined yesterday, even though key votes were still pending on the President's deficit-reduction package and the July employment report would be released today.
In addition, the Commerce Department reported that factory orders rose 2.6 percent in June, which was a larger increase than expected. And next week, is the Treasury's quarter auction, in which the Govenment will sell a record $38.5 billion of 3-year and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds. 
 Despite news that might normally disturb traders and investors, the market seems to be holding its own. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond, due in February 2023, rose 14/32 as the yield fell to 6.52 percent, from 6.55 percent Wednesday and matching the 16-year low it hit on Tuesday.
The price of the 10-year note rose 7/32 as the yield fell to 5.84 percent, from 5.88 percent the day before but still above its recent lows.
 
Intermediate Notes Also Rally
 Intermediate Treasury notes also rallied but remain locked in a tight trading range. The yield on the five-year note fell to 5.15 percent from 5.22 percent but has been caught in a range of 5.00 percent to 5.40 percent since mid-February.
"The market seems to be trading less and less in response to economic indicators and more on what will happen after a tax increase," said Pat Rothstein, a senior managing director at Bear, Stearns & Company. He was referring to the belief of some traders and investors that the deficit reduction package will slow the economy and make bonds and long-term securities more attractive by lessening the inflation risk.
"The data we have had could have been interpreted negatively," Mr. Rothestein added, but it's a market that wants to go up."
Traders and analysts said the market received a lift in the morning from the sharp drop in the price of gold overseas and a fall in the Commodity Research Bureau Index of Commodities, both barometers of inflation expectations.
 
Calmer Currency Markets
 While gold was cited as a catalyst, it did not seem to shake the market as much as it did a week ago when its price popped throught the $400-an-ounce level as concerns rose about the impact of a possible breakup of the European Monetary System.
The papering over of the damage to the European Monetary System has, for the time being, lead to calmer currency markets and is one of the reasons some fund managers began selling gold yesterday. Rumors of selling by the Chinese Government also added to selling pressure. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery fell $22 an ounce, ending the day at $377.20.
The House of Representatives began debating President Clinton's deficit package in the afternoon but there was no vote before trading finished for the day. Last night, the House narrowly approved the package.
The Senate is expected to vote on the deficit package later today. The vote will come well after the release of the Labor Department's report on July employment, and the uncertainty over the outcome may affect how some traders and investors react to the new data.
Michael H. Strauss, chief economist at Yamaichi International, said that the aanouncement by Senator Dennis DiConcini, Democrat of Arizona, that he would support the President's plan had eased concerns about the vote and helped Treasury prices rise yesterday.
Mr. Strauss noted that some investors took profits in the afternoon to take advantage of the flattening of the yield curve, which is the narrowing of the spreads between the yields on Treasury securities of different maturities, such as between two-year notes and the 30-year bonds.
 
Rise In Short-Term Rates
 This spread has narrowed sharply in the last three months because short-term rates have risen and the yield on the long bond has dropped, in part because the Treasury is cutting the annual issuance of these bonds by about 40 percent.
The spread has narrowed from 3.06 percentage points on May 7 to 2.42 percentage points yesterday. In a trade to take advantage of the narrowing of the spread, an investor buys 30-year bonds and sells two-year notes, betting that the price performance of the 30-year bond will be better as the yield curve flattens. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.
The employment data today are expected to show a jump of about 165,000 nonfarm payroll jobs, according to the consensus forecast reported by Bloomberg Business News. But Mr. Strauss is forecasting a rise of 225,000 and he said it could be higher.
The impact on the market will depend not only on the July number but also on whether the very weak 13,000 increase in nonfarm payroll jobs reported for June is revised upward. In the when-issued trading that occurs ahead of a Treasury auction, the yield on the 3-year note to be sold Tuesday was 4.50 percent; the yield on the 10-year note to be sold Wednesday was 5.81 percent and the yield on the 30-year bond to be sold Thursday was 6.45 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from 4/93 to 8/93 (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



163 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Fear on a Phone Ruling

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
When the F.C.C. voted earlier this week to open the local telephone market to further competition, the howls of complaint from local phone companies were extreme, even by Washington lobbying standards.
What can realistically happen in the near future is a great deal less than what the phone companies fear. And it seems to be much less than was hoped for by the upstart communications companies, which are supposed to benefit from the Federal Communications Commission's decision. 
 Seemingly at stake is the more than $86 billion annual market for local telephone service, which exceeds the economies of Greece and Egypt combined. But in fact, at least initially, the competitive stake may amount to less than $300 million a year for alternative phone companies like the Teleport Communications Group of Staten Island, which as an industry currently have a market share of two-tenths of a percent.
For its part, one potential competitor to the regional Bells finds much of the debate overblown. Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's largest cable-television company, is a minority investor in Teleport. Tele-Communications is also developing fiber-optic technology that could not only provide cable-television service but also telephone service, but it has not decided what it will do.
"Teleport and the other competitive-access providers would swoon with joy if they attained just 2 percent market share by the turn of the century," said Robert Thomson, senior vice president of Tele-Communications.
In its complex ruling on Tuesday, the F.C.C. removed more regulatory barriers to competition, helping carriers like Teleport and MFS Communications of Oakbrook Terrace, Ill.
Using Manhattan as an example, the new rules are expected to work as follows.
Currently, long-distance carriers like A.T.& T. pay fees to New York Telephone for completing long-distance calls over the local phone network in Manhattan. Industrywide, the part of this business that the F.C.C. is throwing open to competition represents about $4.2 billion a year to the local phone companies. But in the near term, because local rivals are so few and so small, as little as $264 million may be at stake, Teleport says.
Under this week's F.C.C. ruling, Nynex would be required to let Teleport lease access to the local network. Teleport could then compete for A.T.& T.'s business and complete an A.T.& T. long-distance call in Manhattan through Teleport lines.
For now, only business calls would be subject to such rival bids, but the Bell companies see the new rules as the first steps to opening most local and long-distance calls to competition.
And hence the phone companies' concern that increased competition, however trivial now, could undermine what is known as universal telephone service. In general, rates charged to urban customers, for whom service is cost-effective, subsidize the cost of phone service to suburban and far-flung rural customers. Indeed, in some cases, these rural customers may even lose money for the phone company.
The implication for the near future is unclear as telecommunications companies forge their information superhighway. But at the extreme, one result of free-for-all competition could be a caste system of telecommunications haves and have-nots: multimedia wonders with videophones for Manhattan, but plain old telephone service for farms in upstate New York -- and at higher prices.
This week's F.C.C. decision was designed to benefit upstart concerns like MFS and others whose total industry revenue is less than $200 million annually. But the much larger cable-television companies like Tele-Communications and Time Warner Inc. could also benefit as well. Their industry revenue exceeds $19 billion.
At least in theory, the big long-distance carriers -- the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, the MCI Communications Corporation and the Sprint Corporation -- and the regional Bells could also enter the fray. For example, the $10.3 billion U S West could compete in the $15.4 billion BellSouth territory to provide some form of network access, probably by leasing BellSouth's lines.
Competition may bring faster change in the local-telephone market than it did in the long-distance market. In long distance, it took more than a decade for then-tiny rivals like MCI to erode A.T.& T.'s market share significantly.
In its order this week, the F.C.C. took the unusual step of mandating that for every dollar that a big local carrier loses to a rival, the rival must rebate 80 cents to the phone company, in part to compensate the big carrier for providing such universal service. This arrangement is supposed to be only temporary, though it is unclear how long it may last.
"What the F.C.C. is trying to do in its ruling this week is prevent sticker shock for the consumer," said Dee A. May, regulatory affairs director for Nynex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: TCOM (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC (56%); MFS COMMUNICATIONS CO INC (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (77%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (72%); FIBER OPTICS (71%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY ROBERT J THOMSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



164 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar at New Low in Tokyo, But Up Modestly in Europe

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
With trade tensions between the United States and Japan showing no sign of letting up under a new Japanese leadership, the dollar reached still another postwar low yesterday against the yen.
But it rose against some European currencies in reaction to strong American economic data. 
 The dollar fetched 104.05 yen in late trading in New York yesterday, up a bit from an intraday low of 103.85 yen, but off markedly from 104.88 in New York late Wednesday. The previous record low, touched on Tuesday in Tokyo, had been 104 yen.
In Tokyo today, the dollar was quoted at 104.20 yen at midday.
Currency dealers and bankers theorized that a strong yen seemed to be the only way to reduce Japan's trade surplus. "The new government is not going to get a new trade agreement" with the United States, said Earl I. Johnson, a vice president of Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, alluding to the shaky and unsettled political situation in Tokyo.
Some currency dealers, believing that the dollar will soon fall to 100 yen, tried to hasten the process by quoting lower prices even in the absence of market-moving news.
"The market wants to move dollar-yen lower," said Belal Khan, a senior dealer at the Bank of Tokyo.
"There are rumors of big stop-loss orders" to sell dollars at 103.95 yen," said Jack Griffin, a vice president of Fuji Bank. "Dealers are just trying to find out if those stops are there."
The dollar rose against European currencies on news that first-time American jobless claims were lower than expected and that factory orders were up 2.6 percent in June. In New York, the dollar rose to 1.7123 marks from 1.7100 marks on Wednesday.
Money traders also seemed relieved that European central banks were not selling large quantities of dollars to replenish funds spent supporting weaker European currencies during last week's speculative run.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (55%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); POLITICS (68%); FACTORY ORDERS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



165 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Weather Failed to Sink Big Retailers' July Sales

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Retailers reported mixed sales results for July yesterday, with shoppers hunting for bargains at end-of-season clearance sales.
Flooding in the Midwest and heat waves in the East and South had little effect over all. But Sears, Roebuck & Company, which had particularly strong increases, cited storm- and heat-related sales as helping results.
Based on estimates by Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Service, sales in the month were up 8.6 percent from July 1992 and 2 percent from June.
"July is a transitional, trans-seasonal month characterized by clearance sales," said Joseph Ronning, an analyst with Brown Brothers Harriman, "and some companies that reported solid gains were unloading merchandise they didn't sell at full price in April, May or June."
He said he expects lackluster sales in August, "once we get back into a full-price environment."
 
Gains for Sears
 July's strongest performer was Sears, the third-largest United States retailer, whose same-store sales rose 15.4 percent. Sears cited increased demand for appliance-repair service in the flood-stricken Midwest and said a heat wave in the South spurred sales of air-conditioners.
Analysts use same-store, or comparable-store, sales to measure sales strength because they discount the effect of new or closed units.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer, recorded a 9 percent increase in July same-store sales, while the Kmart Corporation, the second-largest retailer, said same-store sales were up 3.7 percent.
But July was disappointing for Venture Stores Inc., whose comparable-store sales fell five-tenths of 1 percent. Venture's chairman, Julian Seeherman, said, "A difficult economic climate along with effects of the flood of '93 on consumer shopping made business weak in most of our markets."
 
Salomon Index Up
 Jeffrey Feiner, an analyst for Salomon Brothers, said his company's same-store index, a barometer of sales performance, was 5.7 percent for July, up from 5.6 percent in June but down from 6.4 percent a year ago.
Kurt Barnard of Barnard's Retailing Marketing Report noted a 2 percent decrease in same-store sales at the Gap Inc. and a decline of two-tenths of a percent in comparable-store sales at Federated Department Stores Inc.
"As in June, we've seen a continuation of a pattern of strength in stores catering to home-oriented merchandise," he said. "By and large, apparel stores are falling flat."
 
Retailers' Sales Detailed
By The Associated Press
Here are domestic July sales reported yesterday by some of the nation's largest retailers:
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
Month of July: Same-store sales rose 9 percent; overall sales totaled $5.44 billion, up 26 percent from $4.31 billion.
Kmart Corp.
Four weeks ended July 28: Same-store sales rose 3.7 percent; overall sales totaled $3.03 billion, up 12.6 percent from $2.69 billion.
Sears, Roebuck & Co.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales rose 15.4 percent; overall sales totaled $2.3 billion, up 12.3 percent from $2.05 billion.
Dayton Hudson Corp.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales fell three-tenths of a percent; overall sales totaled $1.24 billion, up 5.1 percent from $1.18 billion.
J. C. Penney Co.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales fell 3.1 percent at Penney stores only. Overall sales totaled $1.17 billion, up 1.8 percent from $1.15 billion.
May Department Stores Co.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales rose 6 percent; overall sales totaled $695.4 million, up 8.4 percent from $641.4 million.
Melville Corp.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales fell 1.1 percent; overall sales totaled $685.7 million, down 1.4 percent from $695.1 million.
Federated Department Stores Inc.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales fell two-tenths of a percent; overall sales totaled $382.7 million, down 1 percent from $386.5 million.
Limited Inc.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales rose 8 percent; overall sales totaled $480.4 million, up 16 percent from $415 million.
Woolworth Corp.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store domestic sales fell 3.3 percent; overall domestic sales totaled $402 million, up 1.7 percent from $395 million. Total sales, including foreign, were $695 million, down 1.7 percent from $707 million.
Gap Inc.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales fell 2 percent; overall sales totaled $199 million, up 10 percent from $181 million.
Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.
Four weeks ended July 31: Same-store sales fell seven-tenths of a percent; overall sales totaled $130.1 million, down 3.2 percent from $134.4 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (84%); M (NYSE) (84%); GPS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (66%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO; JOHNSON REDBOOK SERVICE SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (85%); WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); MACY'S INC (84%); GAP INC (83%); VENTURE STORES INC (66%); KMART CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO; JOHNSON REDBOOK SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WEATHER; SALES; FLOODS RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAILERS (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (79%); DEPARTMENT STORES (79%); WEATHER (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); SALES & SELLING (73%); APPLIANCE REPAIR (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (52%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



166 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Kill All the Lawyers? Maybe With Kindness

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

 BODY:
As if 54,386 lawyers in five boroughs are not enough, New York suddenly has 13,000 more.
For the next six days, the city is playing host to the American Bar Association, which is holding its 115th annual meeting here. Lawyers from throughout the country, along with bar leaders from 35 countries, along with various spouses and dependents, will fill 21 hotels and clog the city's sidewalks in their annual ritual of enlightenment, enrichment and entertainment. 
 By any standards, even those of New York, A.B.A. conventions are gargantuan productions. The bar group is bringing 150,000 pounds of paper and equipment to New York and expects to produce more than 500,000 documents while here. And for all the talk of lawyers hurting the nation's economy, this particular group will pump more than $9 million into the city's coffers.
The numbers could go still higher, depending on how many stragglers show up. "People registered real late," Mary Cavalini, director of the bar group's meetings department, said in an interview from the convention's nerve center in the New York Hilton. "It could be the cost, or the World Trade Center incident might have been a problem."
 
Bellmen in Wigs
 Hotels, filled to capacity with lawyers, are filled with good will for them. This week, at least, no one in them is paying much heed to a survey in The National Law Journal which showed that "resentment of lawyers is running at a fever pitch," especially among the more affluent and educated. At the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza on Broadway, where lawyers are occupying two-thirds of the 770 rooms, the bellmen are wearing wigs and robes, chocolate gavels will be placed atop all pillows, and a fake metal detector has been installed in the lobby, just to make the courtroom types feel at home. On the menu are such dishes as "cross-examined salmon," while what has temporarily been renamed the "Bar Bar" features "precedent punch," "constitutional cooler" and "contempt of court crush."
"When I started reading that there's a lot of attorney-bashing, I wanted to do something positive, something that would make them feel good about themselves and make them realize that New Yorkers can ignore what others are saying throughout the country," said Michael Silberstein, the hotel's general manager.
For local politicians like Gov. Mario M. Cuomo (one speech) Mayor David N. Dinkins (one Sunday morning prayer breakfast plus two receptions at Gracie Mansion), the convention, the bar's first meeting here since 1986, is a coveted, conspicuous chance to play gracious host. Among the few local lawyers apparently not planning to attend is Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Dinkins's electoral adversary. "His schedule is booked over the next week," said Ken Frydman, a spokesman for Mr. Giuliani.
 
Displays of Class and Whimsy
 For local law firms, the convention is a chance to show their influence, their class and, for some, their sense of whimsy. For $30,000 or so, the Morristown, N.J., firm of Pitney, Harden, Kipp & Szuch has rented the Temple of Dendur for Monday night. Going head-to-head against them is Proskauer, Rose, Goetz & Mendelsohn, which is offering what it calls "a magical evening" at Radio City Music Hall.
Both must compete with Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, which will take over F.A.O. Schwarz at the same time. "The store will remain open exclusively for the shopping pleasure of guests," the firm's invitation reads. (Cravath, Swaine & Moore, where Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr. is a partner, is holding a more traditional reception in its offices on Eighth Avenue.) The evening amid the toys promises to be a far greater draw than a breakfast discussion the following morning at Debevoise & Plimpton on the Family and Medical Leave and the Americans With Disabilities Acts.
Topping the official A.B.A. agenda is yet another debate over abortion rights, an issue that has become as much a part of bar conventions over the past four years as cocktail parties and dinner dances. Since the bar group took a pro-choice stance last year, some 5,000 of its 370,000 members have resigned in protest.
And perhaps the session's most intriguing program is a mock retrial Monday of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg.
 
A Chance for Exploration
 But for many conventioneers, the meeting will be more a chance to explore spicy, dicey New York than to talk law or politics or ethics. By adjournment on Wednesday, groups of lawyers will have climbed the Empire State Building (by elevator) with King Kong, eaten "melting pot-luck suppers" in Chinatown or Astoria, heard the Harlem Boys Choir at the Sheraton Center and sailed around Manhattan courtesy of the Chicago Title Insurance Company.
Tours of the Guggenheim Museum, Ellis Island, West Point and Hyde Park are sold out. Tickets for breakfast at Planet Hollywood, followed by a tour of the Museum of Television and Radio, are selling briskly, as is a visit to what the program refers to as "the trendy Upper West Side." In this crowd, at least, even Mets tickets are coveted. But at least one program -- "Queens for a Day" -- was canceled for lack of interest.
To Tony Napoli of Briggs Red Carpet Associates, who arranged the expeditions, the conventioneers have proved surprisingly ordinary in their selections, generally favoring the same Broadway shows and bread-and-butter attractions as members of the Congress of Thrombosis and Haemostasis, whom he assisted last month.
"You'd think lawyers are more sophisticated or discriminating, but they still want the basics," he said. "They might come to town on business all the time, and don't have time to see the Statue of Liberty or the top of the Empire State Building or the United Nations."
This year's gathering features a record-breaking 2,619 meetings and events and 2,250 speakers, all detailed in a 675-page program book. Some are famous: featured attractions include Attorney General Janet Reno, Justice-to-Be Ruth Bader Ginsburg, F.B.I. Director-to-Be Louis J. Freeh, Connie Chung, Bianca Jagger, Mary Higgins Clark and E. G. Marshall, and do not include President Clinton, who begged off.
Other speakers may be less lustrous but are far more loquacious. The bar group's current president, J. Michael McWilliams of Baltimore, is scheduled to speak 25 times, while the man who will replace him at convention's close, R. William Ide 3d of Atlanta, will speak 21 times. R. Harrison Pledger, a lawyer in McLean, Va., will present the A.B.A.'s 1993 "Dignity in Lawyer Advertising" award. Among the other speakers are 16 Smiths, 7 Cohens, 12 Browns, 7 Whites and 3 Blacks.
Together, they will talk on topics including "Lost Words: Economic, Ethical, and Professional Effects of Bad Legal Writing"; "If I'd Wanted to Be in Sales, I Wouldn't Have Gone to Law School! -- Making Marketing Painless"; and "Why is My Client Nuts? An Inquiry Into the Psychodynamics of Divorce." Judith S. Kaye, Chief Judge of New York, will speak at a seminar Saturday titled "Is the Law Male?" -- one of nine speeches she is scheduled to give.
 
Hidden Attractions
 Even seemingly innocuous seminars can contain hidden attractions. For instance, a discussion Saturday morning called "Some Things Your Mother Never Told You About the Revised Uniform Commercial Code" features Anita F. Hill. Professor Hill will give a luncheon address afterward and take part in a panel discussion Sunday on the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Neither Justice Clarence Thomas nor any other member of the Supreme Court is expected at the convention.
While it is dwarfed by next month's gathering of the National Baptist Convention, U.S.A., which will draw 50,000 to the city, for local businesses, the convention is a bonanza -- so much so that New York is already vying for the 1998 bar gathering. Tavern on the Green, for instance, has booked functions for several of the astonishing array of subgroups that make up the A.B.A. So, too, has the Rainbow Room.
"We have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight parties," said Joseph Baum at the Rainbow Room, ticking off reservations by the National Association of Bar Executives, the A.B.A. law practice management section, the executive council of the National Conference of Bar Presidents, and the New York firm of Shearman & Sterling. "That's all private rooms, and I haven't given you the a la carte business. I wish they came more often."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Kukafka of the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza on Broadway donned a wig and robe to assist lawyers like Sula Lowe Baye, left, and Dimetria Jackson at the American Bar Association's 115th annual meeting this week in New York, bringing 13,000 more lawyers to the city. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BAR ASSN (ABA); NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL HOLIDAY INN BAHRAIN (54%); HOLIDAY INN HARARE (54%); CROWNE PLAZA MONOMATAPA (54%); HOLIDAY INN MUSCAT (54%); HOLIDAY INN SOLOMONS (54%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSN (ABA); NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION; LAWYERS LAWYERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); POLITICS (71%); RELIGION (71%); METAL DETECTORS (50%); 

PERSON: MARGOLICK, DAVID RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



167 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Perversely, Yen's Rise May Prolong the Japanese Recession

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 5

 BODY:
The sharp swings in European currency markets may ultimately encourage a recovery in some of Europe's depressed economies by bringing down interest rates and making foreign products cheaper. But in Japan, the crisis may well have the opposite effect and could extinguish early flickers of an economic rebound.
While attention has been focused on the decline in the value of the French franc, the level of German interest rates, and the future of the European Monetary System, the yen has jumped in value against the dollar, setting off concern that Japan's nascent recovery from a long recession may be cut short. 
 The dollar slid to another postwar low today, fetching 103.85 yen at one point in New York. In late trading, the dollar sold for 104.05 yen, down from 104.88. That compares with 108.125 yen a little more than two weeks ago. More notably, since the beginning of the year it has fallen 16 percent.
By international currency standards that is a huge change, affecting hundreds of billions of dollars in trade, investment and currency.
 
No Boon to Industry
 The yen's relative increase makes it more expensive for Americans to buy Japanese exports with their weaker dollars, and also makes imported goods cheaper for Japanese paying in yen. While that helps consumers, it falls hard on manufacturers here -- pushing down profits, risking a reduction in already weak capital investment, and eating into bonus payments that make up a substantial portion of workers' incomes.
"The yen has become an obstacle to recovery," said Hirohiko Okumura, chief economist at the Nomura Research Institute. "The basic problem is not new; the dollar was already declining against the yen and we have been lowering our forecasts for economic growth this year. But now it is certain that if there is not a big stimulus to the economy, there will be no rebound."
Besides benefiting from its role as a currency haven at a time of international uncertainty, the yen has been helped by Japan's huge trade surplus, which is expected to exceed $150 billion this year. This encourages Japanese companies to sell dollar earnings and purchase yen, economists say.
But with an untested new coalition government poised to take power, the rising yen is threatening to become a political football.
There are already debates over what new measures the government should take to stimulate the ailing economy, whether the Finance Ministry will resist a tax cut as a stimulative measure, and whether slower growth will set off criticism in the United States.
Already, the government-to-be is finding that uncertainty is its unwanted companion. Today, Parliament was to choose Morihiro Hosokawa of the Japan New Party as Prime Minister. But the long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party blocked his election, demanding that one of its own be elected Speaker of the lower house and that the brief legislative session be extended so that Mr. Hosokawa could state and then defend his policies.
The new coalition has said that its first priority will be legislation to reform the electoral system after five years of scandals based on illegal payments to top politicians. The economy has been regarded as important, yet secondary. The recent concerns, however, could increase pressure on the coalition to tackle economic issues at the same time and to prepare a major package of stimulative measures, the third in a year.
Corporate Japan has also been turning up the heat for assistance from the new government.
Gaishi Hiraiwa, chairman of the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations, the most influential business group, commented, "There is a limit to companies' ability to deal with the relentless appreciation of the yen, which has already gone beyond what would be an appropriate level based on the economic fundamentals."
The issue could become a highly divisive one for the fragile coalition of seven parties that is to govern. Barring more surprises, it is to replace the Liberal Democrats, who held office for 38 years. Even many Liberal Democrats are now critical of the arrogance that so long a stretch of power has bred. Yet economic policy-making has been much easier with one party than it is expected to be with seven.
 
Not Everyone Would Cut Taxes
 The Socialists, the largest party in the new coalition, have indicated that they will support cuts in income taxes instead of a big increase in spending on construction and public works, so that the stimulative measures will benefit individual Japanese and not just corporations. But Ichiro Ozawa, a highly influential conservative figure in the coalition, has said that he will resist a tax cut out of concern that it would increase the budget deficit.
Tsutomu Hata, another conservative figure and a former Finance Minister, acknowledged this week that the tax issue was a divisive one and that arriving at a decision might be tough.
Officially, the Government has said that it expects the economy to grow 3.3 percent in the current fiscal year, which ends on April 1, 1994. That, however, is about twice the pace predicted by most private economists. Mr. Okumura said that under continued pressure from a strong yen, the rate of economic growth could be as low as seven-tenths of 1 percent if the government did not act.
Kazuaki Harada, chief economist at the Sanwa Research Institute, has said that he expects 1.6 percent growth for the year, but that figure has rested on the assumption that the dollar would not fall below 115 yen.
In recent days, the Government has announced that auto sales are declining and that department-store sales continue to fall, as well. They have been falling for 16 months.
Toshiro Kiribuchi, chief financial officer of the Omron Corporation, a major electronics manufacturer, said that for such exporters, the yen exchange rate that puts Japanese business on equal competitive terms with foreign producers is about 120 to the dollar.
Below that level, he said, manufacturers face severe pressure to move their factories out of the country, and all companies are more inclined to hire illegal aliens, who have been streaming into Japan and often working for lower wages than Japanese will.
Mr. Harada has laid out three scenarios for the economy. In the most optimistic, which he has embraced until now, a slow recovery will begin soon after the economy bottoms out from the nearly two-year recession. In the two others, the economy will stagnate and then make a very anemic recovery or level off, only to move back into recession. "If the yen stays at 104, it is quite likely we'll move to the second scenario," he said. "I'm getting more pessimistic."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Yen's Rise" shows the number of cents needed to buy 100 yen, at the end of each week. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 4307 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; EUROPE JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; FORECASTS; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); TAX LAW (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



168 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Explosions in Southeastern China Kill Scores, Official Report Says

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 5

 BODY:
A series of huge explosions shook the southern city of Shenzhen today, possibly killing as many as 70 people, an official report said.
The explosions, shattering windows for miles around, occurred just across the border in China from Hong Kong, in the Shenzhen "special economic zone." Shenzhen (pronounced shun-JUN) is the centerpiece of China's economic liberalization program and one of the richest cities in the nation. 
 The blasts are likely to raise new questions about industrial safety in China, particularly as a nuclear power plant is to go on line soon in Daya Bay, not far from Shenzhen.
 
No Sign of Sabotage
 The first explosion was set off by a leak of nitric acid from a warehouse for hazardous materials. The fire from that blast then ignited a natural gas plant nearby, and by evening 8 of the 10 warehouses in the area had exploded in succession, the official New China News Agency reported. It is not clear what goods were being stored in the first warehouse, or precisely what ignited them, and there has been no indication of sabotage.
The agency did not give a precise death toll, saying only that more than 100 people had been killed or injured. Another China-controlled news service, the Hong Kong China News Agency, said that one hospital had admitted 200 injured people and that the number of dead could reach 70.
Many of the dead were firefighters, police officers and medical workers who had rushed to the scene after the first explosion. Among those killed were 2 deputy directors of the Shenzhen Public Security Bureau.
The Associated Press reported from Hong Kong that the Shenzhen authorities had requested help from the Hong Kong government, and that the British territory's director of fire services had flown to the area to assess the fire.
Official reports said the first blast had occurred at a warehouse operated by the Anmao Dangerous Goods Shipping and Storage Company, apparently an army-owned enterprise. The army has a wide range of profit-making companies engaged in everything from tourism to clock manufacturing.
As in most developing countries, safety standards are relatively lax in China, and the local authorities are sometimes willing to excuse problems in army-owned companies. But the Government has tried to raise consciousness about safety in recent years and has initiated campaigns to improve industrial safety.
Shenzhen abounds in small factories, mostly producing toys, clothing and electronic goods for export to the United States and other destinations through the port of Hong Kong.

GRAPHIC: Map of China showing location of Shenzhen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SHENZHEN (CHINA); CHINA CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS; EXPLOSIONS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; NITRIC ACID; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (75%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (70%); NATURAL GAS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); APPAREL MFG (70%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (55%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (55%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



169 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Give Travelers a Three-Tiered Fare Cut

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Travelers who played the waiting game this summer were rewarded yesterday when rival airlines not only matched the fare cuts announced by Delta Air Lines on Wednesday, offering discounts of up to 35 percent for travel through Dec. 15, but added three weeks to the start of the sale.
Delta had hoped to get past the busy Labor Day weekend before putting the discounts into effect on Sept. 15, but its rivals countered by allowing travel beginning Aug. 23. Rather than risk losing passengers to other carriers, Delta also agreed yesterday to the earlier date. But it dropped the 14-day advance purchase required by most other airlines, although a spokesman said last night that the carrier was reviewing whether to reinstate it. 
 "It's a creative attempt to solve the industry's problem of lagging leisure traffic, but even if it works the carriers still have serious structural problems," said Chris Miller, pricing analyst for USTravel, the nation's fifth- largest travel agency.
 
A Traffic Turnaround?
 The new fares are intended to address the lackluster traffic so far this year and predictions of an equally mediocre autumn. While fares have increased sharply in 1993, load factors -- the percentage of seats filled with paying passengers -- have been up one month and down another. Earlier this week, Jim Landry, president of the Air Transport Association, which represents major United States airlines, said the industry lost more than $400 million during the first six months of 1993, and $10 billion over the past three years.
The discounts announced this week are to some degree extensions of the 30 percent discounts on leisure travel that America West Airlines has offered in a series of eight sales since last November, the latest of which is good for travel through Sept. 30. But America West accounts for only a little more than 2 percent of the market, whereas Delta, which initiated this round, accounts for almost 18 percent.
The new fares are nonrefundable, take effect toward the end of the summer travel season, and impose other restrictions intended to prevent a repetition of last summer's disastrous fare war.
The discounts will be offered in stages -- somewhat like the fare structure that cruise ships have introduced over the last two years. The savings will be 35 percent on tickets purchased now through Aug. 17, 30 percent from Aug. 18 to Aug. 31 and 25 percent from Sept. 1 to Sept. 15.
Compared with the normal New York-Los Angeles round-trip excursion fare of $578, the new fares will be $376 for tickets purchased through Aug. 17, $405 for tickets purchased Aug. 18 to 31 and $433 for tickets purchased Sept. 1 to 15.
The new fares have several attractive features for leisure travel. While they require a Saturday night stay, they do not impose the usual travel blackouts over Labor Day and Thanksgiving. Tickets can be purchased during a period of almost six weeks, instead of the five to 10 days allowed in most promotions. The fares also apply to travel to Alaska, Hawaii, the United States Virgin Islands and San Juan, P.R., as well as Canada, Bermuda and Nassau in the Bahamas.
For passengers with time on their hands, agents said, the new fares were well worth waiting for. "I have a list of people who have been waiting for a sale, and asked me to call back when fares go down," said Jacqueline Kovach, owner of Community Travel Center in Fairmont, W. Va. "So today and tomorrow we'll be busy doing that."
 
Continuous Sales
 But Ms. Kovach also pointed to what many airline officials and analysts view as a dangerous byproduct of trying to stimulate traffic with repeated discounts: "The airlines have conditioned travelers to expect sales," she said, "and many people won't fly until there is one."
Mr. Miller of USTravel said low fares were financially feasible in a lagging economy only if carriers have a low-cost operating structure.
"If the economy picks up and your traffic improves, you have more options because you can vary the fare mix," he said. "But in a weak economy, you can't keep leisure fares up to where they should be and you can raise fares for business travelers only for a time before you reach a price resistance point."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Find the Calculator, Pack the Bags" shows discounted air fares from Dallas, Los Angeles and New Orleans to New York (Source: Delta Air Lines)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (91%); TRV (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); TRAVELERS COS INC (91%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (73%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; NYTRAVEL; DISCOUNT SELLING PRICE CUTTING (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); US LABOR DAY (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (79%); CRUISES (74%); TRAVEL AGENTS (74%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); THANKSGIVING (61%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



170 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Sues For Cleanup Of the Bronx

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
Saying that filth hurts the Bronx's image and business, Borough President Fernando Ferrer yesterday took the unusual step of suing the city to clean up highways and major thoroughfares and to fill in hundreds of potholes.
But Mayor David N. Dinkins quickly issued a statement saying that the Bronx -- fighting to keep the Yankees and perennially nervous about its reputation -- is actually cleaned better than other boroughs. He cited arcane statistics that showed in part how intent City Hall was to fend off the prickly attack, which came from a political supporter not long before the mayoral election. 
 With only 18 percent of the city's highways, 34 percent (6,000 cubic yards) of all debris removed from city highways came from the Bronx, while the borough accounted for 33 percent of grass cut (700 acres), 20 percent of potholes filled and 31 percent of the guide rails replaced, the Mayor said.
"Obviously he has got the right cause but has embarked on the wrong course of action to address it," Mr. Dinkins said in his statement.
 
'Intolerable Condition'
 At the Bronx County Courthouse, Mr. Ferrer conceded that the legal action was unorthodox, but said it grew out of frustration that the endless slick of paper cups, bottles, tires and furniture along the roadways never seemed to disappear. For a year, he said, he has been imploring various city agencies, especially the Department of Transportation, to clean them up.
"This is a completely intolerable condition and that's why we're suing," Mr. Ferrer said, standing before black-and-white photographs of areas he said were especially litter-strewn.
He said that dirty highways pitted with potholes reinforce negative stereotypes of the Bronx and discourage new business investment. He denied that his suit had anything to do with recent negotiations with Yankees officials, who have complained about cleanliness near the stadium. He also said he did not intend to hurt the Mayor.
"This is not a thing to embarrass Mayor Dinkins, by no means," he said.
But City Hall officials said they were perplexed by the timing of the suit, coming during the campaign season and just after the Mayor came out in strong support of Mr. Ferrer's redevelopment plans for the Bronx Center and his efforts to keep the Yankees in the borough.
 
Residents back Cleanups
 Beyond that, the city's Corporation Counsel, O. Peter Sherwood, said the suit was "baseless" because municipalities have the right to decide for themselves how to spend tax dollars.
"The courts are not in the business of directing how executive branch agencies should allocate resources," he said.
Joseph DePlasco, a spokesman for the city Department of Transportation, denied that his agency was unresponsive to Mr. Ferrer's request. He cited various cleanups, including one that began in June along the Major Deegan Expressway during negotiations with the Yankees.
Many Bronx residents said they were pleased with Mr. Ferrer's suit, though some said he should have emphasized interior streets rather than highways used by residents and passers-by alike.
"It's not a bad idea but I think he should focus more on the inner city," Alvin Font, a 41-year-old health-care worker, said as he sat across from a line of yellowed papers and a scraggly recliner on Park Avenue. "Our streets are very, very bad."
But Joseph Delgado, 20, said he was happy to see any progress.
"It looks like World War II here, like someone just dropped a bomb," he said on Webster Avenue near a ramp onto the Cross Bronx Expressway, an area littered with two strollers, countless paper cups and a few playing cards. "They should clean everything. Why do people pay taxes? Where does that 8 percent go?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an attempt to clean up and repair the Bronx's potholed and garbage-strewn streets, Borough President Fernando Ferrer filed suit against the city yesterday for neglect. Nestled between St. Ann and Eagle Avenues is 159th Street, littered with garbage and potholes that make it unnegotiable for vehicles. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRONX (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; POTHOLES CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); FISHER, IAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



171 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
Victims of Layoffs Seek More Than Job Advice

BYLINE: By Joseph Berger

DATELINE: NEW PALTZ, N.Y.

 BODY:
EXCEPT for the edge of desperation, it seemed like an ordinary convention of thriving professionals. There were registration tables, exhibits, workshops, coffee urns flanked by mounds of glistening danishes.
But the 2,000 people who came to this college town this week were not thriving. They had been laid off, excessed, dislocated or fired in some other euphemistic fashion. Some had journeyed here to nurse bruises that still hadn't healed, others to figure out what they were doing wrong -- why after months of searching they had not landed a job. 
 Those roaming the stark halls of the College at New Paltz's Lecture Center included former managers and analysts, accountants and programmers. Perhaps a third had been let go by I.B.M., the company town for the Hudson Valley. Its cuts of 50,000 workers this year have shattered the economies of Ulster, Dutchess and other counties, with unemployment in Dutchess reaching a record 11.2 percent.
"When I came on in 1985, I thought it was going to be the last company I'd ever work for," said Paul M., who was let go in March as an I.B.M. administrator. "To have that bubble burst was quite an experience, especially at my age."
Paul, who is 53, was waiting to meet a counselor for the New York State Labor Department, which organized the three-day conference. His ready smile could not hide the shame he felt at being unemployed, and the student's desk in which he was cramped did nothing for his psychological stature. When he finally got his counseling session, he lingered for 45 minutes, scavenging for tips that might yield some hope. His severance pay runs out next month.
More resilient at 29, Marianne Milano, a former I.B.M. accountant, said that over eight months she had sent out hundreds of resumes and received only four invitations for interviews. Companies were choosing among unemployed accountants with 15 and 20 years' experience.
"It scares me," she said. "I never thought I'd be out this long. December will be here before you know it, and on a resume a year open doesn't look good."
People who had not had to look for a job in eons signed up for classes in how to brighten resumes and finesse interviews. The class on Civil Service options was as packed as a lifeboat. But underlying practical concerns were deeper worries, about paying mortgages and surviving without medical benefits or pensions. At one table for veterans, a gray-haired man approached with a haunting question. "I used to be with the Air Force," he said. "If something happens to me, I guess I can just go to a veteran's hospital, right?"
The leader of one class compared the feeling of losing a job to the grief felt at a close relative's death. The sufferer, she said, goes through the same stages of denial, anger, depression, acceptance.
Harold Booth was up to anger. Until March, he had been with I.B.M. for 16 years, having forsaken a youthful vision of himself as a jazz critic for security as a buyer of construction services for unshakable Big Blue.
"While working does not totally define you as a human being, everyone looks at you by what you do," he said. "And if you're unemployed, people look at you as though there's something wrong with you."
Patti Sorrentino of Poughkeepsie said she had reached the depression stage. At 47, she has been out of work for two years after losing a medical data-entry job. She has been scrambling for pocket money, cashing in soda bottles and chauffeuring elderly neighbors for the equivalent cab fare. A food shop owner offered her $4.50 an hour to work as a cashier, but she turned him down, having to endure his insulting prediction that she would "come crawling back."
"All these years I've been working to get myself up to $8 an hour," she explained.
One class, titled "Job Loss: Family Impact," drew more than a dozen people who ventured their raw feelings with strangers, using only their first names. Oprah Winfrey confessionals and support group-speak long ago penetrated this dairy farm country. But even cynics could not dimiss the hurt of lives suddenly unhinged.
What everyone seemed to want from their families was understanding. Unemployed people, said one woman, do not want spouses "circling the classified job ads and pasting them on the refrigerator before they even get to the newspaper in the morning."
Fighting back tears, another woman named Patti complained that her husband pushed her to search for the same work she did for I.B.M. for 14 years.
"I hated every morning of going to work," Patti said. "But it's scary. I'm trying to decide what I want to do when I grow up."
"The usual solution is not to grow up," Ruth Hirsch, the family therapist running the class, teased with a gentle smile.
A laugh percolated through the class. People seemed to recognize that wish in themselves even if they knew how futile it was.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OUR TOWNS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT NEW PALTZ (SUNY) HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT NEW PALTZ (SUNY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); INTERVIEWS (85%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); CONTUSIONS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FAMILY (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); VETERANS (62%); AIR FORCES (60%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (60%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (60%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



172 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Home Video

BYLINE: By Peter M. Nichols

 BODY:
Sometimes it's hard to sort out the product messages, price slashing and rebate offers related to hit movies and their videocassettes.
For example, in "Home Alone 2: Lost in New York," which was released on tape last week by Fox, there is a pause in the action at the Plaza Hotel while young Kevin (Macaulay Culkin) announces the hotel's "800" reservations number. It would have taken him several deep breaths to rattle off all the other companies and deals on items from shoelaces to air fares that are tied to the film in promotions. 
 "On 'Home Alone 2,' we had about 35 licensing agreements for 80 to 100 products," said Al Ovadia, president of licensing and merchandising at 20th Century Fox. Mr. Ovadia searches scripts for ways to put products like the Plaza into movies. Another task is to invent and license new products to go with the movies.
"We take 'Home Alone 2' and create derivative products: games, apparel, things of that sort," he said.
Fittingly perhaps, the "Home Alone 2" tape is offered on the Home Shopping Network.
"Films like this give us opportunities to build little businesses around the licensing," said Jim Adams, the vice president for purchasing for the network. "We can bring on a celebrity and build a two- or three-hour show around the concept."
The channel sells other kinds of tapes, but it stopped selling movies several years ago when it couldn't match prices offered by mass merchants.
Now, Mr. Adams said, movie cassettes and licensed products have more potential than ever. In the case of "Home Alone 2," though, the channel is easing back into the movie field by selling the cassette but not the products. Mr. Adams said the network would sell such items with future cassettes.
As for pricing the tape, which Fox released at $24.98, the channel anticipated immediate cuts by discount chains and set its own price at $14.95, which is as low as most mass merchants or lower.
Two other categories of promotion are the rebate and sponsorships.
The "Home Alone 2" box contains a brochure offering discounted American Airlines tickets and Aviva Sports equipment. It also describes a $5 rebate offer on the tape. By buying boxes of Quaker Oats cereal the customer qualifies for the rebate.
The brochure, of course, encourages people to buy more than a videocassette. But Robert DeLellis, the president of Fox's video division, said that such tie-ins with sponsors also give "Home Alone 2" wider exposure and help put it on racks in grocery stores and other outlets.
"It's obvious who you go to for sponsorships," Mr. DeLellis said. "Go look in the film."
American Airlines is featured in both "Home Alone" movies. One item advertised in the video brochure is the Talkboy cassette player Kevin used in the movie to disguise his voice. Mr. Ovadia said the player was especially made for the film by Tiger Electronics, which later got Fox's permission to sell it in stores.
Now, that 800 number again. . . .
 
NEW VIDEO RELEASES
Sommersby
1993. Warner. $94.99. Laser disk, $34.98. 114 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.
 In an Americanized "Return of Martin Guerre," a Confederate veteran named Jack Sommersby (Richard Gere) emerges from a Yankee prison camp to rejoin his wife (Jodie Foster) and reclaim his Tennessee farm. But is it Sommersby? War changes a man, but this person's boot size is two sizes smaller and his dog growls at him. To her growing puzzlement, Laurel Sommersby notices gaps in her husband's memory. Also, the prewar Jack was a bully while this Jack is concerned with things like workers' rights. With its social and economic concerns, Jon Amiel's film seems better suited to the post-Vietnam era and plot machinations only create confusion. But Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times, "Sommersby" is "never boring, largely because of Ms. Foster's beautifully self-possessed presence."
 
Bad Lieutenant
1992. LIVE. $92.98. Laser disk, $34.95. Closed captioned. R rated: 91 minutes; NC-17: 96 minutes.
 With his signature relish for the down and dirty, the director Abel Ferrara burrows into New York's seamy side through the misadventures of a corrupt detective (Harvey Keitel). Corrupt is perhaps too mild a term for the lieutenant, a junkie who caroms around town setting up drug deals and intimidating women. But while the detective has an eye for well-built female corpses, he also has some saving graces. So does Mr. Ferrara, whose brand of super-sleaze works in a film that "would seem outrageously, unforgivably lurid if it were not also somehow perfectly sincere" (Janet Maslin).
 
Ethan Frome
1993. Touchstone. $94.95. 99 minutes. Closed captioned. PG.
 John Madden's film faithfully recreates the framework of Edith Wharton's story about a Massachusetts farmer (Liam Neeson) who, burdened by a mean-spirited wife (Joan Allen) and a harsh existence, falls in love with an orphaned cousin (Patricia Arquette). Like the book, the story is told in flashbacks, but on screen a preacher (Tate Donovan) is introduced to participate in the story and to narrate what Wharton handled with much more grace and precision on the page. "In the place of a nearly perfect novella is a sad and solemn little film that never has a life of its own" (Canby).
 
Swing Kids
1993. Hollywood. $94.95. 110 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.
 On the heels of "Newsies," another recent Disney film about the exploited young, comes a story of teen-age rebellion in Nazi Germany. Again the vehicle is a musical, but rather than striking newsboys demonstrating in the streets, the upstarts have long hair and defy the Brown Shirts by staging big-band dance productions. Eventually, though, the characters, and especially the adults who enter the story, turn the film bloodless, and, "mired in familiar-feeling moments, it flounders" (Maslin).
 
FROM THE PAST
 
The Movies People Missed
Crowd the Best-Renter Lists
 Best-renter lists are always crowded with movies people missed or passed up in theaters. Here are some current examples.
FOREVER YOUNG. With movie-star panache, Mel Gibson carries a mishmash of a film about a freeze-dried World War II pilot who thaws out 50 years later. 1992. Warner. $94.99. Laser disk, $34.98. 102 minutes. Closed captioned. PG.
 MATINEE. A roving B-movie mogul (John Goodman) goes to Key West to hawk his latest flick and cheer up folks during the Cuban missile crisis. 1993. MCA/Universal. $92.95. Laser disk, $34.98. 99 minutes. Closed captioned. PG.
 THE CEMETERY CLUB. Three widows (Ellen Burstyn, Olympia Dukakis and Diane Ladd) pick up the pieces after the deaths of their husbands. 1992. Touchstone. $94.95. Laser disk, $39.99. 107 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.
 LEAP OF FAITH. Jonas Nightengale (Steve Martin) is a big-top preacher with lots of flash, no compunctions and surprising second thoughts. 1992. Paramount. $92.95. Laser disk, $34.95. 110 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.
 JENNIFER 8. A detective (Andy Garcia) chasing a serial killer scours garbage dumps and encounters a blind woman (Uma Thurman). 1992. Paramount. $92.95. Laser disk, $39.95. 127 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.
 CONSENTING ADULTS. In Alan J. Pakula's film a staid couple (Kevin Kline and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) get some adventurous next-door neighbors (Kevin Spacey and Rebecca Miller). 1992. Hollywood. $94.95. 99 minutes. Closed captioned. R.
 SCHOOL TIES. At prep school everybody loves the star quarterback (Brendan Fraser) until they discover he's Jewish. 1992. Paramount. $95.25. Laser disk, $34.95. 110 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.
 USED PEOPLE. A widow (Shirley MacLaine) is advised by family and friends. 1992. Fox. $94.98. 116 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Films like "Home Alone 2," starring Macaulay Culkin, above, stimulate promotions and the licensing of products associated with the film. (Andy Schwartz); "Sommersby," starring Jodie Foster and Richard Gere, is a new video release from Warner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HOME ALONE 2: LOST IN NEW YORK (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FOX INC FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOX INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: RECORDINGS (VIDEO); REBATES; LICENSES LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); RETAILERS (88%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); AIRLINES (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); TRAVEL TICKETS (75%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); AIR FARES (70%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: NICHOLS, PETER M MACAULAY CULKIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



173 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Sleuths at Sea

 BODY:
Many weekend sailors would sooner put into shore than toss a beer can or plastic cup overboard. Regrettably, no comparable sense of environmental stewardship burdens the corporate managers and captains of some of the huge cruise ships that ply America's offshore waters. Conservation groups estimate that of the seven million tons of waste illegally dumped into the oceans, 15 percent can be traced to cruise ships.
Lately, however, tourists with a strong conscience and a talent for undercover work have offered hope. An article in The Times last week reported that Princess Cruise Lines recently paid a record $500,000 fine after pleading guilty to illegal dumping. The crucial evidence was supplied by a Michigan couple, Alvin and Marilyn Levett, who videotaped the crew of the Royal Princess hurling plastic bags into the sea off the Florida Keys. Under a Federal whistle-blowers' program, the couple received half the fine, or $250,000. Two other similar cases are now under Federal investigation. 
 These amateur sleuths have been welcomed by the Coast Guard, which recently expanded its jurisdiction over ocean dumping to include any violation within the U.S.'s exclusive economic zone, extending 200 nautical miles from shore. Given that huge expanse to patrol, it's virtually impossible to catch a violator in the act and nearly as hard to prove the origin of the garbage if and when it washes ashore.
The 1987 Marine Plastic Pollution, Research and Control Act established rules for disposing of all ship-generated garbage and flatly banned dumping plastics, which take 400 years to decompose and kill an estimated one million birds and 100,000 sea mammals and turtles every year.
Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey, whose interest in the problem is kept alive by regular visits to the Jersey Shore, hopes to eliminate incentives for ships to dump illegally. Ships now pay a separate fee to dispose of garbage in port. These fees can run as high as $500 per cubic yard of compressed garbage. Mr. Lautenberg wants to fold that fee into the general docking fee that all ships pay anyway, making it a routine cost of doing business instead of a separate cost inviting illegal behavior.
Perhaps the best antidote, however, would be a general raising of the environmental conscience aboard ship. Errant captains and furtive crew members could study the estimable example of Patrick Kane, a California engineer and amateur golfer who had hoped to spend his maiden voyage swatting balls off the stern of the ship, only to be stymied by the anti-plastic law.
Instead of waiting until the dead of night to fire a few plastic-covered Titleists into the briny deep, Mr. Kane hustled home and created an environmentally friendly golf ball with a cellulose skin and biodegradable core. The "Aquaflyte" doesn't go very far, but it hasn't killed anything either.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: UDET (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (54%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCESS CRUISE LINES (57%); UNIVERSAL DETECTION TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; EDITORIALS; OCEANS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL CRUISES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (77%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); OCEANS (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (76%); ATHLETES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GOLF (72%); CRIMINAL FINES (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (62%); MAMMALS (57%); GUILTY PLEAS (55%); 

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



174 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: At Home Abroad;
A Tale Of Two Cities

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: SINGAPORE

 BODY:
This must be the best-planned, most perfectly maintained city in the world. The streets are clean, the transit system efficient. If you are seen dropping a piece of paper in a park, you may be given an apron and put to work for several hours cleaning up.
Housing is Singapore's most amazing accomplishment. More than 85 percent of the country's population of just under three million people live in apartment buildings put up by the Housing and Development Board, a public body. Virtually all of them own their apartments -- and can sell them, often at a large profit. 
 "What started as a socialist idea has made capitalists of the residents," the board's chairman, Hsuan Owyang, said.
I visited Bishan, a new town of about 110,000 people, half an hour from downtown. It is a mix of high-rise buildings and lower ones, with small parks in each neighborhood, swimming pools, schools, jogging tracks, parking garages. A sign reminds residents of the "Neighborhood Cleanliness Competition."
The Choo family, on the 15th floor of a new and well-maintained building, has an apartment with a master bedroom and bath, two smaller bedrooms, another bath, kitchen and living-dining room. It cost them $60,000 six years ago. They could sell it now for $200,000.
How can public housing work so well in Singapore when it is in such trouble in America? Chairman Hsuan gave a number of reasons.
Every employed Singaporean is forced to put 20 percent of his or her pay, matched by the employer, into a savings fund that cannot be touched until retirement -- except for down payments on public housing units. The board makes loans and subsidizes the interest payments.
The board has a master plan for 50 years ahead, with room for one million more people in what will altogether be 22 new towns. It acquires undeveloped land by condemnation at lower than commercial prices. The Singapore Constitution carefully omitted a property clause.
"The fact that we've had one-party Government up till now has made it smooth," Mr. Hsuan said. "The goal was clear, and we all knew what we wanted."
There is no unemployment to speak of in Singapore. Drugs are hardly a problem. The penalty for importing them is death. Anyone can be tested for drugs at any time, and if the test is positive, sent off for treatment -- without a right to object. The threat of Chinese gangs is controlled by holding about 1,000 suspected gang members in detention without trial.
But there one begins to see the other side of this city-state: the fact that it has an autocratic Government, regulating the lives of its citizens to the tiniest detail, and extraordinarily intolerant of anything that it perceives as a threat to its power.
The People's Action Party has been in power since Singapore became an independent country in 1965. Over the years there have been only a few opposition members in Parliament: at the moment, 4 out of 81 seats.
Last December a 30-year-old neuropsychologist, Dr. Chee Soon Juan, ran against the Prime Minister, Goh Chok Tong, in a parliamentary by-election. He lost but got 25 percent of the vote. He has paid dearly.
In March, Dr. Chee was fired from his position at the National University of Singapore, ostensibly for misusing about $130 in university funds for a courier service -- an expenditure approved by the head of his department, a Government member of Parliament. When he said the firing was political, various university employees made new accusations against him. He told the press the charges were false. They sued him for libel.
If the past performance of Singapore courts is a guide, Dr. Chee will lose the libel actions and be broken financially. All this because he believed, as he told me, that "we can have more democracy and openness and still be efficient."
The crushing of Dr. Chee is not the only symptom of intolerance for criticism. This week Singapore limited the circulation of The Economist because it had not printed promptly enough, in full, official letters disagreeing with statements about Singapore in the magazine.
Singapore's rulers have produced great social benefits for its citizens. But no government can make wise decisions forever in the absence of real criticism. And the intellectual atmosphere here is stifling. Some of the best-educated young people are trying to leave. It is not enough to make the trains run on time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING & DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SINGAPORE SINGAPORE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); TRENDS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



175 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Regulation Can Save Air Industry From Itself;
Give Us a Tax Break

 BODY:

To the Editor:
It strains logic for you to endorse the thrust of the national airline commission recommendations (editorial, July 23), but question the one with the most immediate beneficial effect: a break from excessive taxation.
The commission was right on target in concluding that "the Federal Government imposes a large and disproportionate tax burden on the airline industry that impedes its return to financial health." 
 United States airlines pay hundreds of taxes to state, local, Federal and foreign governments. Ultimately, these and other government-mandated costs are borne by consumers. When ticket prices are raised as little as 1 percent to recover these costs, travel -- and airline revenues -- decline. Such are the economics of the airline industry.
The commission urged that commercial airlines be exempt from new taxes on fuel, which accounts for 15 percent of operating costs. Tax proposals discussed in recent weeks on Capitol Hill threaten to add $500 million a year and more to the costs of an industry that has lost more in the last few years than it has made since the Wright Brothers flew at Kitty Hawk. A financial blow of that magnitude would further harm an industry President Clinton and Congress are committed to resuscitate.
The revenue to be gained from a new tax on commercial aviation fuel is minuscule in the larger scheme of deficit reduction. But it would be enough to ground United States airlines at just the time when many had hoped to see them poised for a financial takeoff.
 
STEVE SMITH
District Director, Marketing
Delta Air Lines
New York, July 29, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TAXATION; FINANCES AIRLINES (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIR FARES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); TICKET SALES (70%); 

PERSON: SMITH, STEVE (DELTA AIR LINES) BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



176 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Australian Hospitals Turn to Recycling

 BODY:

To the Editor:
We in Australia follow your health care debate with great interest. We too are confronted with increasing demands and shrinking resources, new and expensive technology, higher wages and an aging population with increased expectations. 
 We do not have a perfect system, but all have access to care, medical and surgical, regardless of ability to pay. We have waiting lists in public hospitals, and our facilities are strained. What is of surprise to us is that you spend proportionately more of your gross national product on health care than most other Western countries, and yet 30 million of your citizens have no coverage at all.
We have absorbed much from the United States -- we subscribe to your excellent textbooks and journals, encourage our graduates to go to the United States for continuing education and import the best of your medical technology. In one area we may be able to teach you something that would reduce your costs and help leave the planet in better shape.
We have a Health Environment Awareness Link in all teaching hospitals in this city, and it is spreading into smaller health sites throughout Australia. We are looking critically at many expensive, unnecessary and environmentally disastrous practices that crept into our hospitals in the 1980s. We are trying to turn the throw-away decade around by recycling and doing away with so-called single use equipment.
We used to buy disposable scrubbing brushes from the United States that cost our hospital $30,000 a year. We now recycle scrubbing brushes and have modified our scrub procedures so that we need fewer of them. We have abandoned use of disposable surgical drapes, which cost us $30,000 a year, and have gone back to the recyclable linen drapes, which can be sterilized.
We used to use more than 100 kilometers of plastic tubing and threw it out to incineration. We now buy siliconized tubing, recycle and sterilize it. We do not use disposable paper towels in a few areas and have almost done away with disposable diapers.
Clever marketing strategies have seduced hospitals and their employees by insisting disposables were the only way to go -- it was cleaner, safer and cheaper, whereas it is none of these. Savings in one year alone have amounted to $200,000, and this money has been redirected into patient care.
When manufacturers realize we mean business they come up with environmentally better and cheaper alternatives.
 
HARRY COHEN, M.D.
Subiaco, Australia, July 28, 1993
 
The writer is head of the gynecology department at King Edward Memorial Hospital for Women.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUSTRALIA AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; HOSPITALS; FINANCES HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (72%); AGING (72%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COMPANY STRATEGY (61%); 

PERSON: COHEN, HARRY (DR)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



177 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: Reporter's Notebook;
At the Congressional Brink: A Freshman Saves the Day

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5

 BODY:
If politics is theater, as the skeptics say, tonight was classic Hitchcock, with a very large dose of Frank Capra.
There on the House floor, Bill Clinton's budget package and his Presidency clung to credibility every bit like Eva Marie Saint in "North by Northwest," clinging to the face of Mount Rushmore. Mr. Clinton's Democratic supporters held a 216-to-214 margin. 
 Four Democrats still had not voted.
Two of them, Representatives David Minge of Minnesota and Ray Thornton of Arkansas, had been considered likely to vote against the measure, bringing the nays equal to the 216 yeas. The third, Representative Pat Williams of Montana, was sure to support it, giving the yeas a one-vote edge again.
That seemed to leave Mr. Clinton's fate up to Representative Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky, a first-term Pennsylvania Democrat who had voted against the package in May, when it first came before the House.
In the pandemonium, she stood at the front of the House chamber. Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, a supporter of the measure, was grasping her by the shoulders, his face inches from hers, struggling to be heard above the roar of the 432 other lawmakers on the floor. House Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington, jaw tight, stood nearby.
Republicans were flooding the chamber with photocopies of a recent article from The Philadelphia Inquirer and chanting, "Goodbye, Marjorie." It was headlined, "Margolies-Mezvinsky will again cast vote against Democrats." Then the House -- lawmakers, aides, packed gallery, press -- fell utterly silent.
Finally, Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky and Mr. Williams approached the Speaker's dais, filled out green cards signifying yea, and presented them to the clerk. Mr. Minge and Mr. Thornton abruptly turned in their nays, and Mr. Clinton's budget proposal was pulled, abruptly and at the last second, back from the precipice.
Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky, who comes from a conservative district, had cast a potentially career-wrecking vote. Did the Democrats have some votes in reserve? Probably, but that is part of the theater, too.
Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Chicago, who negotiated the budget package with the Senate, stood outside the big door of his office just off the House floor, tears welling up in his eyes and trickling down his face.
"I guess they focused on what was important for the country," he said.
 
Kerrey Agonizes
 Meanwhile, in the Senate, Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, for a while last year a rival for the Presidential nomination and now the last Democrat that Mr. Clinton needs to guarantee the passage of the budget package in that chamber, was having trouble making up his mind.
Mr. Kerrey is legendary for his sincere, if prolonged, public anguish over matters of state, so much so that he gained the nickname "Cosmic Bob" during his brief run for the Presidency last year. Most everyone else among the 100 elders made up their minds about Mr. Clinton's budget package days ago.
Mr. Kerrey's indecision is driving the Administration a little nuts. "Our next trouble spot," one senior Administration official matter-of-factly calls him.
 
Pursuing the Strays
 Not long after dawn broke, the Democratic whips in the House went to the lash.
At 9 A.M., the entire pack met to prepare a list of wavering Democrats and decide which of them would bird-dog which undecideds. At 10:30 A.M., a group of about 15 whips and other lawmakers met for a progress report. They met again and again and again -- at 1:30, at 4, at 6, and just before the breathlessly close vote at the end of a draining day.
Sometimes the targets actually want to be lobbied. Today, it was more of a varmint hunt. The undecideds wanted pressure to vote for a tax increase about as much as Iowa wants more rain, and so they tended to vanish. That forced the Democratic leaders to stage meaningless votes and quorum calls to flush them out of hiding and onto the House floor.
There, like big, expensively dressed and coiffed raccoons caught in car headlights, they were pounced on by the whips and relentlessly blandished with promises of favors and political support. If that didn't work, they were hauled before Speaker Foley or called in for sessions with Administration heavies.
Or with Himself. Representative Bill Sarpalius of Texas talked by phone with Mr. Clinton four times today before deciding, about an hour before the vote, to switch from foe to friend. The President hit him with right and left hooks: a pledge to schedule a vote in Congress on a balanced budget amendment, and the news, at 8 P.M., that 62,219 low-income taxpayers in his district would receive an extra $109 million in tax credits next year should the package pass. "That's pretty impressive," Mr. Sarpalius said.
Representative Norman Mineta of California, as loyal a Democrat as exists, was also rumbling about voting "no" until Mr. Clinton called. Mr. Mineta, a Transportation subcommittee chairman, was angry because revenues from the 4.3-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax were destined for new deficit-reduction trust fund instead of the Highway Trust Fund, where they are reserved for road-building and mass transit.
Mr. Mineta said that was fixed with a promise: that the $22 billionfrom the tax would simply be parked in the deficit fund for five years -- the statutory life of the budget package. And then it would be transferred wholesale into the Highway Trust Fund.
Mr. Mineta said he also mentioned to the President, with only a hint of irritation, that he had written several recent letters to the White House, and that none had been answered. Tonight, a White House aide collared Mr. Mineta on Capitol Hill. He was carrying three responses.
But others were unmoved. As the day dragged on, Representatives Earl Hutto of Florida and Calvin M. Dooley of California, among others, announced that they had switched from being supporters to opponents of the budget package.
Mr. Hutto said he turned down a plea from Mr. Clinton Wednesday night. "I've gotten lots of calls" from citizens who don't like the package, he said. "Lots of calls." Just to emphasize it, he added, "Lots of them."
 
Kerrey Mulls
 Meanwhile, in the Senate, Mr. Kerrey was still undecided. The Senator wasn't available to the press, but today's Omaha World-Herald quoted him as saying he doesn't want to "string these guys along."
Perhaps not, but he was doing a wonderful job of it. His press secretary was asked when he would decide. "I don't know when," the press secretary told The Associated Press. "I wish I could tell you."
 
Statues and Noses
 By late this afternoon, the Democrats were still well shy of the votes they needed to send the budget package to its next bungee-jump, in the Senate. Nobody was smiling as the Democratic lawmakers charged with persuading colleagues to vote for $250 billion in new taxes and $250 billion in Medicare cuts, Social Security reductions and other cuts strode down the Capitol's glittering marble center hall, into the fifth of the day's seven strategy sessions.
Even the statues lining the corridor, historic totems of the first rank, were heavy with portent:
James Paul Clarke, turn-of-the-century Arkansas governor and senator, famous for not replying to constituent mail.
The Rev. Joseph Damien of Hawaii, founder of a leper colony.
Philo T. Farnsworth, Utah favorite son, one of the inventors of television and as such a remote godfather of that maker and breaker of legislative careers, C-Span.
The whips were engaged in a bout of self-flagellation. Bill Clinton's political future lay in their hands, and they were worried that they might drop it.
"We're solid at 200 votes, maybe 206," said one of the chief Democratic vote counters. "We're down 10 votes, but those 10 are very hard to find. They're just not moving the way we want them."
Another, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli of Kentucky, spake the unspeakable: "What would happen if the bill went down? I don't know."
 
Kerrey Ruminates
 Meanwhile, in the Senate, Mr. Kerrey was deliberating. Rumors of an afternoon news conference to disclose his decision proved premature, and he proved inscrutable.
"In a perfect world, where I control everything," The Omaha World-Herald quoted him as saying, "I would vote 'no' on this proposal."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A Reporter's Notebook article yesterday, about the scrambling among Congressional Democrats over the budget, misidentified the House panel headed by Representative Norman Y. Mineta, Democrat of California, in some editions. He is chairman of the Public Works and Transportation Committee, not a transportation subcommittee. The article also reversed the votes of two Democratic Representatives, Pat Williams of Montana and Ray Thornton of Arkansas, in some copies. Mr. Williams voted for the budget bill and Mr. Thornton voted against it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, left, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, joking with a reporter yesterday as he switched places with Representative Dan McCurdy of Oklahoma, center, during a television call-in program held outside the Capitol. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL; MARGOLIES-MEZVINSKI, MARJORIE (REPR) BILL CLINTON (92%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



178 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Israel Minister Meets P.L.O. Aide, Breaking a Longstanding Taboo

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 5

 BODY:
With the knowledge of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, an Israeli Cabinet Minister, Yossi Sarid, met secretly with a senior Palestine Liberation Organization member in Cairo, shattering one of Israel's most rigid political taboos, senior Israeli officials say.
The news of the meeting unleashed an acrimonious exchange in Israel between those who believe that the country must open direct negotiations with the P.L.O. and those who believe that the state should have no contact with what they term a terrorist group. 
 "It is becoming clearer and clearer that this is a Government that has no foreign policy," said the former Foreign Minister and right-wing member of Parliament, David Levy. "The Government is confused. The Prime Minister tells the people, and the Americans, that the P.L.O. cannot be a partner in negotiations. He forbids his ministers to speak positively about the P.L.O. And here we have him pursuing one policy, while his ministers pursue another."
Mr. Levy went on to condemn the Rabin Government for shattering "a political anchor" established by previous Israeli governments.
The only other Israeli minister who reportedly met with the P.L.O. was Ezer Weizman, now the country's President. Mr. Weizman has not denied holding the meeting with a P.L.O. official in 1989. He did so as Minister of Science when such contacts were illegal.
This year the Rabin Government repealed a law forbidding contacts with the P.L.O., but Government officials continue to reject direct negotiations with the group, saying its stated aim is the destruction of the Israeli state.
 
Clearer Policy Urged
 Shimon Shetreet, the Minister of the Economy from Mr. Rabin's Labor Party, called on the Government today to define its policy toward the P.L.O. openly.
"We must determine whether we want to take a stance which even the United States won't take," he said. "The United States to this day doesn't have a dialogue with the P.L.O."
Minister of Tourism Uzi Baram, however, announced that he "welcomed" the news and called for direct talks with the P.L.O.
Mr. Sarid, the Environment Minister and a member of the dovish Meretz Party, met with the P.L.O. official, Nabil Shaath, about 10 days ago, Israeli officials said. Dedi Zucker, a Meretz member of Parliament, was also at the meeting. The two men then reported back to Mr. Rabin.
The meeting was the first by a Cabinet minister who made contact with a P.L.O. representative with the knowledge of the Prime Minister.
Meretz officials and the Prime Minister's office refused to confirm or deny the meeting publicly.
 
Rabin Spokesman Comments
 "Knowledge or lack of knowledge of the Prime Minister about such a meeting, even if it did take place, does not mean it was on behalf of the Prime Minister or the Government or on his instructions," said Gad Ben-Ari, Mr. Rabin's spokesman.
Mr. Ben-Ari said any negotiations would occur only in the framework of the 21-month-old peace negotiations.
The P.L.O., headed by Yasir Arafat, guides the Palestinian delegation to the peace talks. But Israel has steadfastly refused to accept the P.L.O. as a full partner in the peace effort.
The talks have been stalled over proposals to give interim self-rule to the 2 million Palestinians under Israeli occupation.
The P.L.O. garners most of its support from Palestinian emigrants and is increasingly at odds with Palestinian leaders, especially those belonging to the fundamentalist movement Hamas, living in Israeli-occupied territory.
The Palestine Liberation Organization was founded in 1964 under the sponsorship of the Arab League as an umbrella group for all the Palestinian organizations. Al Fatah is the largest group in the P.L.O.
Palestinian officials said the meeting with Mr. Sarid occurred before Israel began its attack on southern Lebanon, but they did not give an exact date.
But even Government ministers who supported the meeting doubted that it accomplished very much.
"Anyone who met certainly had good intentions to further the peace process," Health Minister Chaim Ramon said. "I don't know if this meeting helped or didn't help. I don't want to go into what was talked about there, but the intention was to aid the peace process."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A picture in some editions yesterday with an article about a meeting between an Israeli Cabinet minister and a senior member of the Palestine Liberation Organization was published in error. It showed Yair Tsaban, Israel's Minister of Absorption and Immigration, not Environment Minister Yossi Sarid, the official reportedly involved in the meeting.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yossi Sarid, left, Environment Minister of Israel, who secretly met with Nabil Shaath, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization. The meeting has raised questions about Israel's policy toward the P.L.O. (The New York Times, 1989; Camera Press) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (97%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (97%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (71%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN); SARID, YOSSI (MIN); SHAATH, NABIL TZIPORA LIVNI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



179 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: The Lawyers' Race to the Bottom

BYLINE: By Lincoln Caplan; Lincoln Caplan is author of the forthcoming "Skadden: Power, Money and the Rise of a Legal Empire."

 BODY:
Many lawyers like paradox, and here's one they like especially, because it's about them. Americans despise lawyers, yet we can't get enough of them. The legal thriller -- John Grisham's "The Firm," Scott Turow's "Pleading Guilty" -- is a hot genre, so big it's become a new category in the book business and has crossed over to do major box office at the movies.
To explain their dubious prominence, lawyers like the notion that the law has become America's civic religion. In a country where people are plagued by doubt or divided by creed, the law is said to provide common ground. Americans hate lawyers because we expect them to compare with priests, and are enraged by their shortcomings. We are riveted by legal thrillers because we want to know what's wrong with an institution that should stand for what's right. 
 The American Bar Association is now gathered in New York City for its annual convention, and the group is preoccupied with its base image. This is the first meeting since the A.B.A. hired Michael Scanlon as its communications director. Mr. Scanlon, the former chief executive of the Petroleum Marketing Education Foundation, was brought in to give lawyers a makeover. It's no accident that the meeting is dedicated to the memory of Justice Thurgood Marshall.
Honoring the late Justice is a way to celebrate the ideal of the lawyer-statesman. It presents the lawyer at his or her best, in the tradition of Thomas Jefferson, of Abraham Lincoln, and, for lawyers especially, of Justice Louis D. Brandeis, who preached moral activism for the profession. Robert Gordon of Stanford Law School defined the lawyer-statesman as "the independent citizen, the uncorrupted just man of learning combined with practical wisdom."
Professor Gordon also pointed out that the model has been "so completely eclipsed that it now seems almost a joke." Not just seems. The cartoonist Wiley, in his new book "Dead Lawyers and Other Pleasant Thoughts," says: "There are basic themes to life in the 90's: The perpetual war of the sexes. Lawyers. The economy. Lawyers. Liberal extremists, conservative extremists, religious extremists. Lawyers."
Long before they became the butt of jokes, lawyers worried that they deserved to be. Since the 1970's, the organized bar has experienced a crisis of confidence. The most prominent statement of alarm appeared in a 1986 report called "In the Spirit of Public Service: A Blueprint for the Rekindling of Lawyer Professionalism." It explored the question, "Has our profession abandoned principle for profit, professionalism for commercialism?" In the A.B.A.'s view, the character of lawyering has been severely strained.
The best symbol of things gone bad was the Firm -- the large office of scores of lawyers, if not hundreds, that is darkly portrayed in legal thrillers. The megafirm became the villain in a story of extraordinary change.
As the demand for the services of lawyers increased dramatically (from $8.2 billion in 1960 to $47.5 billion in 1985, in 1985 dollars), so did the supply. Between 1965 and 1990, the number of American lawyers leaped from 296,000 to 800,000, increasing more than four times as fast as the population of the United States.
The essence of megafirm-bashing is this: $$$. In his book "Rascals: The Selling of the Legal Profession," Peter Brown contends that the bar has become blemished by "crime, perfidy, greed and sloth" and that many lawyers treat law "as a trade solely for profit rather than as a profession for service to the public interest." Many of the "greedy ones" are in large law firms, which promote "selfishness" among their partners, the "oppression and abuse" of their associates and a general decline of "manners and morals."
Does the bar stand "in danger of losing its soul," as Anthony Kronman, a professor at Yale Law School, has warned? In this rule-of-law country, the consequences run far beyond the bar. Rather than offering a source of moral purpose, the practice of law has become hollow at its core.
Lauding Thurgood Marshall and emphasizing how his legacy is carried on, the A.B.A. is trying to correct this widespread impression. The real problem, however, is not that the image of lawyers is wrong but that it captures reality.
The problem is simply what lawyers do for a living. They define themselves primarily through their relationships with clients, not with society. To some lawyers, there's no compromising the devotion owed a client. Lawyers serve the public interest best, they maintain, by representing clients zealously, with total commitment. By contrast, others have proposed a redefinition of the concept of advocacy so that, besides serving a client, a lawyer strives to fulfill obligations to society as well.
The clash is fundamental. In 1977, lawyers began what the scholar Theodore Schneyer called "the most sustained and democratic debate about professional ethics in the history of the American bar." An early version of proposed changes in the bar's code of conduct was drafted boldly to include rules of wide interest to the public and to lawyers, like a requirement that every lawyer give 40 hours a year of free legal service, as a general contribution to American justice.
This and other recommendations proved highly controversial. In 1983, the bar's code was rewritten to finesse all controversy. Its final form confirmed the bar's passage from an organization defined by tradition, whose character as a profession was said to derive from its own virtue, to one shaped by expediency.
In the old model of legal ethics, the lawyer's duty to represent a client zealously was tempered by his responsibility to do so "within the bounds of the law." It was assumed that those bounds could be identified. Now that much of the law is seen as vague and changeable, the duty of zealous advocacy seems to overwhelm lawyers' sense of responsibility to operate within legal bounds, in part because the bounds don't amount to much when the law is so variable.
Even lawyers known for care and caution feel obliged to test the limits of propriety in the name of professional duty. As Professor Gordon of Stanford Law School said, "The lawyer under such an ethical regime is by vocation someone who helps clients find ways around the law," although the outcome may be unsavory.
The popular culture has got it right, and the bar has no one to blame but itself. The current ethos among lawyers has led to a race to the bottom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: AB A M WICKMANS EFTR (83%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ETHICS; LAWYERS LAWYERS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GUILTY PLEAS (57%); 

PERSON: CAPLAN, LINCOLN JOHN GRISHAM (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993



180 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:

What's in an Index?
Q What stocks make up the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index?
 
E.K. MALEWICZ, Fairfield, Conn.
A First off, the index does not contain the 500 largest stocks. Standard & Poor's has identified 88 groups in four major segments of the economy and selected stocks from various exchanges in each group. Although additions and deletions are made periodically, the index now has 385 industrial stocks, 45 utility stocks, 55 financial stocks and 15 transportation stocks. 
 "As of year-end 1992, the index had a market value of $3.01 trillion, representing 70 percent of the market value of publicly traded equity securities," said Elliott Shurgin, S.& P.'s vice president for index products.
 
Money for Minors
Q Is there a way to give money to a grandchild who is a minor solely for that grandchild's future?
 
 SANDRA POVMAN, Flushing, Queens
A One of the best ways is to create a trust, called a Section 2503(c) trust, for the benefit of your grandchild. The trustee can be anyone you choose -- even your spouse -- but for tax purposes, you should not be the trustee.
Another possibility is an account at a bank or mutual fund company under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act, known in some states as the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act. You can select, within certain limits, the custodian to manage the assets for your grandchild.
"A difference between the two is that such trusts can be arranged to end when your grandchild turns 21, but state law determines when a custodian account ends," said Ralph M. Engel, a partner of Rosen & Reade, a New York law firm. "Another difference is that while a trust will be more expensive to create, it is generally more flexible and may save on income taxes."
 
Finding Investment Data
Q Is it possible to use annual reports as the primary information source for investing?
 
 JOHN KAYE, San Francisco
A A corporation's annual report is certainly an important source of information for investors. But it is not the only source and should be considered in conjunction with other company data, investment service reports and applicable newspaper and magazine articles.
Among the sections contained in a company's annual report that should be scrutinized are the letter from the chairman, management's discussion and analysis and comments regarding research and development. Facts about competitive position, new patents and planned expansion beyond existing markets are valuable indicators of growth opportunities.
"A good annual report should cover not only activities of the prior year but also the plans for the upcoming year and beyond," said Barry M. Murphy, the director of marketing for the National Association of Investors Corporation. "Reports that do not address the future of the company -- new markets, products or services," he added, "may signal a company that has lower prospective growth."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (65%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: YORK LAW FIRM (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (93%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TAX LAW (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



181 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
A Walk Offstage, Holding Fate of Budget

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
With the capital waiting to learn whether Senator Bob Kerrey would sink or save President Clinton's budget plan, what did the inscrutable Nebraska Democrat do?
Did he repair to the Library of Congress to study precedents? Did he call his pollster for a last-minute reading? 
 Not on Thursday afternoon. Instead, he wandered out of the Senate chamber alone and spent a good part of the afternoon in a dark theater watching "What's Love Got to Do With It?" -- a movie about the singer Tina Turner.
It was not until after 8:30 tonight, in a speech on the Senate floor, that Mr. Kerrey, addressing the President, let it be known that he had decided to vote for Mr. Clinton's budget. "I could not and should not cast the vote that brings down your Presidency," he said.
Mr. Kerrey, known to some as "Cosmic Bob," has never been a conventional politician, and that is what bothered White House officials the most as they tried to gain his support for the budget. While they could win over other senators with promises of pork, it was never clear what it would take to get Mr. Kerrey on their side.
In fact, it was never clear precisely why Mr. Kerrey, who is expected to coast to re-election next year no matter how he voted, took so long. Was he seeking revenge on the man who beat him to the White House in a sometimes bitter primary campaign and then denied him the Vice Presidency? Was he relishing all the attention? Or, as Mr. Kerrey himself insisted, was he simply unable to make up his mind?
 
'Having a Difficult Time'
 When he arrived on the Senate floor tonight, it was with a burst of understatement. "I've taken too long, I'm afraid, to reach this decision," he said. "My head, I confess, aches with all the thinking. But my heart aches with the conclusion -- that I will vote yes for a bill which challenges America too little -- because I do not trust what my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will do if I say no."
Mr. Kerrey then launched into what appeared to be an indictment both of his colleagues and the White House, urging Mr. Clinton to get off "the low road of the too-easy compromise or the too-early collapse."
His comments capped an extraordinary day in which no one could say which way Mr. Kerrey was going to go.
Speaking to reporters hours before he made up his mind, Mr. Kerrey framed the decision in cosmic terms. "There is no moral consensus," he said. "And as a result, we're having a difficult time deciding what to do."
But with all of his colleagues' minds made up, the truth is that only Mr. Kerrey was having quite so monumentally difficult a time deciding.
So with only his vote separating victory from defeat, the White House staged a frantic campaign to convince Mr. Kerrey that, yes, a moral consensus could still be achieved. It started with a 90-minute meeting with Mr. Clinton this morning in the White House living quarters.
Officials were so solicitous that they moved Mr. Kerrey's car in a downpour so he would not have to face a pack of reporters waiting for him outside. Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, joked that a room in the White House might be renamed in Mr. Kerrey's honor if he voted right.
Moods swung as people tried to handicap what Mr. Kerrey would do. One Senate official said, "It's safe to say that the White House was seized with fright" that Mr. Kerrey might vote against the budget.
But by this afternoon, Susan Brophy, the deputy White House Congressional liaison, was not biting her nails. "I know everybody is looking at this process with horror, but I think most people are being straight shooters with this thing," she said. "If Bob Kerrey were trying to hurt this Administration, he would have announced three days ago that he was voting against this bill. That would have totally tipped the cards off the table."
 
'I Teetered on the Edge'
 Yet after his announcement, Mr. Kerrey insisted to reporters tonight that his agonizing was no act. "I teetered on the edge all day long," he said.
The 49-year-old Mr. Kerrey, who lost a leg while serving in Vietnam, harshly criticized Mr. Clinton as a draft dodger during last year's primary campaign. But people close to the Senator maintain that any animosity is now gone.
"A lot of the younger campaign staff veterans who work at the White House now probably think that this is Kerrey's revenge," said Billy Shore, a close adviser to Mr. Kerrey. "But I actually think his relationship with Clinton has been terrific. The campaign is way into history for him."
In an interview some weeks ago, Mr. Kerrey spoke almost fondly of Mr. Clinton. Asked to assess him as a leader, he replied: "He's not confused. He's not bewildered. He's got a set of things he wants to get done. And I don't see in my field of view a man who's in personal turmoil."
Almost the opposite could be said of Mr. Kerrey, at least today, as he engaged in very public soul searching. In conversations Thursday and today with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Kerrey spoke not of minute provisions in the package but about bigger issues, like the United States's role in the world.
Such hesitancy is no surprise to those who have watched Mr. Kerrey. He mulled over the issue for days before deciding to oppose the use of force in the Persian Gulf.
It was barely two months ago that Mr. Kerrey agonized in much the same way before voting on the Senate's version of Mr. Clinton's budget. But in recent days he began to change his tune, saying he had hoped the House-Senate conference committee would make more spending cuts.
That Mr. Kerrey should focus on cutting costs is not surprising. He comes from a conservative state, and he has always emphasized governmental economy.
But Mr. Kerrey was also branded as aimless, even flaky, during the Presidential campaign. He sometimes seemed detached, as if he were on a mission to save the country but unable to articulate exactly where he was going.
 
'Fascinating and Interesting'
 "He listens to his own drummer," said Bob Shrum, a political consultant who has advised Mr. Kerrey. "This is someone who doesn't fit the normal political categories. And that's what makes him fascinating and interesting and also makes him difficult at times for other people to deal with."
So all some people could do today was make light of the predicament as they sat on the sidelines and waited. And waited.
Asked if he had seen Mr. Kerrey on the Senate floor, Senator Trent Lott, a Mississippi Republican, replied: "Oh, Kerrey, I saw him float over the chamber. He's communing."
But even the often solemn Mr. Kerrey found some humor in the situation. After his tete-a-tete with the President, he said he felt like Robin Ventura, the Chicago White Sox baseball player who was in a brawl this week with Nolan Ryan, the Texas Rangers' pitcher.
"I'm Ventura," Mr. Kerrey quipped. "He's Nolan Ryan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Kerrey speaking to reporters after he cast the swing vote for the budget last night. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBRARIES (77%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (77%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; KERREY, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



182 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
Excerpts From Clinton's Talk After Approval of His Budget

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's comments at the White House yesterday after passage of his five-year economic plan, as recorded by the New York Times:
After 12 long years we can say to the American people tonight, We have laid the foundation for the renewal of the American dream. The days of endless gridlock, rising deficits and trickle-down economics are over. The days of economic growth and real opportunity for the working families of this country have begun. 
 This was not easy, but real change is never easy. It is always difficult. It is always easier to sustain the status quo and to talk as if you were changing. But that is not why I was elected President, nor is it why we were sent here.
When we came here, our national debt had quadrupled in 12 years, and the incomes of our forgotten working families had been stagnant for nearly 20 years. Our heritage of investment in our people, in our economy, had been gradually forsaken and the people of our nation questioned whether anyone here in this city would take responsibility for our future, change the direction of our country, and insure a better life for them and their children.
 
Seizing Economic Destiny
 After a long season of denial and drift and decline, we are seizing control of our economic destiny. To be sure, as I have said repeatedly, this is just the beginning, just the first step in our attempts to assert control over our financial affairs, to invest in our future and to grow our economy; to deal with the health care problems, the welfare reform problems, the problems of crime in the streets, and the other things that deal with the daily fabric of life for our people.
But make no mistake about it, this is a very, very important beginning.
The economic program that Congress passed tonight puts $500 million into a trust fund, locked away for deficit reduction; $255 million in specific, real, enforceable spending cuts -- tax cuts for 20 million working Americans with marginal incomes who are trying to raise their children. This will reward their desire to choose work over welfare. It is an important advance in the fabric of opportunity and responsibility in this country.
This new direction includes new opportunities for the sons and daughters of middle-class families to go to college, because it reforms the student loan program in ways that make student loans more accessible to more people and cuts the cost in the program through waste reduction. It provides immunizations to give a healthy start to millions of American children; it provides significant new incentives for small businesses to grow and expand.
In this sharp departure from business as usual, this program will create jobs, reduce the deficit and put the American people first.
 
American Dream
 In the lifetime of this country, the courage and wisdom of the American people in difficulty have always prevailed when we faced a challenge and needed a change. Sometimes in the past they have prevailed by the narrowest of margins in the beginning, but always picking up steam, always marching confidently toward the future. That will be true in this time as well.
We are determined not to let the American dream founder. We are determined to stop avoiding our problems and start facing them, to embrace them as challenges, to turn them into opportunities, to seize the future that rightfully belongs to every American willing to work hard, play by the rules and take care of their children.
We are determined that the next generation of Americans will inherit a brighter future than we have known, just as we did from our parents. For more than two centuries, that has been the promise of the American dream. Tonight, because of the bold action taken by courageous men and women in the House and the Senate, that dream will not be deferred but, rather, be fulfilled.
I am profoundly grateful tonight for the opportunity to stand here, not simply as President but as an American citizen, seeing our nation once again roll up our sleeves together, tackle our problems and march to tomorrow.
Thank you, and God bless you all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENT LOANS (88%); APPROVALS (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX RELIEF (66%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



183 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2037 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
CLINTON WINS APPROVAL OF HIS BUDGET PLAN AS GORE VOTES TO BREAK SENATE DEADLOCK

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
With Vice President Al Gore casting the tie-breaking vote, the Senate gave final Congressional approval tonight to President Clinton's five-year economic program.
This means that the budget plan, the most important legislative issue of the Clinton Presidency so far, cleared Congress by the narrowest possible margin and awaits only the President's signature before becoming law. Enactment of the legislation was viewed at the White House as essential to Mr. Clinton's ultimate success as President. 
 The outcome was in doubt until Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, the last Senator to announce which way he would vote, declared on the Senate floor at 8:30 P.M. that he would support Mr. Clinton. [Roll-call, page 6.]
 
Clinton Thanks Backers
 At the White House today, Mr. Clinton met for more than an hour with Senator Kerrey in the morning and spent much of the rest of the day on the telephone thanking Democrats who had voted for his plan in the House of Representatives.
After the Senate vote, President Clinton emerged from the White House to greet cheering supporters who had gathered at the front steps.
"This was not easy, but real change is never easy," he told them. "After 12 long years, we can say to the American people tonight, We have laid a foundation for a renewal of the American dream." [Excerpts from the President's remarks and the Senate debate, pages 7 and 8.]
When the vote was announced on the Senate floor, about 75 Clinton aides who had gathered in the Roosevelt Room of the White House erupted in prolonged cheers, whoops and applause.
The staff members greeted Lloyd Bentsen, the Treasury Secretary, Leon E. Panetta, the budget director, and Roger C. Altman, the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, by chanting their names as if they were rock stars.
"Leon, Leon!," they shouted. "Roger, Roger!"
An identical version of the $496 billion deficit-cutting measure was approved Thursday night by the House, 218 to 216. The Senate was divided 50 to 50 before Mr. Gore voted. Since tie votes in the House mean defeat, the bill would have failed if even one representative or one senator who voted with the President had switched sides.
The official final vote in the 100-member Senate was an oddity, 51 to 50.
Wrapping up the debate with about half the senators in their seats, Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee, chairman of the Budget Committee, called the President's plan "a watershed in American fiscal history."
George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Democratic leader, declared: "The American people want change. They voted for change last year. And tonight we're going to deliver change. President Clinton has given us a fair plan. I say it's fair to give him a chance."
But Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the top Republican on the Budget Committee, said the increased taxes in the program would devastate the economy. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, said the main flaw in the plan was that the tax increases would be retroactive to the first of this year, while most of the spending cuts would occur after the next election.
"This President will go down in history," Mr. Dole asserted, "as the only President who raised taxes before he took office and cut spending after he left office."
 
Closest of Votes
 Donald A. Ritchie, the associate Senate historian, said that over the decades very few votes on such a significant matter had been decided by such close margins. He mentioned two: the bid to convict Andrew Johnson on impeachment charges in 1868, which failed in the Senate by one vote, and the extension of the military draft in 1941 on the cusp of World War II, which passed in the House by one vote.
In the House Thursday, every Republican voted against the economic plan, and all Republican senators had announced their opposition before the Senate debate began. All but six Democratic Senators had announced that they would vote for it. Historians believe that no other important legislation, at least since World War II, has been enacted without at least one vote in either house from each major party.
Mr. Kerrey, the swing vote, played Hamlet all day.
At 6 P.M., White House officials and Senate Democratic leaders said that they believed Mr. Kerrey was on their side but admitted that they did not know for sure. At 7:55, his fellow Nebraskan, Senator J. James Exon, indicated to the Senate in a speech that he did not know how Mr. Kerrey would vote.
When Mr. Kerrey announced his position to the Senate, he said he did not trust the Republicans to improve the economy if he decided to vote with them to kill Mr. Clinton's plan. Addressing the President, he declared, "I could not and should not cast a vote that brings down your Presidency."
Mr. Kerrey had called the President at the White House only moments earlier to inform him of his decision. After their meeting this morning, Mr. Clinton called Mr. Kerrey in the Senate cloakroom to urge him once again to support the plan.
"Obviously, the President's very happy about Senator Kerrey's vote," Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said tonight after the announcement.
 
Partisan to Core
 On the surface, the debate in the Senate turned on the question of what effect the economic plan would have on the economy. But almost every speech had a partisan tone. And the central underlying issue, simply put, was political victory or defeat -- whether President Clinton would win his first big fight with Congress or whether, six months into his term, he would be another President faced with failure.
Phil Gramm of Texas, who may run for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1996, declared: "I believe this program is going to make the economy weak. I believe hundreds of thousands of people are going to lose their jobs. I believe Bill Clinton will be one of those people."
But Democrats said Mr. Clinton deserved credit for trying to clean up a fiscal mess created by his Republican predecessors. "Supply-side theories just flat didn't work," said John Glenn of Ohio.
And Bill Bradley of New Jersey spoke of the "pattern of irresponsibility of the last 10 years" in which a deficit was run up that "like acid, eats away at our future prospects."
Americans demanded change, Mr. Bradley said, and that was what "swept Bill Clinton into the White House and brought this plan before us today."
Most of the senators who spoke in favor of the legislation said they were opposed to parts of it. But they said the alternative -- to pass nothing -- was much worse.
Senator Kerrey was perhaps the most critical of plan among those who voted for it. "My heart aches with the conclusion that I will vote 'yes' for a bill which challenges Americans too little," he said.
 
Technical Debate
 What happened in the Senate for most of the day and into the evening was a debate only in the technical sense. Mostly, senators stood one after another and delivered long speeches with hardly any other senators around. Many of them used four-color charts and pointers to illustrate their points. This is what the Greatest Deliberative Body in the World has become in the television era.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, the top Senator on tax issues, delivered a rambling, extemporaneous speech to an empty chamber this morning on the fall of the Soviet Union and on the economic theories of Prof. William J. Baumol of New York University and several other topics that popped into his mind.
If there was a topic sentence, it was probably this: "We don't want the kind of disarray that settled on our cold war opponent to settle on us."
Unlike the House members, many of whom were on the fence when the debate began, all senators but Mr. Kerrey had announced how they would vote before today. It is safe to say that no one's position was changed by any one else's speech.
 
Speaker Sees Risks
 The pace was quite a contrast with that at the end of the debate in the House on Thursday, when the vote went down to the wire after impassioned speeches by Congressional leaders.
Today, House Democratic leaders seemed like someone the day after successful surgery: sore and a bit bloody but enormously relieved that it was over and that the outcome had been positive.
Thomas S. Foley of Washington, the Speaker of the House, told reporters at lunch that he was enormously proud of his troops and that he resented the notion that lawmakers were afraid to take political risks for the good of the country.
"A lot of raw guts were shown there from time to time by people who were willing to lay down their offices," he said.
Mr. Foley promised that further deficit-reduction measures would be forthcoming, and he said they would not involve higher taxes. "This has to be the first step in a series of hard things we have to do in the next few years," he said.
Among White House strategists, the view was that the next step was to convince the public that the plan was a wise one. "Do you think Bob Dole is going to stop talking about the President's package after tonight as tax and spend?" a Presidential assistant said. "We cannot allow the people who opposed this plan to define it."
Because the decisions of House-Senate conference committees cannot be amended and because budget rules do not allow filibusters, the Republicans who opposed the measure were relegated to offering points of order against various provisions of the legislation in order to force votes.
One of those challenged the constitutionality of making the bill's income tax increases for affluent taxpayers retroactive to Jan. 1 on the ground that it violated the "due process" clause of the Constitution.
In fact, most tax measures include retroactive provisions, and the Supreme Court settled the matter long ago. But the point of order allowed Republicans to force a vote on one of the most unpopular aspects of the Democratic program.
"To retroactively impose taxes on the living and the dead back to Jan. 1, 1993, is the height of unfairness," said John McCain of Arizona. "It establishes a precedent that ought to frighten every American."
The point of order was rejected, 56 to 44, on nearly a straight party-line vote.
 
Tax Rate Up
 The bill would raise the top income tax rate, now 31 percent, to 36 percent for single taxpayers on taxable incomes from $115,000 to $250,000 and for couples with taxable incomes from $140,000 to $250,000. Incomes above $250,000 would be subject to a 39.6 percent rate.
Taxable income is the remainder after deductions and personal exemptions are subtracted from adjusted gross income. A taxable income of $140,000 normally means a total income of about $180,000, and a taxable income of $250,000 implies a total income of over $300,000.
The Administration calculates that only the top 1 percent of taxpayers would be affected by higher rates.
Other tax provisions include these:
*A 4.3-cent increase in the 14.1-cent-a-gallon Federal tax on gasoline.
*An increase to 35 percent from 34 percent in the corporate income tax rate.
*An expansion of the earned-income tax credit, which provides tax reductions, and in some instances rebates, for low-income workers.
*An increase to 85 percent from 50 percent in the amount of Social Security benefits subject to income taxes for upper-income and some middle-income retirees.
*A reduction to 50 percent from 80 percent in the portion of business meals and entertainment that can be deducted.
*Denial of deductions for club dues.
*New tax breaks for small businesses and real estate investors.
 
Capping Entitlements
 Projected spending would be reduced by more than $250 billion over the next five years, mainly by cutting military spending and putting limits on how much Medicare spending can rise.
Entitlement programs -- those like Social Security that pay benefits to everyone who meets certain eligibility requirements -- could be expanded only if other entitlements were cut or taxes were raised to offset the additional cost.
Programs that are subject to annual appropriations -- all those that are not entitlements -- would be subject to an overall freeze, and if spending is increased for one program, it will have to be cut for another.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leon E. Panetta, left, budget director, Thomas F. McLarty 3d, center, White House chief of staff, and Roger Altman, Deputy Treasury Secretary, at the President's news conference last night after the vote. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader, left, speaking with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, right, and Senator Pete V. Domenici, after the budget vote was passed on the Senate floor last night. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)(pg. 6); President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore celebrating last night after the Senate passed the budget. (Reuters)(pg. 1)
 
Graph: "Tracking the Deficit" shows budget projections based on President Clinton's ecomonic plan. (Source: House Budget Committee)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KERREY, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (91%); LEON E PANETTA (89%); ROGER ALTMAN (85%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



184 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: Reporter's Notebook;
The Joy of Being Undecided: Senators Bask in the Lights

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
If nothing else is clear after the three-month public debate over President Clinton's budget package that ended tonight, this is: the Senate is not the House. Not in style, not in oratory, not in political machinations. The House is lightning, unpredictable and borne along by political squall lines that trigger sudden ruckuses and then die.
The Senate is the lightning bug, but would clearly prefer to be known by the more dignified Latin appellation: lampyridae. 
 Maybe nothing underscores that more than the two climactic votes on Mr. Clinton's economic program, in the House on Thursday and in the Senate tonight. Days before the House vote, Democratic leaders pronounced their grip secure and predicted that the budget package would be approved by what passes, in Landslide Bill Clinton's Administration, for a comfortable margin.
Instead, the bill passed by the very narrowest of margins and its fate was decided by a freshman Representative, Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky, who had gone unknown and unnoticed until then, and who promptly went on vacation and into seclusion.
Compare that with the Senate, where Mr. Clinton's bill was in equally dire straits, but where the wavering senators do not merely stand out, but often thrust themselves before the television cameras to insure that they do so. Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma, one such Democrat, held news conferences to declare that he might or might not support the measure. Senator Dennis DeConcini and Senator Bob Kerrey, until this week undecided Democrats from Arizona and Nebraska, have literally run gantlets of lobbyists and reporters who resemble nothing so much as teen-age girls at rock concerts.
This is not to say that most senators do not like it.
"The senators all believe they have a national constituency," said Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell, a Colorado Democrat who served four terms in the House before moving across the Capitol this year. Then he voiced a novel idea: "My opinion is, if you're going to vote for or against it, you ought to vote and shut up. This idea of holding a press conference to say you're undecided is really something."
Mr. Campbell was collared as he was ducking down a set of stairs to dodge the throng of reporters and lobbyists who hang out at the Senate's elevator banks, waiting for sound bites.
"Like being attacked by a plague of locusts," he grumbled. "Now I know what a grain of wheat feels like."
 
Polite Peck on the Check
 The Senate even high-fives in more muted, magisterial fashion than the House. The House, after Wednesday's two-vote victory, was a high-school gym in which the crowd swarmed onto the court after an unheralded freshman fired the game-winning goal. The celebration -- wild cheers, raised arms, clenched fists -- spilled out of the cloakrooms and into the marble halls. There are reports, reliable but unverified, that spirits may have been consumed on the premises during the voting process.
The Senate? Vice President Al Gore cast the tie-breaking vote in dead silence and declared the measure passed. Some in the gallery and many Democrats let forth a huzzah, and Mr. Gore promptly gaveled them down in the manner of a schoolmarm rapping knuckles.
The revelry that followed was in the Senate tradition, that is to say, something akin to the receiving line for relatives of the deceased. Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, strode over and shook the hand of Jim Sasser, the Democrat who heads the Budget Committee and was the titular leader of the debate. Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, shook the hand of the vanquished Republican leader, Bob Dole. Democratic senators Carol Moseley-Braun of Illinois and Diane Feinstein of California hugged. Pushing the envelope, Mr. Bradley hugged a Texas Republican, Kay Bailey Hutchison, and Democrat Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware pecked Ms. Moseley-Braun on the cheek.
Then they capped off the victory with a jolly round of talking, which Mr. Gore promptly gaveled down, again and again. Mr. Sasser tried to make a brief speech praising his staff, but Mr. Gore's gavel and the low buzz of conversation drowned him out. "I'm standing two feet from the Senator from Tennessee, and I can't hear him," Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont complained, in best party-pooping fashion.
Mr. Sasser finally gave up and asked Mr. Gore to print his full remarks in the Congressional Record. Then everyone went home.
 
Bargaining Chips Wanted
 No one really knew until the very last moment whether the key holdout, Mr. Kerrey, would deal his party and the White House a mortal blow. But the Democratic senators coming on and off the elevators today offered no hint of that. Rather, they were jovial, in a senatorial sort of way.
"I've bolted," Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey told the usuals, trying to persuade them that he had switched to oppose Mr. Clinton's package. "I'm off the bill. Think I'm kidding? Read my statement."
A reporter, perhaps thinking of the billions in concessions that other senators have extracted for their votes, corrected Mr. Bradley. "Bolting doesn't get you anything," he said. "You have to waver."
Mr. Bradley burst out laughing. "I'm wavering!" he cried as the doors closed, "I'm wavering! Fifteen years here and I'll learn."
 
Cool Hand on the Phone
 The telephone was spouting brimstone on Thursday morning in Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's office: big chunks of invective about the White House budget package aimed at the New York Democrat, who is one of its principal architects. But Senator Moynihan's receptionist, a lean man with deep-set eyes and graying hair, was unfazed.
As caller after caller railed against the Administration package and called for Congress to enact more spending cuts, the receptionist calmly defended Mr. Moynihan's handiwork and suggested that the Republicans, not Democrats, were to blame for deficits. When one North Carolina supporter of Ross Perot called the Democrats reckless budget-busters, he deftly suggested that the caller dial up the Senator Dole, who had tried just hours ago to add $4 billion to an Administration flood-relief bill.
Not bad for a phone jockey. But, of course, this was not Mr. Moynihan's regular receptionist. It was Senator Kerrey who had dropped by Mr. Moynihan's office for a head-clearing talk and decided as a lark to field constituent calls.
The callers never knew that, for a few minutes, they had the ear that lobbyists, lawmakers and the President longed for.
"If there was anyone in Washington they wanted to talk to, this was the guy," one Moynihan aide said. "Moynihan's vote was already committed. But this was the one single guy in the United States Senate who could decide the President's fate."
 
Flourishes Good and Bad
 Every debate has its oratorical aeries and gulleys, too. Not surprisingly, the inspired high point may have been reached by Mr. Moynihan, who was innocently asked this week how he enjoyed his first opportunity to put together a budget measure.
"It's like the fabled parson's egg," he replied without missing a beat. "Some parts are better than others."
A day of research produced the conclusion that Mr. Moynihan was alluding to a cartoon in the November 9, 1895 issue of Punch, the British magazine, in which a young clergyman is depicted eating a spoiled egg and saying, apparently to conceal his revulsion, that "parts of it were excellent."
Pin another ribbon on Mr. Dole, the Republican leader and master of the rhetorical short knife, for his warning tonight, just before the budget package passed, to the television audience. "All you viewers out there watching this debate on CNN and C-SPAN," he said. "Put down your remote control and grab your wallet, because your taxes are going up." That even drew a rare burst of applause from the gallery.
The low point? We almost forgot. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, delivering his assessment of the package tonight: "If you vote for this bill," he said, "you're voting for deep doo-doo."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); POP & ROCK (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; MARGOLIES-MEZVINSKY, MARJORIE (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



185 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-4
 
SERBIAN PLEDGE IS DOUBTED
Serbian forces appeared to hedge on a pledge to relax the siege of Sarajevo, raising doubts among United Nations officers on whether the withdrawals would be made. 1 

U.S. will give U.N. commanders veto on Bosnia air strike targets. 4
 
NORWEGIAN WHALING CRITICIZED
In an odd twist of fate, Norway is drawing criticism from environmentalists and facing American trade sanctions for pursuing a traditional industry -- whaling. 1
 
JAPAN ELECTS PRIME MINISTER
Morihiro Hosokawa became Japan's first non-Liberal Democratic Prime Minister in 38 years, and Takako Doi became the first woman to be Speaker of the lower house. 3
 
CLASHES KILL 3 ISRAELIS, 1 ARAB
Three Israeli soldiers and an armed Palestinian were killed in the occupied West Bank during clashes with Muslim militants opposed to efforts at peace, army officials said. 3
 
RUSSIAN REFORMS CHALLENGED
President Yeltsin convened an expanded meeting of his divided Government while Parliament tried to suspend his privatization program for the second time in a month. 4
 
London Journal: Buckingham Palace is opening to the public. 2
 
National 5-8, 28
 
BUDGET PASSES, NARROWLY
With Vice President Al Gore casting the tie-breaking vote, the Senate gave final approval to President Clinton's five-year economic plan. The outcome was in doubt until Senator Bob Kerrey announced that he would support the package. 1
 
THE SCENE ON THE HILL
At the Senate, a day of news conferences, speeches and angry phone calls from constituents. 1
 
'COSMIC' BOB PONDERS
Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, holder of the crucial vote on the budget, did things his own way. 1
 
FLATTERY AND PROMISES
The excruciatingly slim victory for President Clinton's budget package in the House of Representatives on Thursday was fabricated from equal parts of flattery, cajolery and promises of sweetmeats to come. 7
 
Some New Jersey Democrats broke ranks and vote no. 8
 
The Senate confirmed Judge Louis Freeh as the new F.B.I. chief. 8
 
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE DROPS
The nation's unemployment rate edged down to 6.8 percent in July, the lowest rate in nearly two years. The numbers suggest that the improvement in the job market that took hold in the winter is continuing. 1
 
DOLE CAMPAIGN FINED
Senator Bob Dole's 1988 campaign for President has agreed to pay more than $120,000 in civil penalties for election law violations, the largest settlement for any Presidential campaign organization. 5
 
TORNADO HITS CITY IN VIRGINIA
A powerful tornado hit a Virginia city, devastating a historic district, killing at least three people and injuring 150 or more. 5
 
HOW TO FIGHT THE RIVER
Two Illinois towns cleaning up after the Mississippi River floods consider different approaches in handling future disasters. 5
 
CHOOSING JURORS IN RIOT TRIAL
Lawyers began interviewing prospective jurors in the trial of two black men accused of beating a white truck driver during the Los Angeles riots. 28
 
Beliefs: Who is Jewish? A debate continues. 28
 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian detailed how he helped a man commit suicide.28
 
A jury said a Philadelphia lawyer had harassed a colleague. 28
 
Metro Digest 23
 
SCHOOL ASBESTOS TESTS FLAWED
New York City officials have determined that asbestos tests to certify the safety of every city public school are so unreliable as to be meaningless. The officials yesterday described the Board of Education's asbestos testing as grossly mismanaged, incompetent and possibly fraudulent. 1
 
Business Digest 37
 
Arts/Entertainment 9-17
 
Salzburg Fest's embattled chief. 9
 
A dream chess match. 9
 
Film: 'The Meteor Man.' 9
 
Music: Tafelmusik. 9
 
Beethoven at Mostly Mozart. 12
 
Roach updates a protest. 15
 
Borodin Trio and guest. 16
 
Three untypical bands. 17
 
Obituaries 29
 
Henry Pharoun, a former Foreign Minister of Lebanon.
 
Irving H. Leopold, ophthalmologist.
 
Meir Gruenburg; rabbi who helped shield 2,000 Jews from the Nazis.
 
John Chadonic, a New York commodities trader.
 
Sol Ganz, retired aerosol-paint manufacturer.
 
Sports 30-34
 
Baseball: Twins defeat Yanks. 31
 
Saberhagen erupts in clubhouse. 31
 
Boxing: Tyson loses his appeal. 34
 
Column: Rhoden on the Jets. 31
 
Football: Jets' Jones arrives and works out. 31
 
Bengals to furnish answers for Giants. 31
 
Harness Racing: Driver aims for fourth Hambletonian victory. 33
 
Horse Racing: Dispute loses on the grass. 33
 
Sports People 34
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 20-21
 
Editorials
 
Tepid justice in Los Angeles.
 
Stop the arms race in South Asia.
 
Gifts that grease Congress.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Kill and overkill.
 
Ruth W. Messinger: Out of hotels, into homes.
 
Mary Brosnahan and David Giffen: Out of hospitals, left on the streets.
 
Mark Zupan: Let the market deliver the mail.
 
Ralph Schoenstein: Prose that spans the ages.
 
Chronicle 22
 
Bridge 16
 
Crossword 14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (70%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (70%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); JURY TRIALS (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WHALING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); VETO (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TORNADOES (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); RIVERS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); EMPLOYMENT (61%); JURY DUTY (61%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (56%); FINES & PENALTIES (56%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



186 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: July Jobless Rate Dipped to 6.8% As Payrolls Increased by 162,000

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
The nation's unemployment rate edged down to 6.8 percent in July, the lowest rate in nearly two years, the Labor Department reported today. And the number of private-sector and government jobs swelled by 162,000, to 110.3 million.
The July gains suggest that the gradual improvement in the job market that took hold in the winter is continuing and that this recovery is indeed putting people back to work. 
 "You can't call this a jobless recovery anymore," said James Annable, the chief economist for the First National Bank of Chicago.
 
Little Change in Region
 In the New York region, unemployment fell a bit in New York State, dropping to 7.5 percent in July from 7.8 percent in June. In New Jersey, the unemployment rate held steady at 6.9 percent. [Page 49.]
"It's more drift than deterioration," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commissioner for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "But from the viewpoint of job recovery, New Jersey and New York have really yet to get on track."
Despite layoffs at brand-name corporations, military cutbacks and the flood in the Midwest, business and government have added 1.2 million new jobs so far this year, less than in some previous recoveries, but twice as many as were added during all of last year. The unemployment rate, stuck around 7 percent all year, is a percentage point lower than it was last summer.
"We're hiring," said D. Joseph Fleming, vice president of Compass Transportation Inc., of Youngstown, Ohio. The trucking company, which shuttles parts between auto and steel factories, is benefiting from rebounding production. "We're seeing business pick up everywhere, and we're actually trying to add 120 drivers between now and the end of the year," Mr. Fleming added.
But the job market continues to vary widely by region and industry, and many workers who are finding jobs are not necessarily satisfied with them.
In California, where the economy has been hit hard by cuts in military spending, the unemployment rate surged to 9.8 percent in July, from 9.1 percent in June, well above the national rate.
Nonetheless, consumers are starting to notice the slow improvement in the job climate, said Jordan Goodman, who oversees the Money magazine/ ABC News consumer comfort poll. "Consumers are feeling better about their own personal finances and about the national economy," he said. Spirits have been perking up bit by bit since early July, he added.
The evidence that the economy is indeed creating jobs comes as the Clinton Administration is trying to reassure average Americans that the economic recovery is sturdy enough to withstand the double whammy of tax increases and less growth in Government spending in its budget plan.
Administration officials were encouraged by the employment report. "We're on the right path," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said.
 
Fears for Small Business
 Republican opponents of the President's budget found little in the report to ease their anxieties. "I do think the economy is struggling back, trying to overcome bad public policy," said Representative Richard Armey, Republican of Texas. "But it's very anemic, and small business, which is the job-creating engine, is going to take the brunt of the tax increases."
Mr. Reich said that if the economy were to continue to create jobs at the July pace, President Clinton would meet his goal of eight million jobs by the end of 1996. At that rate, said Jack Bregger, assistant commisssioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, it would take a year or so to whittle the unemployment rate down by another percentage point.
But even if that happens, the improvements in the job market may not come fast enough to dispel the intense dissatisfaction that so many Americans feel with the economy, said Ted Van Dyk, a Democratic political analyst. "It's going to be trench warfare all the way economically -- inch-by-inch improvement."
Today's employment report gave several hints of why the modest recovery in the job market has felt so little like one. For starters, for many workers who have jobs, pay has not kept up with inflation. Hourly wages, which edged up two-tenths of a percent in July, have risen just 2.4 percent since last year.
 
More Temporary Workers
 Then, too, many business people -- unnerved by the prospect of new taxes or Government regulations and still uncertain about the economy's strength -- are reluctant to hire permanent workers. Temporary-help agencies added 27,000 jobs in July alone and have accounted for about one in five of the jobs that have been created this year. Finally, the legions of Americans who are working part time but wish they had full-time jobs is still large -- stuck at about 6.5 million for the last couple of years.
As the latest data show, companies in scores of industries are adding jobs. The Labor Department even turned up 31,000 more jobs for June and 23,000 more jobs for May than it had reported last month.
Builders took on 24,000 extra hands last month, thanks to better weather and lower interest rates that promoted construction. Some of the most solid construction markets are in the Southeast, where rebuilding from Hurricane Andrew, migration from other states and relatively strong manufacturing are bolstering economic growth.
As usual, it was the sprawling service sector that supplied the job numbers. From airlines to restaurants to warehousing, the business segment that employs most American workers grew by 153,000 jobs in July, after expanding by 600,000 in the previous three months. Employment in the retail sector, which rose 33,000 in July, is at a record high. Health care, which never did stop churning out new jobs during the recession, accounted for 21,000 hirings.
Government employment is stagnating, as it has been all year, rising a negligible 4,000 in total. The Federal Government has shrunk by 70,000 workers so far this year, but state and local governments have added nearly that many.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "The Labor Picture in July" shows unemploymeny and employment statistics for July. (pg. 49)(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); Graphs show civilian unemployment and employment from May 1992 to July 1993. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); STATISTICS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); TRUCKING (64%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



187 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: Norwegians Claim Their Whaling Rights

BYLINE: By JOHN DARNTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: REINE, Norway, Aug. 2

 BODY:
Norway has a reputation for being ecologically correct. Its melodramatic mountains and fjords are kept pristine. Hotels are apt to post notes requesting guests to reuse their towels to cut down on the use of detergents. Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland is so widely known as an environmentalist that she has been nicknamed "the Green Queen."
So it is an odd twist of fate that Norway is becoming a pariah among ecologists and a target for direct action campaigns by groups like Greenpeace. It is the first country to face the serious prospect of trade sanctions by the United States for undermining a conservation effort.
 
Insist on Their Right
 The reason is to be found in this tiny harbor village of 500 people in the Lofoten Islands, 60 miles north of the Arctic Circle. It is home to men who insist that they have a right to do what their fathers did -- to venture across the icy waters to hunt the minke whale. 
 "They say we have to protect the minke," said Bjorn Hugo Bendiksen, a 29-year-old whaler who began learning his trade on his father's boat when he was 15. "There's no reason to protect them. They're plentiful. Killing a minke is no different from killing a deer."
Sentiments like these horrify Greenpeace campaigners who have been chaining themselves to Norwegian tourist offices and fishing boats this summer as Norway became the first country to resume commercial whaling in defiance of a 1986 moratorium imposed by the International Whaling Commission. The commission was set up in 1949 to regulate whaling at a time when whales were rapidly disappearing.
So far this season, Norwegian fishing boats, most of them from Reine, have killed 153 minke whales, only 7 short of the commercial quota of 160 set by the Government.
Other whales remain strictly off limits, and in an effort to head off charges of profiteering, Norway has promised not to export whale meat to consumer countries like Japan.
But Norway's defiance has touched off an international boycott. A German supermarket chain has stopped buying Norwegian prawns and salmon. A British company has stopped importing Norwegian sleeping bags. And Greenpeace and other groups are promoting a move to keep travelers away from next year's Winter Olympics at Lillehammer.
 
Trade Restrictions Feared
 More worrisome from Norway's view is the possibility that the United States might impose restrictions on some of the $2 billion in imports from Norway under an amendment to the 1967 Fishermen's Protective Act. [On Aug. 5, Secretary of Commerce Ronald Brown certified that Norway's actions had "diminished the effectiveness of an international program for the conservation of endangered or threatened species," giving President Clinton 60 days to decide on sanctions.]
Given that the House of Representatives passed a resolution condemning Norway, 347 to 0, only six months ago, there is little doubt how the political wind is blowing. "This is more than a scientific question," an American diplomat said. "It's a political issue. When you get a vote of 347 to 0, you can count whales all day, but there's no way we could support their hunt."
Along Norway's northern coast, where whaling and fishing are part of a mystique of rugged self-reliance, the condemnation from abroad raises puzzled consternation. The outside world has mixed up David and Goliath, the people here say.
"People in the U.S. are totally misinformed," said Georg Blichfeldt, secretary of the High North Alliance, a pro-whaling group. "They think there's a big whaling industry, factory ships out there hunting down the last few whales. We're just a bunch of stupid little boats owned by families fighting for our rights. The only big organizations living off the whales today are Greenpeace and the Whale and Dolphin Society that use them as symbols for money raising."
For a whaler like Mr. Bendiksen, being on one of the 28 Norwegian whaling boats, alloted a quota of five or six whales each, has meant the difference between just scraping by and relative affluence. In the early 1980's, when whale quotas were higher, the minke catch doubled his total fishing income, bringing in an extra 100,000 krona, or $15,000. For the last six years, once the winter cod ran out in April, he dreaded the idle summer months.
Now, after his boat's haul of 33,000 pounds of whale meat selling at about $3.60 a pound, he is breathing easier. He has just purchased a modest house in the center of town for his wife, Nina, and their 7-month-old son, Sverre. On summer evenings when it never really gets dark here, he tosses whale meat onto the barbecue -- "the finest beef in the world," he proclaims -- and as he looks up at the mountains, he feels that all is right in the world.
Reine is a cluster of two-story pink, yellow, white and brown houses with white picket fences and is surrounded on three sides by sheer cliffs. Still pockmarked with snow, the cliffs disappear into enveloping clouds by mid-morning. On the outskirts of town are brightly painted cottages on stilts over the marshes for itinerant workers.
The village lives off fishing, and people here say the last six years have been tough.
"Before the ban there were 80 boats," Mr. Bendiksen said of the village's total fishing and whaling vessels. "Now, there are 40. In another 5 or 6 years, there'll be 6 or 7. We'll have to pack up and move away."
Norway contends that among the 80 or so species of whales, the minke, which is relatively small at about 30 feet and between 6 and 8 tons, is plentiful enough to sustain a controlled harvest. It cites figures accepted by the Whaling Commission's scientific committee that there are about 87,000 minke whales in the northeastern Atlantic. Although the Government insists that it could kill some 800 minkes a year without depleting the stock, it limited the quota this year to 160. An additional 136 minke whales are hunted by Norway for "research."
 
Census Called Unreliable
 Organizations like Greenpeace assert that Norway's whale census is unreliable and that the country's defiance could cause other whaling nations like Iceland and Japan to turn their backs on the moratorium. They say the whole system to protect threatened species could come tumbling down.
"Frankly, no one really knows how many whales are out there," said Andy Ottaway, Greenpeace's whale campaign coordinator. "The numbers are uncertain. There are so many unknowns. What's the effect of climate change? Of overfishing? No one can say for sure.
"Norway has killed more whales than any other nation on earth," Mr. Ottaway asserted. "It's time they were stopped. Whaling's a thing of the past. It belongs condemned to history, to a time when sadly we knew no better."
Norway insists that there must be a scientific basis to sound ecological management and that a quota system for an abundant species of whales makes sense.
In an interview, Prime Minister Brundtland said Norway had a long tradition of "sustainable development," or using resources without depleting them. She maintains that campaigns to save an unthreatened species of whale simply divert public attention from the real threats -- the pollution and high energy consumption of countries like the United States, Britain and Germany.
 
'We Feel Dictated To'
 "Of course we feel dictated to," she said. "It's a completely illogical, irrational, wrongly based campaign."
The Prime Minister, who is facing an election in September, stands to gain politically from allowing the whaling to resume. But she asserts that she has acted on principle.
On the other side, ecologists and others argue that the whales are not Norway's to deal with as Norway wishes, since the minke migrates thousands of miles to summer in the Arctic. They have long been outraged that Japan and Norway are allowed to kill even a limited number of whales for "research" -- to obtain information on the effects of pollution, feeding patterns and breeding -- and to sell the meat of the whales thus harvested on the open market.
As animal welfare groups gain in influence in the ecology movement, there is growing sentiment that the killing of whales is inhumane and morally wrong. Those campaigning for whales view them as unique and majestic mammals of humbling size. There are many stories about their intelligence and their bond of family.
To the whalers, the minke is just another animal. To appease those worried about inhumane deaths, the Government has sent an inspector on each whaling ship with a stopwatch to time the deaths from an exploding harpoon. The whalers say the average death is well under 4 minutes, but Greenpeace says it is closer to 10 minutes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norwegian fishing boats have killed 153 minke whales this season. (Nina Darnton for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Diagram of the minke whale. (Source: "A Field Guide to the Whales Porpoises and seals," by Katona, Rough and Richardson)(pg. 2)
 
Map of Norway showing location of Reine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORWAY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: GREENPEACE (ORGN) GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (84%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE (ORGN) GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (84%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORWAY; UNITED STATES; REINE (NORWAY) NORWAY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WHALES AND WHALING; BOYCOTTS WHALING (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MARINE VESSELS (88%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (87%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); MAMMALS (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); FISHES (75%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FISHING LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); WINTER SPORTS (67%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); OLYMPICS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); 

PERSON: DARNTON, JOHN BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



188 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: The House;
Whips Use Soft Touch To Succeed

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
The excruciatingly slim victory for President Clinton's budget package in the House of Representatives on Thursday was fabricated from equal parts of flattery, cajolery and promises of sweetmeats to come.
Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan was upset that no one was consulting him in drafting a crime bill, and he voted against the budget package out of pique. House Democratic whips swarmed over him like bees to honey, and eventually he switched his vote, falling into line after being told he would be a prime player. 
 Representative Matthew G. Martinez of California first voted no because he said he did not like the gas tax. The whips went into action, and got the President to personally call Mr. Martinez on the floor. He is mum about what Mr. Clinton promised him (though he says he got something), and became a switcher with a minute or two to spare.
 
Party Loyalist Switches Vote
 But the biggest stampede of the whips -- a spectacle one Congressman compared to the storming of passengers onto the last departing train out of Grand Central Terminal on a Friday night -- was set off by a vote against the plan by Representative Jamie L. Whitten of Mississippi, an 83-year-old Democratic loyalist. First, Mr. Whitten protested that he could not vote against the rest of his state's delegation. But then, after the whips spoke a few honeyed words to him, he dutifully changed his vote.
With those three votes in hand, the Democrats were still two votes short. And so fate knocked for Representatives Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky of Pennsylvania and Pat Williams of Montana, an unlikely pair of Democrats who had hoped this moment would not come.
As the voting went on, Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky stood by the leadership desk, rubbing her arms nervously and hoping against hope that she could vote no to keep her skeptical constituents happy. As in May, the leaders held her in reserve to vote for the President's five-year economic plan only if her vote was absolutely needed.
The first-term Congresswoman had come out against the plan, having won election last November in her Main Line district, a group of mythically prosperous Philadelphia suburbs where winning candidates usually wear striped ties, by only 1,373 votes. A former television newscaster in Washington, she was one of the surprises of 1992, and thousands of her constituents will now be paying higher taxes next year as she seeks re-election.
 
Cheers and Jeers
 At the last moment the whips gave her the word that she was needed, and she walked down the aisle. One Democrat after another hugged her, patted her on the back and touched her as if she were Joan of Arc. As she finally voted aye, her Democratic colleagues cheered as the Republicans jeered, "Goodbye Marjorie."
Her vote, and Mr. Williams's, decided the issue.
The search for votes was a spectacle of petty dealmaking, rough-and-tumble peer pressure and a clash of oversized egos, punctuated occasionally by selflessness, as one member after another reluctantly fell into line to provide the 218-to-216 victory.
The vote was so close that House leaders were not really sure they had the votes to win when the vote began. They had 213 sure ayes, with eight to 10 up in the air. Seven Democratic lawmakers said they would not cast nay votes if they were needed, although three voted no anyway.
"It was a role of the dice," said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat. "It was the closest, toughest vote I have seen in my 18 years as a legislator."
 
Making 'the Tough Choice'
 Perhaps the defining moment came at 5 P.M. when Congressman Williams finally got around to returning the President's call, who had phoned several times during the day. There are few more loyal Democrats than the Montana subcommittee chairman, but Mr. Williams was firmly opposed to a gas tax, which he said is unfair to his constituents who drive long distances.
"He said: 'Pat, I can't win this without you. My Presidency is at stake,' " Mr. Williams recalled. "His count was better than mine. I didn't think he would need me."
Mr. Williams wanted to help Mr. Clinton, but he said his overriding concern was that at a time when the public is skeptical about politics and the nation's political institutions, he wanted to demonstrate that "Congress can make the tough choice to keep the country moving."
After his talk with the President, Mr. Williams decided to wait to the last minute to vote, just in case his aye was needed.
 
It's Down to Four
 With the official time for the vote over and only a handful of votes left, it came down to Mr. Williams, Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky and Representatives Ray Thornton of Arkansas and David Minge of Minnesota.
Mr. Williams found Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky and Mr. Thornton, and shepherded them down to the well to vote. He first turned to Mr. Thornton, who as an Arkansan and old associate of the President, was thought to be a fairly safe vote.
But Mr. Thornton balked, saying he favored the original energy tax based on the heat content of fuels over the gas tax. Then the Montana Democrat turned to Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky, and they took the plunge together as Mr. Thornton and Mr. Minge edged back from the abyss.
House leaders expressed frustration with Mr. Thornton today, wondering how he could have abandoned a President from his own state. "My job is to represent the people of the Second Congressional District," Mr. Thornton said.
Mr. Minge, a conservative freshman, also voted no. No one, not even apparently Mr. Minge, knows how he would have voted if his vote was needed.
"I was not prepared to vote yes," he said shortly after the vote. "But if it had been 217 to 217 I don't know what I would have done. It was an impossible situation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRAINS (73%); FUEL TAX (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CONYERS, JOHN JR (REPR); MARTINEZ, MATTHEW G (REPR); WHITTEN, JAMIE (REPR); MARGOLIES-MEZVINSKY, MARJORIE (REPR); WILLIAMS, PAT (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN CONYERS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



189 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
Excerpts From the Senate's Debate on the President's 5-Year Economic Plan

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Senate debate on President Clinton's five-year economic plan, as recorded by The New York Times:
 
Bill Bradley
Democrat of New Jersey
Mr. President, last year voters in this country voted overwhelmingly for change. They were fed up with economic hardship and fear for the future. This demand for basic change swept Bill Clinton into the White House and brought this package before us today. Most of the provisions in this bill the President advocated in the campaign, and the people elected him. With this bill we begin dealing with one of the primary national problems: the staggering deficit and the astronomical debt. The President deserves credit for acknowledging deficit spending as a problem. 
 Last January, I hoped he would boldly move on the debt and put on each legislator's desk by spring the vote of that legislator's lifetime, a vote that challenged special interests and asked all Americans to give up a little now so that they could have more later, and dealt a death blow to the exploding debt that, like acid, eats away at our future prospects.
This package is not the vote of a lifetime, but it is an important first step -- the biggest in the last decade -- to reduce the increase in the deficit. Remember, that's all this package does, reduce the increase in the deficit. It's a sad but true comment on our predicament and on the disastrous economic stewardship of the last 12 years. If we do nothing, the debt will go from $4 trillion to $5.4 trillion in five years. With this package, it will go from $4 trillion to $4.9 trillion. It's sobering to think that just 12 years ago the debt was $900 billion. . . .
Because I believe we need more spending cuts and deeper deficit reduction, I know there's going to be a second step, but we will never reach the second step without taking the first today. The first step is $500 billion in real deficit reduction. That's what the vote is today. If you are for deficit reduction, you will vote for this bill. The time for making excuses and passing the buck is over.
If you vote against this package, you must either lay out a specific alternative plan to cut the deficit by $500 billion or be revealed as someone who doesn't care about the burden we're loading on our children's backs. Without specific alternatives with equivalent deficit reduction, opponents of this package are simply playing the old politicians' game, which is to deliver exclusively good news, never to level with constituents, and above all to appear to be all things to all people.
 
Sam Nunn
Democrat of Georgia
Madam President, I regret to say that Washington continues to play the old game we grew up playing, called "Let's Pretend," as children. Many but not all Republicans pretend that we can achieve fiscal soundness with no new taxes. Many but not all Democrats pretend that we can achieve fiscal soundness while doing nothing about runaway growth in entitlement programs.
Both parties pretend that we can get our fiscal house back in order with little or no sacrifice by the vast middle class even though we all know that most revenues come from the middle class and most expenditures of our Federal Government go to the middle class. We don't like to say that, but we're not doing a favor to the middle class if we do not tell the American people those facts.
Madam President, realists in both political parties recognize that we must cut the growth rate of entitlements and other expenditures, we must raise taxes in a fair way that takes into account our present weak economy. And that means the effective date is very important on those taxes. And we must also provide incentives for savings and for investment.
All of these steps are needed to restore fiscal responsibility and to promote long-term economic growth and good jobs -- not simply one of those steps but all of them. All of these steps must be taken together; a piecemeal approach will not deliver the results.
Madam President, the President of the United States cannot be expected to cure all of these problems without a lot of help from Congress, both Democrats and Republicans. If Republicans continue to sit on the sidelines, they shift the political pendulum to the left and help insure the very results they denounce. Until the President and the realists in Congress come together across party lines, the game of "Let's Pretend" will continue, the huge deficits will continue and our economic problems will continue. The losers will continue to be the American people, particularly the middle class, that Washington spends so much time talking about protecting.
 
Alfonse M. D'Amato
Republican of New York
Madam President, we've seen this before: smoke and mirrors. And here we are once again. Step right up, ladies and gentlemen, because Magical Bill and his band of liberal magicians have a bag of tricks for you. Here we are, we take them, $292 billion, and we just tuck them away, tuck them away, away -- and it's gone! Presto! $292 billion gone! Oh, yes, we have smoke and mirrors and we have things for you. Abracadabra, alakazam, presto!
Let me tell you what this budget is going to do; $32.5 billion, that's what it's going to take, out of my state. And that's going to be 650,000 jobs in the next five years. Abracadabra, alakazam, presto. Gone. Chefs, waiters, cooks, bartenders. And what about the construction industry? Electricians, carpenters, plumbers, alakazam, presto, gone. Smoke and mirrors. Gone. $32.5 billion from New York.
Let me tell you about senior citizens. Senior citizens in New York are going to pay $359 million more. That's going to come from 375,000 seniors who are retired. They are going to pay in terms of their increase on Social Security an average of $957 more. And by the way, 60 percent of that comes from families that have an income of between $40,000 and $75,000. They are not rich. They are not the super wealthy. They are working people.
Is there any reason why the American people are going to be fooled? No. Once again they see us playing our tricks.
 
Bob Kerrey
Democrat of Nebraska
Mr. President, I've taken too long, I'm afraid, to reach this decision. My head, I confess, aches with all the thinking. But my heart aches with the conclusion and that I will vote yes for a bill which challenges America too little because I do not trust what my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will do if I say no.
Individually, the Republicans in this body are fine and able people -- patriots, parents, God-fearing citizens who came here to serve their country as every other member of this body. Collectively, however, you have locked yourselves together into the idea of opposition. Opposition not to an idea, but to a man. A man who came to this town green and inexperienced in our ways and who wants America to do better, to be better and to continue to believe in the invincibility of ideas of courage and action.
Oh, you say this plan doesn't have enough cuts. You say it is too heavy on taxes. One by one you've approached, however, individuals and groups to tell them the price for this program is too high.
Oh, how I wish this evening that I could trust you.
But the truth, Mr. President, is in fact the price of this proposal is too low, it's too little to match the greatness needed from Americans now at this critical moment in this world's history.
This is not to say we are free from blame on this side of the aisle. When the challenge came from someone who didn't want to pay or didn't want to accept less from their Government we, unfortunately all too often, ran too. We ran when opposition arose to the B.T.U. tax. We ran when some seniors said they didn't want to pay any higher taxes. We ran, Mr. President, when the program getters, the salary seekers the pay-raise hunters the COLA receivers and other solicitors begged us to leave them alone.
So I vote yes, Mr. President, and we pass a bill that seems to follow a perverse interpretation of the Sermon on the Mount: the meek shall inherit the earth.
 
Bob Dole
Republican of Kansas
Like Senator Kerrey, I believe this is a bad plan. It raises taxes and it does little to effectively reduce Government spending and control the deficit, and that's why I'm voting against it. That's why 43 of my Republican colleagues are voting against it. That's why six of Senator Kerrey's Democratic colleagues are voting against it. And that's why the vast majority of the American people are opposed to it.
And when it comes to a matter of trust, I must say I was a bit startled to hear that my good friend, the Senator of Nebraska, say that, well, you just can't trust Republicans; if I could trust Republicans, I might vote no.
Well, let me echo the remarks of the Senator of New Mexico. I'm willing to put my record of making the tough votes to reduce the deficit up against anyone in this chamber and I can go back and recite 1985 and many of my colleagues are here on the other side who voted right down the line against our package, right down the line. One Democrat, happened to a Senator from Nebraska, Senator Zorinsky, voted with us. One Democrat voted with us.
So we know what the tough votes are all about. We didn't raise taxes, we cut spending, we did a lot of things that people said were tough. And I told President Clinton soon after his election that if he was really ready to tackle the budget and the deficit and to cut spending first, he would have a lot of help.
But President Clinton knows and Senator Kerrey knows and I know and the American people know that the plan does not tackle the deficit head on. It does not cut spending first, second or third. So I would say to my friend from Nebraska that I'm worried about trust, too.
I'm worried about those who gave us retroactive tax increase -- rate increases -- and who promised spending cuts for some time in the future. And I'm worried about the trust that has been broken with the American people.
Before he took office, President Clinton said he'd heard the American people. He heard their message to cut spending first. Well, if he heard it, it must have been ignored.
 
Carol Moseley-Braun
Democrat of Illinois
Madame President, I'm going to cut to kind of the conclusion of what I have to say.
I intend to vote for this legislation although, quite frankly, I, at some points during the last couple of weeks, had misgivings. But I am pleased, Madame President, that the President and the Senate leadership both see the bill before us now as just a beginning of the fight to balance the budget and to cut spending.
The President has said he's absolutely committed to taking further tough steps and I share that interest and that commitment. I think that is what the people of my state of Illinois want to see. Indeed, it's what they have to see.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



190 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: The Region;
Backlash to Tax Rise Splits New Jersey Democrats

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

 BODY:
While New York and Connecticut Democrats were firmly united behind President Clinton's tax and deficit reduction plan, there were major defections among New Jersey Democrats in Congress.
What engendered opposition to the President's plan in New Jersey, several Democratic leaders said, was a lingering political backlash to the state tax increase pushed by Gov. Jim Florio three years ago, and the residual fear that voters would punish anyone who supported another tax increase. 
 As expected, every Republican representative from the three states voted against Mr. Clinton's five-year economic plan on Thursday night. And Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York kept Republican opposition uniform with his vote against the plan last night.
The vote split along partisan lines in New York and Connecticut. Every one of the 18 Democratic representatives from New York, and all three Democratic representatives from Connecticut, supported the plan in the House vote Thursday night.
 
Senate Votes Compared
 In the vote last night Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee and was a major architect of the budget measure, voted for it. Also voting for it were Connecticut's two Democratic Senators, Christopher J. Dodd and Joseph I. Lieberman.
But the two Democratic Senators from New Jersey were divided. Bill Bradley voted for it, as he had indicated all along. But Frank R. Lautenberg, who is running for re-election next year, voted against it. Mr. Lautenberg was one of six Democrats to vote with the Republicans against the President's plan when it first squeaked through the Senate in June, and he announced on Tuesday that he would do so again.
While a state income tax pushed through by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut fostered anti-tax sentiment in that state, it did not prove as enduring as in New Jersey.
Gordon MacInnes, a former New Jersey State Senator and Morris County Democratic leader, noted the difference by citing the problems Senator Bradley had in his 1990 re-election campaign. "No Democrat in Connecticut ever saw a United States Senator as popular as Bill Bradley come within two percentage points of being defeated in the aftermath of the Florio tax fight," said Mr. MacInnes, who lost a bid for re-election to the State Senate in 1975 after he supported Gov. Brendan Byrne's income tax program.
 
Mindful of Earlier Defeat
 One of Mr. MacInnes's fellow Democrats, Herbert C. Klein, also voted for the tax, and was also defeated. But Mr. Klein made a political comeback last year, winning election to the House in a district that includes affluent Essex County communities and working-class neighborhoods in Passaic, where anti-tax sentiment is often fierce. Perhaps mindful of his earlier defeat, Mr. Klein voted against the budget on Thursday night.
Representative Robert E. Andrews, a Democrat who succeeded Mr. Florio in the First Congressional District, which includes Camden, said he voted against the President's plan because it did not include a major jobs program.
But Representative Robert G. Torricelli, a Democrat who was first elected to Bergen County's relatively wealthy Ninth District 11 years ago, voted for the Clinton plan, saying to do otherwise would be shortsighted. And yesterday he explained his decision.
"While a strong anti-tax backlash is still a part of the political reality in New Jersey, Jim Florio's re-election in November will go a long way to put it to rest," he said. "And when that happens, voters will say Bill Bradley and the rest of us were right for voting for deficit reduction, and Frank Lautenberg and the others were wrong."
If money is any measure, Senator Lautenberg was the first to suffer yesterday. Mr. MacInnes's wife, Blair, sent the Senator carbon copies of two $500 checks that she said would have gone to him had he stood behind the Clinton plan.
Instead, Mrs. MacInnes, a member of a wealthy Philadelphia family who, like others with high incomes, stands to lose the most under the tax plan, said she was sending the checks to two first-term Democratic Representatives who risked their political future by voting for it -- Karen Shepard of Utah and Majorie Margolies-Mezvinsky of Pennsylvania.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, right, jokingly showing his opposition to the stance taken by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey, against the budget plan before a television interview. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); INCOME TAX (63%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, RONALD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); ROBERT E ANDREWS (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); STENY HOYER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



191 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: After Flood, 2 Towns Diverge About the Next One

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KAMPSVILLE, Ill.

 BODY:
Black waters heaved up from the banks of the Illinois River during the flood, submerging half of this town's homes and most of its businesses.
Not far up the river is Liverpool, Ill., a town of 200 residents that also sits low on the banks of the Illinois, which made sense when steamboats pulled up to the town's docks in the 19th century and young couples from Chicago disembarked to be married in nearby Lewistown. 
 The 20th century, though, has brought dams and levees to the river, drastically raising the height of flood stages, and this summer half of the homes in Liverpool were inundated.
Although the two towns, separated by 80 miles of river, suffered the same fate in the floods of 1993, they are taking opposite approaches in searching for a way to reduce the damage that future floods may inflict.
Liverpool has chosen to entrust its future to a levee. Residents have been campaigning for state and Federal money to build one on the Illinois, a tributary of the Mississippi, since a flood in 1983. Next summer the Army Corps of Engineers is scheduled to begin construction of a 4,400-foot levee at a cost of $2.1 million, a project that Government engineers say will end Liverpool's flood problems.
In Kampsville, the corps said a levee was not feasible. So since 1986 the Government has been buying homes and businesses, most of which have been demolished, and people have moved out of the flood plain. So far, $1.1 million has been spent, but the buyout has caused lingering resentment over the low prices paid by the Government, and much of Kampsville remains in danger of flooding.
 
Questions Are Addressed
 As flood water drains from the 700,000-square-mile upper Mississippi River basin, officials at every level of government are beginning to examine the same questions about policies for controlling catastrophic flooding.
By no means are such questions new. In 1966, a commission named by President Lyndon B. Johnson called for the development of a more economically sensible approach to reducing threats from flooding. The debate has taken on new urgency this year, not only because of the $12 billion in flood damages, but also because of laws passed since 1966 that experts said gave the Clinton Administration more authority than any other Administration to refocus the nation's approach to the problem.
President Clinton indicated in July that he was ready to study the effect of Federal policy on the flooding. Kathleen A. McGinty, director of the White House Office on Environmental Policy, said in an interview that she would coordinate a study that would include the White House Office of Management and Budget and a dozen other Federal agencies.
The Administration wants to "make sure that the Federal response goes to insuring that the next time we have floods, the Government will make the situation better, not worse," she said.
Many conservationists and state wildlife officials contend that the way to reduce damages from catastrophic flooding is to restore the upper Mississippi's natural flood control capacity by encouraging people to move out of the flood plains, by relying more on flood plains, which let flood waters spread out, and less on levees and other barriers, and by restoring sponge-like wetlands.
 
Altered Landscapes
 The natural features of the landscape that once absorbed and helped to control flooding have been altered over the last century by industrial and agricultural development. Along the Missouri River, for instance, 90 percent of the region drained by the river in 1860 was forest and wetlands, which absorb vast amounts of rain.
More than a century later, 70 percent of the region is pasture and cropland, less than 10 percent of the land is forest or wetland, and the rest is residential or industrial. Consequently, conservationists and state environmental officials say, rain rushes off the land into a river system that is unable to handle so much water. It is no accident of nature, conservationists say, that Illinois, Iowa and Missouri -- the three states where flood damage has been the worst -- have lost from 85 percent to 90 percent of their wetlands, according to state and Federal studies.
"Instead of 19 million acres of wetlands that we had in the upper Mississippi and Missouri River basins, what we have are storm sewers and well-drained fields that carry water off the landscape," said Constance Hunt, a staff member of the World Wildlife Fund, an environmental group in Washington. "The thing we need to do is think a little bit before we rush out to rebuild the levees and protect farm fields. We need to think about slowing down the water and keeping it on the flood plain."
Such an approach would be almost a complete reversal of Federal policy as well as a reversal of the economic and cultural tradition of the last century. On the other hand, farmers, town leaders, business owners and many officials in the Army Corps of Engineers are calling for levees to be repaired and for new ones to be built to preserve the development that has grown up.
The sentiment in the Midwest was apparent in Congress in July as the flood waters were rising on the Mississippi and its tributaries. Congress rejected the Clinton Administration's proposal to spend $370 million in the next fiscal year to convert 500,000 acres of farmland, much of it in the flooded region, back to wetlands.
 
Development Praised
 "If you look back at history, it is the development of the valleys and the river banks that has allowed our country to grow," said Earl Bull, a farmer who lives near Liverpool. "I hear all this talk about how taxpayers can't afford disasters like the one we've had this summer. Well, all I ask -- if we're going to force farmers out and move people out of harm's way in the Midwest, are we going to do that as national policy? How about the San Andreas fault?"
Whatever the Administration chooses, the most obvious lessons to be drawn from the experiences of Liverpool and Kampsville are that any changes in flood control measures are difficult to achieve and extraordinarily expensive and take years to conclude.
In the early 1980's, the Federal Emergency Management Agency first proposed buying about 70 homes and businesses on Liverpool's flood plain and moving residents to higher ground, but town leaders rejected the proposal. "We didn't trust it would work," said Mickey Belles, 29, who has lived in Liverpool almost all her life.
So Mrs. Belles's husband, Floyd, led a campaign to build a levee, and construction is to begin next year. "People here say they won't believe it until they actually see it," Mrs. Belles said. "It's taken so long. But it's going to end all the problems we have here."
 
Misery Long After Floods
 In Kampsville, the misery will continue long after this summer's flooding subsides. Because of engineering and environmental restrictions on the Illinois River, the Army Corps of Engineers decided not to build a levee. The state and Federal Emergency Management Agency began buying homes and businesses in 1986, a move supported by most residents.
But the pace has been exceedingly slow, residents said. The state and Federal Governments have spent $1.16 million to buy 60 homes and businesses, most of which have been demolished. But nearly that many buildings are still in the flood plain and now filled with water.
The problem, residents said, is that the Government is not offering enough money for their property. But residents here said the state and Federal Government were costing themselves money by being too chintzy. Louis Hazelwood, who owns the Kampsville Inn, explains it this way: His restaurant near the ferry landing in town was flooded in 1983 and several times since, including once earlier this year. Mr. Hazelwood spends $1,500 a year on Federal flood insurance, a program that is partly financed by the Government. Every time his business fills with water, he receives a check from the Government for repairs.
In all, Mr. Hazelwood said he had collected more than $250,000 in flood insurance payments over the years, not counting the $100,000 to $130,000 check he said he would collect for the July flooding. Mr. Hazelwood said he had offered repeatedly to sell the business to the Government for $125,000, but his proposal had been rejected.
"Listen," he said, "I'll take all the flood money they want to give me. But what they could have done is give me a lump sum years ago, and that would have been it. This here is just a waste."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1986, the Army Corps of Engineers decided a levee in Kampsville, Ill., was not feasible. As a result, the Government has bought much property in the town on the Illinois River. But as the waters have risen, so have questions about the Federal policies for controlling catastrophic flooding. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 
Map of Illinois showing locations of Liverpool and Kampsville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KAMPSVILLE (ILL); LIVERPOOL (ILL); ILLINOIS RIVER UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER RIVERS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); FLOOD CONTROL (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); ARMIES (74%); FLOOD INSURANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); BUDGETS (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



192 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The Clinton budget plan passed its final legislative hurdle, passing the Senate by a 51-to-50 vote, with Vice President Al Gore casting the tie-breaking vote. The outcome was in doubt until Democratic Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska declared that he would support Mr. Clinton. [Page 1.]
The U.S. unemployment rate edged down to 6.8 percent in July, the lowest level in nearly two years, the Labor Department reported. And the number of jobs on business and government payrolls swelled by 162,000 to 110.3 million. The gains suggest that the gradual improvement in the job market that took hold in the winter is continuing and that this recovery is indeed putting people back to work. [1.] The jobless rates in New York and New Jersey remained virtually unchanged from June -- at 7.5 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively. [49.]
American consumers increased their borrowing by $7.67 billion in June, the largest one-month jump in six years. [46.]
 
 Companies
Eastman Kodak's chairman was ousted by the company's board. Kay R. Whitmore apparently was not moving fast enough to improve the company's financial performance. [37.] According to three independent directors, Mr. Whitmore had been given every chance to redeem himself with the board. [37.]
Northwest Airlines completed agreements with its lenders and employees, averting bankruptcy. [37.]
Volkswagen's supervisory board and management closed ranks in support of Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, the auto maker's production chief, who is accused of industrial espionage by his former employer, General Motors. [39.]
Ipalco Enterprises escalated its takeover battle for PSI Resources by raising its bid nearly $1.6 billion. [39.]
Turner Broadcasting is in talks to acquire New Line Cinema. Turner is also talking to Castle Rock Entertainment. [39.]
The Gap is testing a new line of lower-priced basic clothing in an attempt to attract more cost-conscious customers. [39.]
Delta Air Lines is offering frequent fliers a chance to trade in some miles for a one-hour session in a flight simulator. [39.]
 
 International
Western Germany's unemployment grew in July to 7.5 percent of the work force, the highest level for the month since the Government began keeping records in 1949. [37.]
 
 Markets
The stock market moved upward in late trading as investors braced for a Senate vote on the budget package. The Dow Jones industrial average added 11.46 points to close at 3,560.43. [38.]
Treasury prices showed little change as the bond market found no surprises in the July employment report. The 30-year Treasury bond slipped 2/32 of a point, while its yield rose to 6.53 percent. [46.]
The dollar fell against most major currencies as profit-taking ended a brief rally. [48.]
Silver prices were hammered again by heavy speculative selling, but the gold market posted only modest losses. [48.]
 
 Your Money
The loosening of Europe's currency controls this week has set the stage for rallies in select stock and bond markets there, according to financial experts. [35.]
The most important measurement in assessing mutual fund risk is an investor's own reaction when it falls. [35.]
Difficulty in obtaining corporate information is one drawback to "street" accounts.. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); IPALCO ENTERPRISES INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (78%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); SILVER MARKETS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TAKEOVERS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); CURRENCIES (66%); ESPIONAGE (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



193 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

 NEW YORK CITY
 
 ASBESTOS TESTS FOUND WANTING
New York City officials have determined that asbestos tests to certify the safety of every city public school are so unreliable as to be meaningless. The officials have described the Board of Education's asbestos testing as grossly mismanaged, incompetent and possibly fraudulent. Mayor Dinkins ordered an emergency inspection of each of the city's 1,069 schools. Page 1.
Public School 188 on the Lower East Side is one of the 83 city schools that will get the highest priority in checking for asbestos. Page 24.
Experts agree that asbestos is a threat only if its fibers escape into the air, where they can be inhaled. Page 24.
 
 BACTERIA STILL HAUNT WATER
Bacteria are still appearing in the tap water around New York City at a rate far higher than normal, the Environmental Commissioner said yesterday, adding that more "boiled water alerts" are still possible. But the likely source of the problem, an unusual water routing at the Hillview Reservoir in Yonkers, will be ending. Page 25.
 
 MOVING OF BOMB TRIAL IS WEIGHED
The Federal judge presiding over the World Trade Center bombing case has said he has considered moving the trial to Cincinnati to escape the extensive pre-trial publicity but is leaning toward keeping it in New York City. Page 25.
 
 REGION
 
 STATE LINES SPLIT DEMOCRATS
While New York and Connecticut Democrats were firmly united behind President Clinton's tax and deficit-reduction plan, there were major defections among New Jersey Democrats in Congress. Page 8.
 
 PANEL ON LEGISLATURE NAMED
The Nassau County Executive has nominated the 17 members of a charter commission to create the rules for a new county legislature, following a Federal judge's ruling in April that Nassau's current form of government is unconstitutional. Page 26.
 
 A BANNER WAR AGAINST GOVERNMENT
The plain-talking owner of the Oak Beach Inn on Long Island is taking government to task with signs and banners raging against the ineptitude and corruption that he sees in places both high and low. Page 26.
 
 LEARNING SPORTS AT CAMP
The Cosmos day camp at Ramapo College in Mahwah, N.J., is one of many specialized sports programs in the New York region that coach children on improving their skills. Page 26.
 
 GOOD NEWS ON HAZARDOUS WASTE
For the second time this week, test results have indicated that the hazardous-waste problems of Stratford, Conn., may not be as serious as initially feared. Page 26.
 
 UNEMPLOYMENT RATE BARELY BUDGES
In a sign that the New York region has not yet entered a period of sustained economic recovery, the unemployment rate in New Jersey and New York remained virtually unchanged from June to July, the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. Page 49.
Traffic Alert 24
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); COUNTIES (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); JUDGES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); STATISTICS (68%); SPORTS (68%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



194 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: A Man Fights Red Tape With His Own Banners

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OAK BEACH, L.I., Aug. 5

 BODY:
It began with a truck, a van and a hearse, rolling down the Long Island Expressway, bearing prophesies of doom for the slaves of 9 to 5: "Move Out of New York State, Before It's Too Late."
Soon after, red banners with the same exhortation appeared on overpasses in Long Island and Queens: the Van Wyck, Long Island and Clearview expressways, the Northern and Southern State and Grand Central parkways. They would go up at night, salvos in a game of dialectical guerrilla warfare, and make it through morning rush hour before being torn down by the authorities. 
 For the last few weekends, beachgoers from Coney Island to West Hampton have peered up at slow-flying planes trailing the dire plea across the Atlantic Coast, while radio stations have played commercials on the same theme. And this weekend, weather permitting, New Yorkers will see the message scripted across the heavens above Yankee Stadium or Central Park.
Is it a bird? Is it a plane? Is it a fed-up businessman who estimates he has spent more than $1 million in legal battles with state and local governments?
 
'Go for Their Throats'
 "It got to the point where I said, 'I'm not going to waste my time in court anymore. I'm going to put you guys out of jobs. I'm going straight to the people.' " said Robert Matherson, the plain-talking owner of the Oak Beach Inn, who is spending more than $25,000 a week to urge on the exodus. "I can do what my lawyers can't do: I can go for their throats."
A waterfront nightclub offering escapist diversions like Jet Skis, bungee jumping and drinking till 4 A.M. under a multicolored helium balloon might seem an unlikely caldron for popular revolt, but Mr. Matherson maintains that his gripe is really about the difficulty of running a successful business -- any business -- on Long Island; a raging in six-foot letters against the ineptitude and corruption that he sees in places high and low.
"It's a government not for the people; it's for the politicians," he said. "It's worse than organized crime, because the politicians steal legally."
Mr. Matherson's history along Oak Beach, a sandy strip on the road to Robert Moses State Park, betrays a 26-year seasonal tussle with neighbors and local officials over noise, overcrowding and parking. The fights began with Robert Moses, who lived near the Oak Beach Inn and moved to limit parking in the lot. Since then, the inn has built additions north, south, east and west, swelling the nightclub's capacity to 1,500 from 185.
 
No Parking From Town
 In 1981, the Babylon Town government, which leases the land on which the inn and the private homes of Oak Beach sit, agreed to sell Mr. Matherson the land and to provide parking for several hundred cars, he said. The town has yet to provide the spaces, and so overflow parking has ended up on Oak Beach's two-lane street, fueling the ire of most of Mr. Matherson's neighbors.
"His place overwhelms the community," said Larry Dougherty, president of the Oak Beach Civic Association, who confesses more than a bit of impatience with the Move Out of New York State campaign. "He's a self-made millionaire who's made his money on Long Island, in Suffolk County and most of it at the Oak Beach Inn. Where's his gratitude?"
Mr. Dougherty contends that the club owner's campaign is more gimmick than cry of woe, and says he prays for Mr. Matherson to pack up his bungee crane and hit the road. "He would never leave New York State -- we would never be that lucky," Mr. Dougherty said.
In fact, Mr. Matherson's radio ads end with a plug for his bar.
Mr. Matherson says he does plan to leave, perhaps for Florida, in the fall, but even his closest friends doubt he will.
"He says he's going to, but I can't imagine the Oak Beach Inn without Bob Matherson," said Rosanne M. Rousseau, who is writing a book about Mr. Matherson and has become a close friend. "It would be like selling a major body part."
The New York State Liquor Authority, which seized 127 bottles of liquor in a raid at the Oak Beach Inn last year, became another target of Mr. Matherson's wrath. Barbara Lord, a spokeswoman, said the authority was moving to revoke Mr. Matherson's liquor license for failure to cooperate with an investigation, inciting a riot and selling beer from unmarked taps.
"We treat everybody the same," she said. "A number of people feel they are being picked on. I don't want to say they're paranoid, because that wouldn't be nice to say."
Mr. Matherson, who bought the original Oak Beach Inn in 1967 at the age of 25, now says he sees corruption everywhere. Recently, he took a sample of the concrete from an abutment under the Great South Bay Bridge, which is being rebuilt. He sent it to a lab, which rated the concrete "fair to poor" quality.
"Some inspectors weren't doing their jobs," he said. "A bridge from the 1950's shouldn't need to be rebuilt already."
Though his fights are peculiar to his business ventures, Mr. Matherson's campaign has turned him into a magnet for popular discontent. A Bay Shore woman, who said she could not afford to leave New York because real-estate prices had plummeted, blamed immigrants for her husband's unemployment, and wrote Mr. Matherson: "I thank God for a person like you. The little people like us will never be heard because we can't afford it."
Others are less supportive. "Listening to your radio advertisements aggravates my stomach," wrote an East Hampton woman. "It is sad to see that a bar I have enjoyed for 10 years has been run by such a totally ignorant, over the hill jerk."
But Mr. Matherson, whose hearse will be featured rolling through Bay Shore in what he calls "gloom and doom" television spots next week, remains undeterred.
"She reinforces my commitment," he said, glancing at the letter from East Hampton. "I need to know I'm being effective. It encourages me to go further."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Long Island businessman who said he grew tired of battling state and local governments in the courts has moved the battle to any arena where a sign can be hung or a message can be broadcast. One of Robert Matherson's messages, "Move Out of New York State Before It's Too Late," hangs on a derelict ferry that is slowly settling into the Oak Beach waterfront near his restaurant on Long Island; "It's a government not for the people; it's for the politicians," said Robert Matherson. "It's worse than organized crime, because the politicians steal legally." (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OAK BEACH INN (OAK BEACH, NY, NIGHTCLUB) GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OAK BEACH INN (OAK BEACH, NY, NIGHTCLUB)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ADVERTISING REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); TRENDS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); STATE PARKS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (68%); CORRUPTION (60%); CITIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; MATHERSON, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



195 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: 11.46 Advance in Dow; Other Big Indexes Gain

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
The stock market moved upward late in yesterday's trading, as investors braced for the Senate's vote last night on President Clinton's budget package. Stocks have been generally indecisive all week as Congress headed for a showdown over the President's economic plan.
Although gainers topped decliners on the New York Stock Exchange by only a slight margin, the three key market barometers were all higher. The Dow Jones industrial average added 11.46 points to close at 3,560.43; the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks advanced 0.55 point, to 448.68, and the Nasdaq composite index extended its record run for the third consecutive day, rising 2.58 points, to 718.08. 
 Volume on the Big Board was moderate, with 221.2 million shares changing hands.
 
'Extraordinarily Rational'
 "The market has effectively been put on hold until the outcome of the Clinton economic plan," said Hugh A. Johnson, senior vice president of the First Albany Corporation. Late last night, the Senate gave its final approval to the budget by a 51-to-50 margin.
Mr. Johnson noted that the market was encouraged by "moderately good news on the employment front."
The Labor Department announced that the United States unemployment rate dropped to 6.8 percent in July from 7 percent the previous month, marking the lowest level since 1991. About 162,000 nonfarm jobs were created, even though there were 13,000 fewer jobs in the manufacturing sector.
"It was an extraordinarily rational day," Mr. Johnson said. "The stocks of companies that are sensitive to swings in the economy did well."
The story of the day on Wall Street was Eastman Kodak, which announced that Kay R. Whitmore would be replaced as chief executive after an outside successor is appointed. Anticipating that a change in leadership would speed the company's turnaround, traders bid up the stock 3 1/4, to 58 5/8, a 52-week high. Volume was very heavy, pushing Kodak into the most active spot on the Big Board.
Two other big blue-chip stocks, Sears, Roebuck and International Paper, were also market standouts yesterday. Sears, which rose 3/8 on Thursday when it reported a 15.4 percent increase in July same-store sales, yesterday tacked on 1 7/8, to 55. International Paper, another leader in the Dow, gained 2, to 66, because of improved investor sentiment on cyclical stocks.
Some semiconductor stocks, which have been gaining momentum recently, continued to post solid gains. Intel was up 1 1/2, to 57 1/4; Texas Instruments 1 3/4, to 76, and Advanced Micro 1 1/4, to 28 1/4.
Many international oil issues also performed strongly yesterday. Among them, Mobil increased 1 1/2, to 72 5/8; Exxon 3/4, to 63 3/4, and Texaco 1/4, to 62.
 
Big Three Decline
 In contrast, automotive stocks fell after Ford Motor's announcement of a recall of around 15,000 Escorts because of emission problems. Ford dropped 1, to 51 5/8; General Motors fell 7/8, to 47 3/4, and Chrysler lost 1, to 41 7/8.
Shares of 3Com advanced 1 3/8, to 22 1/2, rebounding from a decline of 1 5/8 on Thursday. That was when an analyst reduced earnings estimates for the company and cut its investment rating to hold from buy.
New Line Cinema, which confirmed that it was involved in talks regarding a combination with Turner Broadcasting, eased 1/4, to 16 1/4. On Thursday, New Line surged 1 7/8 on heavy trading.
Southern National signed a definitive agreement yesterday to acquire the First Savings Bank of Greenville, the largest financial institution with headquarters in South Carolina. Southern National closed down 1, to 20 3/4, and First Savings slipped 1/8, to 15 7/8.
In Tokyo, stocks slipped three-tenths of a percent yesterday. The Nikkei index of 225 issues closed at 20,357.94, down 67.70 points.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (69%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%); INTEL CORP (52%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (52%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BONDS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (76%); ELECTRONICS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); SAME STORE SALES (65%); RETAIL SALES (65%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



196 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Prices Are Little Changed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Treasury prices showed little change yesterday as the bond market found no surprises in the July employment report.
The 30-year Treasury bond slipped 2/32 point in late trading, while its yield rose to 6.53 percent, from 6.52 percent on Thursday. Prices on shorter-term issues were mixed. 
 As trading wound down, the market appeared to be anticipating the final passage of President Clinton's budget bill by the Senate and had already factored it into prices.
"Market participants feel fairly confident at the moment that the budget legislation will pass tonight," Carol A. Stone, a senior economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York, said before the vote on the budget.
 
Fulfilled Expectation
 Late last night, the Senate fulfilled the bond market's expectations and gave its final approval to the budget by a 51-to-50 margin.
The Clinton budget package is seen as positive for bonds for two reasons, analysts said: The higher taxes it includes could tend to slow the economy, making it less likely that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates, and the deficit reduction it seeks could mean less Government borrowing, making existing bonds more valuable.
Still, Maureen Maitland, an economist at UBS Securities Inc., said the bond market was more interested yesterday in the Government's employment report than in the outcome of the budget showdown.
The Labor Department reported the nation's unemployment rate fell to 6.8 percent in July from 7 percent in June and said business payrolls increased by 162,000. While an improvement, the results were close to the market's expectations. Ms. Stone said traders had expected an addition of about 150,000 jobs.
Going into next week, the market will be looking forward to Thursday's report on producer prices and Friday's on consumer prices. The bond market watches inflation closely, as inflation erodes the value of fixed-income investments and any surge could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates.
In trading yesterday, short-term Treasury issues rose 1/32 to 2/32 point, while intermediate-term notes ranged from down 1/32 point to up 3/32 point. The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, reflecting price movements on bonds with maturities of a year or longer, was unchanged from Thursday at 1,308.22.
 
Discount Rates on Bills
 The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills slipped two basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 3.02 percent, while six-month bills were unchanged at 3.18 percent. The discount rate on one-year bills fell five basis points, to 3.35 percent.
The Federal funds rate, the interest rate on overnight loans between banks, fell to 2.94 percent, from 3.05 percent on Thursday.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 1022/32 , unchanged from Thursday. The average yield to maturity was 5.73 percent, also unchanged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (94%); BUDGETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); TAX LAW (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (72%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



197 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar's Rally on Job Figures Gives Way to Profit Taking

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most major currencies yesterday as profit taking ended a brief rally caused by surprisingly strong United States jobs data.
The dollar surged after the Labor Department reported that July unemployment fell to 6.8 percent, the lowest rate since September 1991. Nonfarm jobs grew by 162,000, below forecasts. But dealers focused on the revised gain of 44,000 jobs for June, up from the 13,000 previously reported. 
 "People were evidently long dollars before the number came out" and the brief jump in the dollar gave them an excuse to take profits, said Jim Phoenix, a dealer at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in New York.
The selloff grew as dealers decided the data merely confirmed a slow economic recovery in the United States.
"The story of a muted expansion remains intact," said Richard Benzie, a currency economist at UBS in London. "There's no sign yet we're going to get an acceleration in the pace of growth which would cause the Federal Reserve to tighten" credit, he said.
 
Back to Fundamentals
 Moreover, the United States economic data have replaced European monetary tensions as a focus of the market, the dealers said.
"Since the upheaval in the European Monetary System subsided, the market has tended to look at fundamentals again," said one dealer at a German bank in New York.
The talk that the European central banks were buying marks also depressed the dollar, sterling and gold.
"We suspect a lot of them are buying marks, selling dollars to replenish reserves," said Robert Ryan, the manager of corporate foreign exchange at the Bank of New York, who noted heavy spending by central banks recently to support weak European currencies.
The dollar fell to 1.6966 marks in late New York trading, from 1.7123 marks on Thursday.
 
A Rise Against the Yen
 The dollar rebounded yesterday in quiet dealings from a postwar low of 103.90 yen at midday Thursday with the help of Bank of Japan purchases. In New York the dollar fetched 104.35 yen, up from 104.05 yen late Thursday.
The British pound rose to $1.4965, from $1.4948 on Thursday.
Other late New York dollar rates, compared with quotes on Thursday, included: 1.5015 Swiss francs, down from 1.5071; 5.9215 French francs, down from 5.9450; 1,601 Italian lire, down from 1,602, and $1.2914 (Canadian), down from $1.2926 (Canadian).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); CM (TSX) (84%); CM (NYSE) (84%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (84%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (54%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CURRENCIES (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



198 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Scant Change in Region's Unemployment

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
In a sign that the New York region has not yet entered a period of sustained economic recovery, the unemployment rates for New York State and New Jersey remained virtually unchanged -- at 7.5 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively -- from June to July, the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics reported yesterday.
The figures continued a three-month trend for both states of almost no variation in the number of unemployed, said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commissioner of the statistics bureau, indicating that the "shading in the economy is still primarily gray." 
 "It looks like we're still in a bottoming-out process instead of a clear recovery path," Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
 
Above National Average
 Although the figures show marked improvement from a year earlier -- when jobless rates in both states soared to their highest levels in a decade -- the rates for New Jersey and New York, two states hard hit by the recession, are still slightly higher than the national average of 6.8 percent for July. In July 1992, New York's unemployment rate was 9.3 percent; New Jersey's was 9.6 percent.
New York State's rate of 7.5 percent last month compared with 7.8 percent in June, according to the report. This means that nearly 640,000 New Yorkers who were seeking jobs could not find them. In New Jersey, the 6.9 percent rate was the same as in June, meaning that about 271,000 people were without jobs.
Joblessness in New York City was 9.5 percent last month, up from 9.4 in June, although figures for the city, unlike those for states, are not adjusted to account for seasonal surges in the number of job seekers. The city's rate was 12.1 percent in July 1992.
The rate for Connecticut, whose July figures have not been released, was 6.7 percent in June, down from 7.4 percent in May, Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
Among the 11 large states for which the Federal Government releases employment statistics each month, New York and New Jersey compared favorably in July. Only North Carolina, with a rate of 4.5 percent, and Massachusetts, at 6.3 percent, had lower numbers than New Jersey, which tied Ohio at 6.9 percent. California, with 9.8 percent unemployment, had the highest jobless rate among the big states.
In New York State, an increase in hiring in the service industry of about 42,000 people since last year was offset by the loss of nearly 50,000 manufacturing jobs since last year, Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
Mr. Ehrenhalt added that although New Jersey's rate had shown a remarkable recovery from a high of 9.1 percent in April, other economic indicators, like the number of people employed and the number of those seeking jobs, point to continuing weakness in the state's economy.
One bright spot in both states in July was the number of summer jobs for young people. Mr. Ehrenhalt said that more than 80 percent of the young people seeking short-term summer jobs were able to find work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (86%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



199 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Jump in Consumer Credit in 6 Years

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
American consumers increased their borrowing by $7.67 billion in June, the largest one-month jump in six years, the Federal Reserve reported today.
However, economists cautioned against reading too much into the one-month gain, saying that the central bank had been experiencing problems with its credit survey over the last two months. 
 Analysts noted that consumer credit, after having risen for nine consecutive months, actually fell by $752 million in May. But the Fed attributed that decline to the fact that about $3 billion in loans had been transferred from financial institutions not covered by the survey.
Michael Evans, head of a Washington forecasting firm, said that because of this statistical aberration, it would probably be better to average May and June. If that was done, he said, credit would have risen at a more realistic level of $3.5 billion, about in line with recent gains in personal income.
 
'Still Showing Restraint'
 "Consumers are still showing restraint by limiting their borrowing increases to the growth in their incomes," Mr. Evans said. He said consumers were worried about their jobs and taxes.
During the recession, consumers reduced their borrowing and sought to pay off old debts, but over the last year they have been less hesitant about taking on new debt.
The Fed survey showed that overall consumer installment loans were rising at an annual rate of 12.3 percent in June.
The revolving credit category, which includes credit cards, rose by $2.86 billion. That was the biggest increase since March 1991 and it translated into an annual rate of increase of 13.1 percent.
Auto loans increased by $2.2 billion, the biggest advance since February and an increase that translates into an annual rate of 10 percent.
Other kinds of consumer loans rose by $2.61 billion, or an annual rate of 13.9 percent.
The overall borrowing gain of $7.67 billion was the largest increase since a $7.9 billion advance in credit in July 1987.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



200 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Sales Drop

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
Sales at the wholesale level took their biggest drop in two and a half years in June, in another indication that the American economy is continuing to struggle, the Commerce Department said today. The department said sales fell 1.5 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $159.8 billion, after rising 1.8 percent in May. It was the biggest drop since sales fell 2.2 percent in January 1991. Inventories continued the pattern of the last three months, rising three-tenths of a percent in June after a rise of two-tenths of a percent in May. Weak sectors were motor vehicles and other auto equipment, lumber and other construction materials, petroluem products and drugs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES SALES FIGURES (91%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993

 
