

201 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Heartland Justice

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
DES MOINES
WE tend to think of people who play pivotal roles in the advancement of social justice -- and who pay steep prices for it -- as passionate advocates with intense connections to their cause. We imagine them as crusaders.
Marsha Ternus wasn't. She just tried to be fair.
The first woman ever to preside over the Iowa Supreme Court, she was asked three years ago to rule on a challenge to an Iowa statute banning same-sex marriage. She looked at the case and at the law and deemed the ban a violation of equal-protection language in the state's Constitution, which said that no privileges should be reserved for a limited class of citizens. Her six fellow justices agreed. Their unanimous decision is why Iowa is among the minority of states in which two men or two women can marry.
It's also why Ternus lost her job. The following year, she and two other justices came up for what are usually pro forma retention votes, and Iowans booted them from the bench. National groups on the religious right had mounted a furious campaign against them, calling them members of ''an arrogant elite'' with a ''radical political and social agenda.'' 
''We laughed about that,'' Ternus told me, referring to the accusation, not its career-ending consequence. ''I mean, honestly, I can remember the first time somebody used the words 'gay marriage.' And I said, 'What is that?' ''
Which happened... when?
''Sadly, not that long ago,'' she said, looking embarrassed.
It was news to Ternus when I mentioned that on Tuesday, North Carolinians would be voting on a constitutional same-sex marriage ban, which will probably pass. She doesn't track the issue, though it continues to dominate the news, as it did last week when an openly gay aide supportive of marriage equality quit Mitt Romney's presidential campaign. And she has rarely given interviews about the ouster of her and her colleagues David Baker and Michael Streit, who have been similarly reticent. None of them, she said, wanted their hurt feelings in the foreground.
''The important thing that happened wasn't us losing our jobs,'' she said over dinner here on Thursday. ''It's what it represents about what people think of justice and the rule of law and constitutional rights.''
Ternus, who is 60, agreed to meet with me because on Monday, she, Baker and Streit are receiving Profile in Courage awards from the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation in Boston. The timing, she said, felt right.
But she worried that she was talking too much about herself and too far beyond her authority.
''I'm just a judge from Iowa,'' she said, speaking of the past in the present tense. ''What do I know?'' She had just been to the hairdresser's -- her flight to Boston was in the morning -- and was allowing herself a Key lime martini.
Until she encountered so much religious opposition to the court's decision, some of it from Catholics, she was a loyal member of her local Catholic parish. Two of her three children graduated from Catholic high schools. One went to Notre Dame University.
Ternus's parents and grandparents and great-grandparents were all farmers, and she's the oldest of six children reared among fields of corn and soybeans, with a wood-burning stove in the kitchen.
''Don't make me sound like 'Little House on the Prairie,' '' she pleaded. She said her childhood wasn't nearly as austere as that.
At the University of Iowa, she majored in home economics. Law school entered her thoughts only when a job after college as a bank teller bored her to tears.
I asked about gay people in her life. She mentioned a man who lived in a nearby apartment at college and an architect she has worked with. ''But was my best friend gay or anything like that?'' she said. ''No.'' Nor are any relatives, as far as she knows.
She said that after the ruling, ''when I saw and heard the reaction of people whom it actually impacted, I just couldn't -- I mean -- it was amazing to me. I just had never been conscious of how meaningful it was to gay and lesbian couples.''
Ternus spent her early legal career as a litigator specializing in insurance law. She was appointed to the Supreme Court, her first judgeship, in 1993, by a Republican governor. In Iowa, voters weigh in at later intervals, usually every eight years, but many don't bother to. Their rejection of Ternus, Baker and Streit was the first such dismissal of Supreme Court justices in the history of the state's current system.
SHE said that she and the other justices knew there was risk in taking on the same-sex marriage case and began researching it months before hearing arguments. They agonized over the wording of the decision.
As for the decision itself, they learned in the first hours of discussion that none of them saw any way to square the marriage ban with equal-protection language. ''Everyone's jaws dropped -- that we had a unanimous decision,'' she recalled.
Theodore B. Olson, one of the lawyers who has argued the high-profile case against California's same-sex marriage prohibition, praised the Iowa justices' ruling for its painstaking thoroughness.
''What the Iowa Supreme Court did -- and they did a terrific job of this -- was to go through the objections systematically,'' he told me.
That same-sex marriage offended tradition? Well, many musty traditions proved indefensible over time. That marriage was for procreation? Childless couples abounded. That it undermined religious tenets? The court was dealing with civil marriage, not church weddings. That it devalued male-female unions, as conservative religious groups claim?
Ternus told me: ''If these organizations are really worried about marriage, rather than being motivated by bigotry and hatred, then they would be going after the divorce laws. But they're not.''
What most concerns her, though, is what she sees as the politicization of the judiciary, with elected officials and partisan groups firing warning shots at judges and screening them for preordained allegiances. The judiciary, she said, can check and balance legislatures -- and mete out true justice -- only by being less casually reactive to public opinion.
A registered independent, she said that she and her fellow justices divorced politics from their thinking.
Referring to her subsequent punishment at the polls, she said, ''If people think that what happened here doesn't influence other judges, they're really naive.''
She now gives speeches (usually for no charge) on that topic. Even so she has time for once neglected chores.
''The first week I was off, I took everything out of the kitchen cupboards and I washed them all down,'' she said. ''And then I cleaned every closet in the house. And I'm telling you, the pleasure that gave me was indescribable.''

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); WOMEN (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); EQUAL PROTECTION (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DISMISSALS (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); RELIGION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: IOWA SUPREME COURT (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



202 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Exit Ramps Lead Right Back Here

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Nine years ago, when I was introduced to my future husband by a mutual friend, he was working in Nashville, and living 885 miles away, in a town house apartment in Brooklyn. To afford this unusual arrangement, he spent the three or four nights a week that he was in Tennessee at a Motel 6 -- not the Motel 6 closest to his place of employment, but a cheaper branch farther away from the interstate where the sheets, forgetting discussions of thread count, possessed the feel of something made at Union Carbide.
During our first date, it did not occur to me to ask him why he chose to live in New York, where he had no familial ties, at such enormous logistical cost. Living here was the goal of all thinking people, and doing so invited complication in nearly every respect; sacrifices were to be made. 
To live in New York is, of course, to remain a curiosity to many of the people who don't. Were you to explain to an aunt in St. Louis what it is like to arrive home from grocery shopping to a third-floor walk-up with a stroller and a 15-month-old in January, she would first feel profoundly sorry for you and then send listings for the grand real estate you could easily acquire around the Mississippi River for the price of your 1,050 square feet here.
New York attracts and incubates those who aspire to power, but it is the power the city exerts over the millions of others it draws and keeps here -- those with no desire to become Al Sharpton or Jamie Dimon -- that has always been more difficult to explain.
The standard rationalizations, or those we imagine to be, so rarely ring true: ''I live in a scorching studio in a 112-year-old building with uneven floorboards because I like museums.'' How many of us have the time regularly to go to museums? And how many of us, even when we have the time, spend it, instead, making inroads into the third season of ''Damages''?
This is not simply rhetorical flourish: according to data from the Center for an Urban Future, at the Museum of Modern Art, 60 percent of visitors are foreigners. Even fewer of us are going to Broadway. During the 2010-11 season, the Broadway League, a trade association, said, New Yorkers made up only 17 percent of the audience.
Technology has made it possible to work from many places. A creative career is arguably much easier to pursue in a city where the cost of living is drastically cheaper. (Rents are up 9 percent in Manhattan over the first quarter of last year, to a new median of $3,064 a month, Prudential Douglas Elliman, the real estate firm, says.) The fields that defined New York in the mid-20th century -- manufacturing, advertising, publishing -- have disappeared, been stripped of their romance or contracted.
Inevitably, the matter of restaurants comes up. But the culinary revolution of the past two decades has made it possible to eat spectacularly well elsewhere -- in Minneapolis or Birmingham, Ala., where I've done so repeatedly and always in brilliant company. There are 466 Dunkin' Donuts in New York City, which exceeds the number in Dallas by 463. If you cared deeply about farmers' markets, you'd be moving to Orange County, Calif.
So what is it that lures us here and keeps us beholden? Recently, the opportunity arguments have been harder to sustain. In March of last year, the unemployment rate in the city stood at 8.6 percent; 12 months later it jumped to 9.8 percent. Nationally, the unemployment rate has declined during the past year, to 8.1 percent in April.
But the past few years, defined by economic challenges, have seemed only to burnish the city's appeal. An analysis of American Community Survey data by Susan Weber-Stoger of the Queens College Department of Sociology reveals that more people moved to New York City (over 223,000 of them a year on average) after the financial crisis in 2008 and through 2010 than did from 2005 to 2007, an increase of 10 percent.
Simultaneously, the number of people who have left the city since the recession decreased by 25 percent. Of those who have come, most have been from 25 to 34 years old, more than two-thirds of them with college or graduate degrees. More than a third of those who've arrived have come from abroad.
When I discussed some of these numbers with Miriam Greenberg, a sociologist who has written extensively about the branding of New York, she cited the highly strategized efforts the current mayoral administration has made to sell the city to the world. This may explain, in some sense, why people have come, but it doesn't tell us why they remain, with their Zipcar memberships and disillusions.
I rarely meet anyone who has lived here a long time who claims that New York is the greatest city in the world or that he or she can't imagine living anywhere else. Quite often people can easily imagine living somewhere else -- but they don't actually have the desire to realize the vision of going somewhere else.
What would you do with all that space in St. Louis or Bucks County or Vermont? You'd have to fill it with things and maintain it (the virtue of less space is less domestic obligation). You would have to make new friends and risk that they would be less interesting. Something of you would be forfeited, diminished.
Queuing up your DVR would feel different outside of New York. No one has ever said so, but I'm sure of it.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALLURE: For millions of people, New York City holds an appeal that is not easy to explain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); COST OF LIVING (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (50%); JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (70%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); MISSOURI, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



203 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN-BOX; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Future in Doubt, But Legacy Isn't

 BODY:
Future in Doubt, But Legacy Isn't
To the Sports Editor;
Re ''Rivera Hurts Knee; Career May Be Over,'' May 4: Identifying the greatest baseball hitter who ever lived will always be a subject of debate. But when it comes to the greatest closer, the debate focuses on who is second best. Even if he never throws another pitch, Mariano Rivera is and I believe always will be the greatest closer who ever lived. 
Norman L. Bender
Woodbridge, Conn.
Banish the Saints
To the Sports Editor:
Re ''N.F.L. Suspends Vilma and Three Other Players for Bounty Scheme,'' May 3: If the N.F.L. was truly serious about rooting out the bounty system, it would suspend the entire New Orleans Saints franchise for a year. That would send a message to the teams that this behavior will not be tolerated.
Andrew Downs
San Rafael, Calif.
Are We Learning Yet?
To the Sports Editor:
Re ''The Coach, the Biographer, and the Final Chapter,'' April 30: ''This is what sports can do,'' the biographer Joe Posnanski wrote, referring to his feeling privileged to be a sportswriter. But sports can also teach a girl to play with the boys (as we girls had to in the small farming community where I was raised), to accept jostling and bruises.
My grandchildren, playing soccer at 3, learned that falling down didn't hurt terribly and that if they wanted to continue to play, they'd better run down the field. As they got older and played baseball, tennis, football and basketball, I think they learned that the team mattered more than their egos. They learned how to win and lose, how to have fun and how to make friends.
Sadly, what sports can also do is show how grown-ups can ruin some aspects of these games.
Dona Stein
Fort Collins, Colo.
First Do No Self-Harm
To the Sports Editor:
Re ''Anger Mismanagement,'' May 2: Athletes who take out their frustration on inanimate objects can cause more harm to themselves and their teammates. A useful short-term solution could be the addition of punching bags (hanging or free-standing) in dugouts, locker rooms and alongside basketball court benches. Striking one would help an athlete vent frustration without inflicting collateral damage.
Robert Blackey
San Bernardino, Calif.
A Misguided Prosecution
To the Sports Editor:
Re ''Pettitte Backs Off Clemens Testimony,'' May 3: As a college student, I will continue to severely feel the effect of the financial crisis. It would be nice to know that the stars of the financial crisis are held to the same standards as the stars of the stadium.
I believe that, rather than prosecuting Roger Clemens, it would be more consequential to consider indicting those in the elite ranks of the financial services industry who may have lied to Congress or falsified filings made to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Clemens has been penalized with a tarnished reputation whether or not he is convicted of lying under oath during his Congressional testimony.
Sarah Winston
Pleasantville, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); WRITERS (90%); SPORTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SOCCER (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); INDICTMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); COLORADO, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



204 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Never Mind Europe. Worry About India.

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
THE economic slowdown in India is one of the world's biggest economic stories, but it is commanding only a modicum of attention in the United States.
It may not even look like a slowdown because by developed standards, India's growth -- estimated by the International Monetary Fund at 6.9 percent for 2012 -- is still strong. But a slowdown it is: the economy has decelerated from projected rates of more than 8 percent, and negative momentum may bring a further decline. The government reported year-over-year growth in the October-through-December quarter of only 6.1 percent.
What is disturbing is that much of the decline in the growth rate is distributed unevenly, with the greatest burden falling on the poor. If the slower rate continues or worsens, many millions of Indians, for another generation, will fail to rise above extreme penury and want. The problems of the euro zone are a pittance by comparison. 
China commands more attention, but Scott B. Sumner, the Bentley College economist, has pointed out it is India that is likely to end up as the world's largest economy by the next century. China's population is likely to peak relatively soon while India's will continue to grow, so under even modestly optimistic projections the Indian economy will be No. 1 in terms of total size.
India also is a potential force for energizing the economies of Bangladesh, Nepal and, perhaps someday, Pakistan and Myanmar. The losses from a poorer India go far beyond the country's borders; furthermore, the wealthier India becomes, the stronger the allure of democracy in the region.
Why is India's economic growth slowing? The causes are varied. They include a less than optimal attitude toward foreign business and investment: recall the Indian government's reversal of its previous willingness to let Wal-Mart enter the retailing sector. The government also has been assessing retroactive taxation on foreign businesses years after incomes are earned and reported. Another problem is the country's energy infrastructure, which has not geared up to meet industrial demand. Coal mining is dominated by an inefficient state-owned company and there are various price controls on both coal and natural gas. Over all, the country does not seem headed toward further liberalization and market-oriented reforms.
These problems can be solved. More troubling are the causes that have no easy fix.
Agriculture employs about half of India's work force, for example, yet the agricultural revolution that flourished in the 1970s has slowed. Crop yields remain stubbornly low, transport and water infrastructure is poor, and the legal system is hostile to foreign investment in basic agriculture and to modern agribusiness. Note that the earlier general growth bursts of Japan, South Korea and Taiwan were all preceded by significant gains in agricultural productivity.
For all of India's economic progress, it is hard to find comparable stirrings in Indian agriculture today. It is estimated that half of all Indian children under the age of 5 suffer from malnutrition.
Another worry is that India's services-based growth spurt may have run much of its course. Call centers, for example, have succeeded by building their own infrastructure and they often function as self-contained, walled minicities. It's impressive that those achievements have been possible, but these economically segregated islands of higher productivity suggest that success is achieved by separating oneself from the broader Indian economy, not by integrating with it.
India also has one of the world's most unwieldy legal systems, and one that seems particularly hard to reform. On the World Bank's Doing Business Index, the country ranks 132 out of 183 listed countries and regions, behind Honduras and the West Bank and Gaza, and just ahead of Nigeria and Syria. One undercurrent of talk is that the days of ''the license Raj'' have returned, referring to the country's earlier subpar economic performance under a regime of heavy government regulation.
ON the positive side of the ledger, the country retains a population with remarkable talent, energy and entrepreneurship. It has worldwide networks of trade and migration, and world-class achievements in entertainment and design, among numerous other strengths. Nonetheless, the previous pace of progress no longer seems guaranteed.
India may not be alone in this slowdown. There is a more general worry that the grouping of disparate giants known as the BRIC nations -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- has, for some reason, lost much of its previous momentum. Last year Brazil grew at only a 2.7 percent rate, down from 7.5 percent, and Chinese and Russian G.D.P. growth are slowing too, to an unknown extent and duration. In the past, many countries engaged in catch-up growth have suddenly slowed and hit plateaus, although economists do not have firmly established theories as to when and why this happened. In any case it remains a real danger.
In the short run, we often focus on headlines, elections and fights between personalities and political parties. But the world is shaped by deeper structural forces, such as resources, technologies, demographics and economic growth rates. We ignore India's troubling trends at our peril.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Farmers on the outskirts of Chennai, India. The nation's efforts to modernize agriculture have been slowing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN G/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (65%); AGRICULTURE (63%); COAL MINING (60%); PRODUCTIVITY (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



205 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: A U.S. Drug War Inside Honduras, Waged Iraq-Style

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
FORWARD OPERATING BASE MOCORON, Honduras -- The United States military has brought lessons from the past decade of conflict to the drug war being fought in the wilderness of Miskito Indian country, constructing this remote base camp with little public notice but with the support of the Honduran government.
It is one of three new forward bases here -- one in the rain forest, one on the savanna and one along the coast -- each in a crucial location to interdict smugglers moving cocaine toward the United States from South America.
Honduras is the latest focal point in America's drug war. As Mexico puts the squeeze on narcotics barons using its territory as a transit hub, more than 90 percent of the cocaine from Colombia and Venezuela bound for the United States passes through Central America. More than a third of those narcotics make their way through Honduras, a country with vast ungoverned areas -- and one of the highest per capita homicide rates in the world. 
This new offensive, emerging just as the United States military winds down its conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and is moving to confront emerging threats, also showcases the nation's new way of war: small-footprint missions with limited numbers of troops, partnerships with foreign military and police forces that take the lead in security operations, and narrowly defined goals, whether aimed at insurgents, terrorists or criminal groups that threaten American interests.
The effort draws on hard lessons learned from a decade of counterinsurgency in Afghanistan and Iraq, where troops were moved from giant bases to outposts scattered across remote, hostile areas so they could face off against insurgents.
But the mission here has been adapted to strict rules of engagement prohibiting American combat in Central America, a delicate issue given Washington's messy history in Honduras, which was the base for the secret operation once run by Oliver North to funnel money and arms to rebels fighting in neighboring Nicaragua. Some skeptics still worry that the American military might accidentally empower thuggish elements of local security forces.
In past drug operations, helicopters ferrying Honduran and American antinarcotics squads took off from the capital, Tegucigalpa, whenever an intelligence task force identified radar tracks of a smuggler's aircraft. The three-hour flights required to reach cartel rendezvous points did not leave much idle time to spot airplanes as they unloaded tons of cocaine to dugout canoes, which then paddled downriver beneath the jungle canopy to meet fast boats and submersibles at the coast for the trip north.
In creating the new outposts -- patterned on the forward bases in Iraq and Afghanistan that gave troops a small, secure home on insurgent turf -- spartan but comfortable barracks were built. Giant tanks hold 4,500 gallons of helicopter fuel. Solar panels augment generators. Each site supports two-week rotations for 55 people, all no more than 30 to 45 minutes' flying time from most smuggling handoff points.
Before his assignment to Central America, Col. Ross A. Brown spent 2005 and 2006 in Iraq as commander of the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment's Third Squadron, responsible for southern Baghdad. It was a time so violent that President George W. Bush ordered an increase in troop levels to retake the initiative.
Colonel Brown is now commander of Joint Task Force-Bravo, where he and just 600 troops are responsible for the military's efforts across all of Central America. He is under orders to maintain a discreet footprint, supporting local authorities and the Drug Enforcement Administration, which leads the American counternarcotics mission.
American troops here cannot fire except in self-defense, and they are barred from responding with force even if Honduran or Drug Enforcement Administration agents are in danger. Within these prohibitions, the military marshals personnel, helicopters, surveillance airplanes and logistical support that Honduras and even the State Department and D.E.A. cannot.
''By countering transnational organized crime, we promote stability, which is necessary for external investment, economic growth and minimizing violence,'' Colonel Brown said. ''We also are disrupting and deterring the potential nexus between transnational organized criminals and terrorists who would do harm to our country.''
To reach Forward Operating Base Mocoron, an Army Black Hawk helicopter flew through fog-shrouded canyons, over triple-canopy rain forest and across savannas that bore dozens of 200-yard scratches -- pirate runways for drug smugglers.
Conducting operations during a recent day at the outpost were members of the Honduran Tactical Response Team, the nation's top-tier counternarcotics unit. They were working alongside the Foreign-deployed Advisory Support Team, or FAST, created by the Drug Enforcement Administration to disrupt the poppy trade in Afghanistan. With the campaign in Afghanistan winding down -- and with lowered expectations of what Washington can do to halt heroin trafficking there -- FAST members were in Honduras to plan interdiction missions in Central America.
And Honduran Special Operations forces, with trainers from American Special Forces -- the Army's Green Berets -- were ferried from the outpost by Honduran helicopters to plant explosives that would cut craters into smugglers' runways. Honduran infantrymen provided security for the outpost, which remains under Honduran command.
Those missions were conducted amid reminders of the dirty wars of the 1980s. One such reminder was a delegation of Congressional staff members visiting recently to assess local forces' respect of human rights. Legislation prohibits United States military assistance to foreign forces that violate human rights, so before Joint Task Force-Bravo can cooperate with Central American militaries, they must be certified by American embassies in the countries where those operations are to take place.
Another reminder sits across the runway at Soto Cano Air Base, the large Honduran base outside the capital that hosts a local military academy and Colonel Brown's headquarters. Behind a high fence is a compound once used by Mr. North, a Marine lieutenant colonel at the center of the Iran-contra operation, a clandestine effort to sell weapons to Iran and divert profits to support rebels in Nicaragua, despite legislation prohibiting assistance to the group because of human rights abuses. Today, tropical undergrowth is erasing traces of the secret base.
But that history still casts a shadow, skeptics of the American effort say.
''We know from the Reagan years that the infrastructure of the country of Honduras -- both its governance machinery as well as its security forces -- simply is not strong enough, is not corruption-proof enough, is not anti-venal enough to be a bastion of democracy,'' said Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a policy research group in Washington.
The American ambassador to Honduras, Lisa J. Kubiske, is responsible for bringing order to the complex and sometimes competing mix of interagency programs, and she oversees compliance with human rights legislation. She described the Honduran armed forces as ''eager and capable partners in this joint effort.''
One of those partners, Cmdr. Pablo Rodriguez of the Honduran Navy, is the senior officer at the second of the forward bases, at Puerto Castilla on the coast. He pointed to his ''bonus fleet'' of several dozen vessels seized from smugglers, the fastest of which were retrofitted with Kevlar armor over outboard engines and mounts for machine guns for chasing drug runners. The improvements were financed by the State Department.
''We have limitations on how quickly we can move, even when we get strong indications of a shipment of drugs,'' Commander Rodriguez said. ''We can't do anything without air support. So that's why it's very important to have the United States coming in here.''
Permanent American deployments overseas are shrinking to match a smaller Pentagon budget -- and missions will increasingly reflect partnership efforts traditionally assigned to Special Operations forces. A significant effort is the presence of 200 of those troops assigned as trainers across Central America.
The third forward base, at El Aguacate in central Honduras, has sprung from an abandoned airstrip used by the C.I.A. during the Reagan era.
Narcotics cartels, transnational organized crime and gang violence are designated as threats by the United States and Central American governments, with a broader consensus than when that base was built -- in an era when the region was viewed through a narrow prism of communism and anticommunism.
''The drug demand in the United States certainly exacerbates challenges placed upon our neighboring countries fighting against these organizations -- and why it is so important that we partner with them in their countering efforts,'' said Vice Adm. Joseph D. Kernan, the No. 2 officer at Southern Command, which is responsible for military activities in Central and South America.
Before this assignment, Admiral Kernan spent years in Navy SEAL combat units, and he sees the effort to combat drug cartels as necessary to preventing terrorists from co-opting criminal groups for attacks in this hemisphere.
There are ''insidious'' parallels between regional criminal organizations and terror networks, Admiral Kernan said. ''They operate without regard to borders,'' he said, in order to smuggle drugs, people, weapons and money.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Honduran soldiers at Forward Operating Base Mocoron, one of three outposts from which cocaine trafficking is being combated
left, a suspect in a suburb of Tegucigalpa
 an American task force member refueling a Black Hawk helicopter in Puerto Castilla. More photographs: nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) MAP (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); COCAINE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); HOMICIDE (67%); HELICOPTERS (65%); TERRORISM (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (52%); POLICE FORCES (51%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); HONDURAS (99%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



206 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BY THE BOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Neil Gaiman

 BODY:
What book is on your night stand now?
There are a few. My current audiobook (Yes, they count; of course they count; why wouldn't they?) is ''The Sisters Brothers,'' by Patrick deWitt. It was recommended by Lemony Snicket (through his representative, Daniel Handler), and I trust Mr. Snicket implicitly. (Or anyway, as implicitly as one can trust someone you have never met, and who may simply be a pen name of the man who played accordion at your wedding.) I'm enjoying it -- such a sad, funny book about family, framed in a Wild West of prospectors and casual murder. 
My ''make this last as long as you can'' book is ''Just My Type: A Book About Fonts.'' It's illuminated a subject I thought I understood, but I didn't, and its chapter on the wrongnesses of Comic Sans came alive for me recently visiting a friend at a Florida retirement community, in which every name on every door was printed in Comic Sans. The elderly deserve more respect than that. Except for the lady I was visiting, widow of a comics artist. For her, it might have been appropriate. On the iPad there are several books on the go, but they are all by friends, and none of them is actually published yet, so I will not name them.
When and where do you like to read?
When I can. I read less fiction these days, and it worries me, although my recent discovery that wearing reading glasses makes the action of reading more pleasurable is, I think, up there with discovering how to split the atom or America. Neither of which I did. (I clarify this for readers in a hurry.)
What was the last truly great book you read?
''The Sorcerer's House,'' by Gene Wolfe, amazed me. It was such a cunning book, and it went so deep. A foxy fantasy about a house that grows, with chapters that are the Greater Trumps of a tarot deck.
The latest graphic novel I read was ''Dotter of Her Father's Eyes,'' by Mary M. Talbot, drawn by Bryan Talbot. I have known the Talbots for 30 years -- Bryan drew some ''Sandman'' comics -- and admired Bryan's work for almost 40 years. (How old is he? How old am I?) I wasn't expecting such a beautiful, personal mingling of biography (of Lucia, James Joyce's daughter) and autobiography (Mary's father was a Joycean scholar) told so winningly and wisely. It's short but is, I think, truly great.
Are you a fiction or a nonfiction person? What's your favorite literary genre? Any guilty pleasures?
My guiltiest pleasure is Harry Stephen Keeler. He may have been the greatest bad writer America has ever produced. Or perhaps the worst great writer. I do not know. There are few faults you can accuse him of that he is not guilty of. But I love him.
How can you not love a man who wrote books with names like ''The Riddle of the Traveling Skull''? Or ''The Case of the Transposed Legs''?
I get into arguments with Otto Penzler, of the Mysterious Bookshop in New York, when I say things like that. ''No, Neil!'' he splutters. ''He was just a bad writer!''
Otto still takes my money when I buy Keeler books like ''The Skull of the Waltzing Clown'' from him. But the expression on his face takes some of the fun out of it. And then I read a paragraph like:
''For it must be remembered that at the time I knew quite nothing, naturally, concerning Milo Payne, the mysterious Cockney-talking Englishman with the checkered long-beaked Sherlockholmsian cap; nor of the latter's 'Barr-Bag,' which was as like my own bag as one Milwaukee wienerwurst is like another; nor of Legga, the Human Spider, with her four legs and her six arms; nor of Ichabod Chang, ex-convict, and son of Dong Chang; nor of the elusive poetess, Abigail Sprigge; nor of the Great Simon, with his 2,163 pearl buttons; nor of -- in short, I then knew quite nothing about anything or anybody involved in the affair of which I had now become a part, unless perchance it were my Nemesis, Sophie Kratzenschneiderwumpel -- or Suing Sophie!''
And then I do not give a fig for Otto's expression, for as guilty pleasures go, Keeler is as strangely good as it gets.
What book had the greatest impact on you? What book made you want to write?
I don't know if any single book made me want to write. C. S. Lewis was the first writer to make me aware that somebody was writing the book I was reading -- these wonderful parenthetical asides to the reader. I would think: ''When I am a writer, I shall do parenthetical asides. And footnotes. There will be footnotes. I wonder how you do them? And italics. How do you make italics happen?''
These days kids understand fonts and italics, and computers mean that the days of literary magic are done. But back then, we had to hand-carve our own fonts . . . well, more or less. I did have to learn the mysteries of copy-editing symbols, when I was a young journalist.
P. L. (Pamela) Travers, who wrote the Mary Poppins books, made me want to tell stories like that. Ones that seemed like they had existed forever, and were true in a way that real things that had actually happened could never be.
There were a handful of other authors who made me want to be a writer. And I think what they all had in common was that they made it look like fun. G. K. Chesterton, who delighted in painting pictures in sentences, like a child let loose with a paint box. Roger Zelazny, who reshaped myth and magic into science fiction. Harlan Ellison and Michael Moorcock, Samuel R. Delany, Ursula K. Le Guin (although she intimidated me) and Hope Mirrlees, who only wrote one good book, ''Lud-in-the-Mist.'' But if you write a book that good you do not need to do it again.
If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?
One of mine. Preferably on a day when he gets asked a really awkward question at a press conference he'd rather not answer. So he'd distract them by going, ''The economy? Bombing Iran? Wall Street? You know. . . . I read this really great book the other day by Neil Gaiman. Has anyone here read it? 'American Gods'? I mean, that scene at the end of Chapter 1. . . . What the heck was going on there?''
Look, J.F.K. made the James Bond franchise by talking about how much he liked the books. I can dream.
What are your reading habits? Paper or electronic? Do you take notes?
I like reading. I prefer not reading on my computer, because that makes whatever I am reading feel like work. I do not mind reading on my iPad. I have a Kindle, somewhere, but almost never use it, and a Kindle app on my phone, my iPad and on pretty much everything except the toaster, and I use that, because I am besotted by Kindle's ability to know where I am in a book. I've been using it to read Huge Books of the kind I always meant to read, or to finish, but didn't, because carrying them around stopped being fun. Books like ''The Count of Monte Cristo.''
Do you prefer a book that makes you laugh or makes you cry? One that teaches you something or one that distracts you?
Yes.
Wait, do you think those things are exclusive? That books can only be one or the other? I would rather read a book with all of those things in it: a laughing, crying, educating, distracting book. And I would like more than that, the kind of book where the pages groan under the weight of keeping all such opposites apart.
Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were supposed to like, and didn't? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?
No. Perhaps because there have been few books in recent years I actually broke up with, realizing we were not right for each other. There are instead books I have stopped seeing, and vaguely intend to finish one day, the next time I run into them, but they are vaguer, more general things.
I remember the first book I didn't finish, though. It was ''Mistress of Mistresses,'' by E. R. Eddison. I was around 17, and I'd finished every book I'd started before then. It was inconceivable to me not to. I'd read and mostly enjoyed Eddison's ''The Worm Ouroboros,'' a fantasy epic written in a lush, thick, cod-Elizabethan style that started off irritating and then became part of the fun. I bought ''Mistress of Mistresses'' and abandoned it a third of the way through. It was gloriously liberating, the idea that I didn't have to finish every book.
But mostly, I did. If I started it, I'd read it to the end: until I found myself a judge of the Arthur C. Clarke Awards in the U.K., and obliged to read every science-fiction book published in the U.K. in the year of eligibility. I was a judge for two years. The first year, I read everything. The second year, I read a lot of first chapters and took delight in hurling books across the room if I knew I would not be reading the second chapter.
Then I'd go and pick them up again, because they are books, after all, and we are not savages.
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know? Have you ever written to an author?
As a teenager I wrote to R. A. Lafferty. And he responded, too, with letters that were like R. A. Lafferty short stories, filled with elliptical answers to straight questions and simple answers to complicated ones.
He was a sui generis writer, the oddest and most frustratingly delightful of American tall-tale tellers. Not a lot of people have read him, and even fewer like what he wrote, but those of us who like him like him all the way. We never met.
The last time I wrote to Lafferty, he had Alzheimer's and was in a home in Oklahoma, shortly before his death, and I do not believe he read or understood the letter, but it made me feel like I was doing something right by writing it and sending it.
What's the best comic book you've ever read? Graphic novel?
Ow. That's hard. I think I love Eddie Campbell's ''ALEC: The Years Have Pants'' best of everything, but it's a hard call.
Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell's ''From Hell'' is pretty wonderful, after all. ''Watchmen'' had a bigger influence on me than anything else, reading and rereading it a comic at a time as it was published, as did the ''High Society'' and ''Church and State'' sequences of Dave Sim's ''Cerebus.''
And Will Eisner's ''The Spirit'' is funny and sad, educational and entertaining (read the books, ignore the movie).
I'm about to start building giant lists of comics and graphic novels here, so I will stop. (Quick! Read anything by Lynda Barry!)
There. I stopped.
What do you plan to read next?
''The Night Circus'' by Erin Morgenstern. I have so many proof copies of the book, given to me by people certain that if I read it I would love it, that I feel guilty. They stare at me from all over the house. I resisted when Audrey Niffenegger told me I had to read it, but when my daughter Holly told me how much she loved it, I knew I would have to succumb.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



207 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Pooja Kumar, Jonathan Welch

 BODY:
Dr. Pooja Kumar and Dr. Jonathan Robert Welch were married Saturday at Harvard University's Memorial Church in Cambridge, Mass. The Rev. Dr. Dorothy A. Austin, an Episcopal priest and a Harvard chaplain, performed the ceremony. 
Dr. Kumar, 32, is keeping her name. She is a manager for health care projects in Boston at McKinsey & Company, the consultancy. She graduated from Duke, received a master's degree in history from Oxford, where she studied as a Rhodes Scholar, and received a medical degree from Harvard.
She is the daughter of Sheila and Suresh Kumar of Princeton, N.J. The bride's father was, until March, the director-general of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service, an agency of the Commerce Department that promotes American trade interests. He worked in Washington. Her mother was, until February, the vice president for market research at Johnson & Johnson, the consumer products and pharmaceuticals company. She worked in Skillman, N.J.
Dr. Welch, 34, is an instructor in medicine at Harvard Medical School, and is an attending physician in emergency medicine at the Brigham and Women's Hospital, both in Boston. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin at Madison and was a Fulbright scholar in Lima, Peru, studying patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. He received a master's degree in health policy from the London School of Economics and a medical degree from Harvard.
He is a son of Robert W. Welch of Racine, Wis., and the late Margaret A. Welch. The bridegroom's mother retired as a home-economics teacher at Reuther Central High School in Kenosha, Wis., and was the director of the school's program for teenage mothers. His father retired as a section manager in the research, development and engineering division at S. C. Johnson & Son, the household products manufacturer in Racine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (79%); HISTORY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DRUG RESISTANCE (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (66%); TUBERCULOSIS (65%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); S C JOHNSON & SON PTE LTD (53%); S C JOHNSON & SON DE ARGENTINA SAIC (53%); S C JOHNSON & SON INC (53%); S C JOHNSON & SON TAIWAN LTD (53%); S C JOHNSON & SON DE VENEZUELA CA (53%); S C JOHNSON & SON COLOMBIANA SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); UNITED STATES & FOREIGN COMMERCIAL SERVICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2842 SPECIALTY CLEANING, POLISHING, & SANITATION PREPARATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



208 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: At California State, Protesters Start a Fast

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
NORTHRIDGE, Calif. -- Angry about tuition increases and cuts in courses and enrollment, a dozen students at California State University have taken their protest beyond marches -- their usual tactic -- and declared a hunger strike.
On Thursday, the second day of the fast, supporters were preparing a kale, apple and celery juice concoction for the protesters at the Northridge campus. The students have pledged to forgo solid food for at least a week, perhaps longer if the administration does not move to meet some of their demands, which include a five-year moratorium on student fee increases and a rollback of executive salaries to 1999 levels.
The fasting protest was the latest display of anger at the 23 California State University campuses. The system has lost roughly $970 million in state financing since 2008, and administrators have said they have no choice but to increase tuition. 
But while California's governor and Legislature are responsible for the state budget that the system relies on, university administrators have received the brunt of student and faculty furor. Protesters say the administration has allocated too much money for their own salaries and perks, and not enough for faculty and facilities. Negotiations with the faculty union have broken down.
''It's like they forget that we're the reason the university exists,'' said Sarah Garcia, one of four students at the Northridge campus who is participating in the fast. ''What we have now is so much less than we thought we would be getting when we enrolled here.''
Ms. Garcia, a sophomore majoring in deaf studies, said she is taking only one required class this semester because she was unable to enroll in any others.
Ms. Garcia voiced her frustration to prospective students touring campus on Friday, even as she encouraged them to enroll. As visitors passed a table with information from the protesters, she asked them to sign a petition supporting their efforts. As they signed, another student prepared the juice concoction for the protesters.
Faculty members, too, are moving to express their displeasure. The union representing faculty members, which has been supportive of the student protests, announced last week that members had voted to authorize a rolling strike at campuses statewide after efforts to reach an agreement on a contract stalled after nearly two years of negotiations.
The rolling two-day strike, which would most likely take place in the fall, would be the largest in state history and would affect more than 400,000 students, the union said.
Faculty members on two campuses, Dominguez Hills and East Bay, held a strike last fall, the first in the faculty union's nearly three-decade history. The union has asked for a 1 percent raise and says administrators have asked to freeze faculty salaries, which have not increased since 2008.
But even more concerning than the salary issue, they say, is the university's reliance on part-time lecturers, some of whom teach a full load of courses but do not have tenure. Those lecturers make roughly $50,000 a year, about half of what a tenured professor makes.
University officials are trying to end a policy that automatically renews contracts for such lecturers; the union is arguing that such a change would limit academic freedom.
Emily Magruder, a humanities lecturer at Dominguez Hills, said that when she began teaching eight years ago, she had about 45 students in each class. Now, she said, her classes have ballooned to 60.
''You can't have the contact you want to have with students, and you spend an enormous amount of time grading,'' she said. ''Research is supposed to be the backbone of academia, but to survive economically, this is the only choice.''
Since the 2007-8 school year, tuition at California State University has climbed to $5,472, from $2,772. Tuition is higher during the summer sessions, which many students rely on to take courses that otherwise fill up quickly.
The anger escalated last year when San Diego State University hired a new president with a salary of $400,000, about $100,000 more than his predecessor, while increasing tuition by 12 percent. In January, the board of trustees approved a plan to freeze the use of state money for pay increases until 2014, although they will continue to allow individual campuses to use money from private donors and foundations when it is ''deemed necessary.''
The system's financial situation could become even worse. If voters do not approve a tax measure on the November ballot pushed by Gov. Jerry Brown, the system will face another $200 million cut, which administrators have said would force them to further cut enrollment, eliminate roughly 3,000 faculty and staff positions and shutter some academic and athletic programs.
Already, enrollment on most campuses will be frozen next spring, and campuses limit the number of courses students can enroll in.
''The budget has made it extremely difficult to do what we want,'' said Mike Uhlenkamp, a spokesman for the chancellor. ''We are really burdened by what is going on in the state, but we don't control purse strings. Putting a moratorium on tuition increases sounds great, but if we would have done that five years ago, we would have lost many more students.''
Mr. Uhlenkamp said that most administrators had not had a raise in five years and that the increases were needed to attract top candidates.
But doing so could become more difficult. ''California was once the model system, and now that seems to be breaking down at every level,'' said Ronald G. Ehrenberg, the director of the Higher Education Research Institute at Cornell. ''Cal State was the opportunity that many of the poorest students in the state had to make it into the middle class. By forcing them to restrict enrollment numbers, you're almost eating the seed corn of the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students made juice for four others who are fasting in protest at the Northridge campus of California State University. A dozen students in the system are forgoing solid food for at least a week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PETITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); STRIKES (75%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



209 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: At a Hearing, 9/11 Detainees Show Defiance

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE; Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
GUANTANAMO BAY, Cuba -- Khalid Shaikh Mohammed fingered his long, henna-dyed beard and stared down in silence on Saturday, pointedly ignoring a military commissions judge asking in vain whether the self-described architect of the Sept. 11 attacks understood what was being said and whether he was willing to be represented by his defense lawyers.
Minutes later, Ramzi bin al Shibh, another of the five detainees arraigned on Saturday as accused conspirators in the attacks, stood, knelt and started praying. Later, he shouted at the judge that he should address their complaints about prison conditions because ''maybe you are not going to see me again.''
''Maybe they are going to kill us and say that we have committed suicide,'' he added. 
One defendant, Walid bin Attash, was wheeled into the courtroom in a restraint chair for reasons that were not disclosed.
Amid disruptions both passive and aggressive, the government's attempt to restart its efforts to prosecute the five defendants in the long-delayed Sept. 11 case got off to a slow and rocky start in a trial that could ultimately result in their execution.
After hours of jostling over procedural issues, all five defendants deferred entering a plea. The judge set a hearing date for motions in mid-June; the trial is not likely to start for at least a year.
The Bush administration had started to prosecute the men in the military commissions system in 2008.
The Obama administration tried to transfer the case to a federal court in Lower Manhattan, a short distance from the World Trade Center site, but the plan collapsed amid security fears and a backlash in Congress.
As defense lawyers repeatedly tried to change the subject to security restrictions that they say have hampered their ability to do their jobs, the judge, Army Col. James L. Pohl, struggled to stick to a military commissions script that had been rewritten the day before -- and so was not yet translated into Arabic.
The judge, however, was determined to keep the case on track. When a lawyer for Mr. Mohammed, David Nevin, explained that his client had decided not to respond to the judge's questions about his assigned defense lawyers in order to protest what he saw as an unfair process, Colonel Pohl replied that he would assume that he had no objections to being represented by them.
''He has that choice,'' Colonel Pohl said of Mr. Mohammed's silence. ''But he does not have a choice that would frustrate this commission going forward.''
The arraignment was the first time since 2008 that the five high-profile Qaeda detainees had been seen in public. They wore loose, light-colored garb; their lawyers complained that they had brought other clothes to wear, but that prison officials refused to let them wear it.
Four walked into the courtroom without shackles but surrounded by three large guards who stood between them when the court was not in session. With Mr. bin Attash initially restrained, guards put glasses on his face and attached his prosthetic leg.
Colonel Pohl said he would have the restraints taken off if Mr. bin Attash would pledge not to disrupt the court, but Mr. bin Attash refused to answer him. Eventually, the restraints were removed after the judge accepted a promise relayed through Mr. bin Attash's lawyer.
While passive when the judge tried to talk to them, the detainees occasionally whispered to one another. During brief recesses, they talked freely to their defense lawyers, and while guards came and stood between them, they craned their necks and talked to each other as well, appearing relaxed.
Each detainee also had a bin containing items liked legal papers, Korans, prayer rugs and other materials. Mr. Mohammed, wearing a black skullcap, took a white cloth from his bin and fashioned it into a sort of turban. One detainee, Ali Abd al Aziz Ali, had a copy of the Economist magazine, which he appeared to be reading and later handed to a detainee sitting behind him, Mustafa al Hawsawi, who leafed through it.
The detainees refused, however, to wear headphones so they could hear a simultaneous Arabic translation. To make sure they knew what was being asked, the judge directed translators to repeat in Arabic over a loudspeaker each phrase that was uttered in the courtroom, sometimes causing a confusing jumble and significantly slowing the process -- especially after Mr. bin Attash insisted that prosecutors read the full charges, which consumed more than two hours.
The arraignment was the latest chapter for the detainees, who were captured and held for years in secret overseas prisons by the Central Intelligence Agency and subjected to harsh interrogation techniques. In 2008, they were charged before a tribunal and seen for the first time; Mr. Mohammed's beard then was gray, and his behavior during pretrial motions was marked by frequent outbursts, not silence.
The high-security courtroom at this naval base was sealed; anything the detainees say is considered presumptively classified, and at one point censors cut off an audio feed when a defense lawyer said his client had been tortured, but later comments about torture were not. The sound also cut out at first when Mr. bin al Shibh began shouting -- but was turned back on midway through.
Among the observers watching the proceeding behind soundproof glass were several family members of the nearly 3,000 people killed in the Sept. 11 attacks, separated from reporters and other observers by a blue curtain. (A closed-circuit feed was also broadcast to several locations around the United States.)
Several family members could be heard muttering when the lawyer for Mr. bin Attash, Cheryl Borman -- who wore traditional black Muslim garb, covering everything but her face -- asked women on the prosecution team to consider dressing more modestly so that the defendants would not have to avoid looking at them ''for fear of committing a sin under their faith.'' The women were wearing military or civilian jackets and skirts.
Ms. Borman later sought a court order preventing prison guards from forcibly extracting detainees from cells if they did not want to come to the next hearing, saying Mr. bin Attash had ''scars on his arms''; as she spoke, he took off his shirts, but put them back on after the judge admonished him. Mr. Nevin also complained that Mr. Mohammed had been strip-searched that morning -- which, along with not being allowed to wear the clothes their lawyers had brought for them, and not having a translation of the just-rewritten hearing script -- had ''inflamed the situation.''
Colonel Pohl said several such concerns were valid, but he would take them up at the next hearing.
Family members also whispered angrily about the disruptions. Against the backdrop of scrutiny over whether the military commissions system was a fair venue, Colonel Pohl appeared to be giving broader leeway to the defendants and the defense lawyers than many federal judges would tolerate.
Throughout the hearing, for example, lawyers for the detainees repeatedly raised complaints about restrictions on their ability to communicate, including problems with translators and a prison policy of looking through mail about the case. Colonel Pohl told them again and again not to raise an issue he had already said would be addressed later.
And when Mr. bin al Shibh stood and began praying, Colonel Pohl did not order guards to intervene. Later, when all five detainees returned from an hour break and then started praying in the courtroom, delaying the hearing by 20 minutes, he expressed only mild frustration.
''I fully respect the accused's request for prayer,'' he said. ''It's a right for them to have it. But a right can still be abused, if you understand me.''
Donald Guter, a retired rear admiral who was formerly the top judge advocate general in the navy, attended the arraignment at the Navy base on behalf of Human Rights First. A critic of military commissions, he praised Colonel Pohl's temperament -- suggesting that the judge's patience on procedural issues was probably aimed at ''carrying over into a perception of fairness on the substantive issues.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the top defendant, in 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY COURTS (90%); PRISONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ARMIES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); TERRORISM (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SUICIDE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



210 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MONEY ISSUE; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 4236 words

HEADLINE: Are the Rich Worth a Damn?

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON

 BODY:
Ever since the financial crisis started, we've heard plenty from the 1 percent. We've heard them giving defensive testimony in Congressional hearings or issuing anodyne statements flanked by lawyers and image consultants. They typically repeat platitudes about investment, risk-taking and job creation with the veiled contempt that the nation doesn't understand their contribution. You get the sense that they're afraid to say what they really believe. What do the superrich say when the cameras aren't there?
With that in mind, I recently met Edward Conard on 57th Street and Madison Avenue, just outside his office at Bain Capital, the private-equity firm he helped build into a multibillion-dollar business by buying, fixing up and selling off companies at a profit. Conard, who retired a few years ago at 51, is not merely a member of the 1 percent. He's a member of the 0.1 percent. His wealth is most likely in the hundreds of millions; he lives in an Upper East Side town house just off Fifth Avenue; and he is one of the largest donors to his old boss and friend, Mitt Romney. 
Unlike his former colleagues, Conard wants to have an open conversation about wealth. He has spent the last four years writing a book that he hopes will forever change the way we view the superrich's role in our society. ''Unintended Consequences: Why Everything You've Been Told About the Economy Is Wrong,'' to be published in hardcover next month by Portfolio, aggressively argues that the enormous and growing income inequality in the United States is not a sign that the system is rigged. On the contrary, Conard writes, it is a sign that our economy is working. And if we had a little more of it, then everyone, particularly the 99 percent, would be better off. This could be the most hated book of the year.
Conard understands that many believe that the U.S. economy currently serves the rich at the expense of everyone else. He contends that this is largely because most Americans don't know how the economy really works -- that the superrich spend only a small portion of their wealth on personal comforts; most of their money is invested in productive businesses that make life better for everyone. ''Most citizens are consumers, not investors,'' he told me during one of our long, occasionally contentious conversations. ''They don't recognize the benefits to consumers that come from investment.''
This is the usual defense of the 1 percent. Conard, however, has laid out a tightly argued case for just how much consumers actually benefit from the wealthy. Take computers, for example. A small number of innovators and investors may have earned disproportionate billions as the I.T. industry grew, but they got that money by competing to constantly improve their products and simultaneously lower prices. Their work has helped everyone get a lot more value. Cheap, improved computing helps us do our jobs more effectively and, often, earn more money. Countless other industries (travel, telecom, entertainment) use that computing power to lower their prices and enhance their products. This generally makes life more efficient and helps the economy grow.
The idea that society benefits when investors compete successfully is pretty widely accepted. Dean Baker, a prominent progressive economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research, says that most economists believe society often benefits from investments by the wealthy. Baker estimates the ratio is 5 to 1, meaning that for every dollar an investor earns, the public receives the equivalent of $5 of value. The Google founder Sergey Brin might be very rich, but the world is far richer than he is because of Google. Conard said Baker was undercounting the social benefits of investment. He looks, in particular, at agriculture, where, since the 1940s, the cost of food has steadily fallen because of a constant stream of innovations. While the businesses that profit from that innovation -- like seed companies and fast-food restaurants -- have made their owners rich, the average U.S. consumer has benefited far more. Conard concludes that for every dollar an investor gets, the public reaps up to $20 in value. This is crucial to his argument: he thinks it proves that we should all appreciate the vast wealth of others more, because we're benefiting, proportionally, from it.
Google's contribution is obvious. What about investment banks, with their complicated financial derivatives and overleveraged balance sheets? Conard argues that they make the economy more efficient, too. The financial crisis, he writes, was not the result of corrupt bankers selling dodgy financial products. It was a simple, old-fashioned run on the banks, which, he says, were just doing their job. There are a huge number of people in our economy who want ready access to their savings -- pension-fund managers, insurance companies and you and me with our bank accounts. And because economic growth comes from long-term investments in things like housing, factories and research, the central role of banks, Conard says, is to turn the short-term assets of nervous savers into risky long-term loans that help the economy grow.
Every once in a while, this system breaks down. For one reason or another, the savers panic and demand all their money back. This causes a massive problem because the money isn't sitting at the bank; it's out in the world in the form of long-term loans. ''A lot of people don't realize that what happened in 2008 was nearly identical to what happened in 1929,'' he says. ''Depositors ran to the bank to withdraw their money only to discover, like the citizens of Bedford Falls'' -- referring to the movie ''It's a Wonderful Life'' -- ''that there was no money in the vault. All that money had been lent.''
In 2008 it was large pension funds, insurance companies and other huge institutional investors that withdrew in panic. Conard argues in retrospect that it was these withdrawals that led to the crisis -- not, as so many others have argued, an orgy of irresponsible lending. He points to the fact that, according to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, banks lost $320 billion through mortgage-backed securities, but withdrawals disproportionately amounted to five times that. This stance, which largely absolves the banks, is not shared by many analysts. Regardless, Conard told me: ''The banks did what we wanted them to do. They put short-term money back into the economy. What they didn't expect is that depositors would withdraw their money, because they hadn't withdrawn their money en masse since 1929.''
Conard concedes that the banks made some mistakes, but the important thing now, he says, is to provide them even stronger government support. He advocates creating a new government program that guarantees to bail out the banks if they ever face another run. As for exotic derivatives, Conard doesn't see a problem. He argues that collateralized-debt obligations, credit-default swaps, mortgage-backed securities and other (now deemed toxic) financial products were fundamentally sound. They were new tools that served a market need for the world's most sophisticated investors, who bought them in droves. And they didn't cause the panic anyway, he says; the withdrawals did.
Even though these big conclusions are at odds with most other accounts, several economists said that they see Conard's description of the crisis as more than just an apologia for the banking class (though it certainly is that, too). Andrei Shleifer, an influential Harvard economist, told me that he thought Conard was ''genuinely fantastic on finance.''
''Unintended Consequences'' only mentions Romney by name once (and in the acknowledgments, at that), but Conard hopes that the arguments detailed in his book will help readers understand why it's so crucial that his former boss -- who believes the government should help the investor class -- win this November. As I read ''Unintended Consequences,'' though, I wondered if the book would have the opposite effect. Even staunch Republicans and many members of the Tea Party might bristle at a worldview that celebrates the coastal elite and says many talented people in the middle class aren't pulling their weight. Was Conard saddling his old boss with another example of how out of touch those with car elevators and multiple Cadillacs can be? In this time of overheated arguments between opponents who rarely listen to one another, here was a rare member of the 1 percent openly trying to make his case. How convincing is it?
Conard and I eventually sat down at a cafe off Madison. His book is filled with a lot of abstraction, so I asked him to show me how his ideas play out in the real world.
Conard picked up a soda can and pointed to the way the can's side bent inward at the top. ''I worked with the company that makes the machine that tapers that can,'' he told me. That little taper allows manufacturers to make the same size can with a tiny bit less aluminum. ''It saves a fraction of a penny on every can,'' he said. ''There are a lot of soda cans in the world. That means the economy can produce more cans with the same amount of resources. It makes every American who buys a soda can a little bit richer because their paycheck buys more.''
It might be hard to get excited about milligrams of aluminum, but Conard says that we live longer, healthier and richer lives because of countless microimprovements like that one. The people looking for them, Conard likes to point out, are not only computer programmers, engineers and scientists. They are also wealthy investors like him, who are willing to risk their own money to finance improvements that may or may not work. There is a huge mechanism constantly trying to seek out and support these new ideas -- entrepreneurs, multinationals and, crucially for Conard, investment firms and hedge funds and everyone down to individual bond traders. As Conard told me, one of the crucial lessons he learned at Bain is that it makes no sense to look for easy solutions. In a competitive market, all that's left are the truly hard puzzles. And they require extraordinary resources. While we often hear about the greatest successes -- penicillin, the iPhone -- we rarely hear about the countless failures and the people and companies who financed them.
A central problem with the U.S. economy, he told me, is finding a way to get more people to look for solutions despite these terrible odds of success. Conard's solution is simple. Society benefits if the successful risk takers get a lot of money. For proof, he looks to the market. At a nearby table we saw three young people with plaid shirts and floppy hair. For all we know, they may have been plotting the next generation's Twitter, but Conard felt sure they were merely lounging on the sidelines. ''What are they doing, sitting here, having a coffee at 2:30?'' he asked. ''I'm sure those guys are college-educated.'' Conard, who occasionally flashed a mean streak during our talks, started calling the group ''art-history majors,'' his derisive term for pretty much anyone who was lucky enough to be born with the talent and opportunity to join the risk-taking, innovation-hunting mechanism but who chose instead a less competitive life. In Conard's mind, this includes, surprisingly, people like lawyers, who opt for stable professions that don't maximize their wealth-creating potential. He said the only way to persuade these ''art-history majors'' to join the fiercely competitive economic mechanism is to tempt them with extraordinary payoffs.
''It's not like the current payoff is motivating everybody to take risks,'' he said. ''We need twice as many people. When I look around, I see a world of unrealized opportunities for improvements, an abundance of talented people able to take the risks necessary to make improvements but a shortage of people and investors willing to take those risks. That doesn't indicate to me that risk takers, as a whole, are overpaid. Quite the opposite.'' The wealth concentrated at the top should be twice as large, he said. That way, the art-history majors would feel compelled to try to join them.
I first met Conard last fall, around the same period in which I was spending a lot of time in Zuccotti Park, interviewing anti-Wall Street protesters who argued that people like him were destroying our democracy. Most Wall Street leaders ignored the Occupy movement or evaded it, and I was sure Conard would be among the most silent. He had recently been stung by a 1 percent scandal of his own: setting up a company whose sole purpose was to donate $1 million to a political-action committee that supported Romney. He was being cast as the embodiment of the secretive and growing influence that the hyperrich have in our political system. If anybody was going to be shy with a reporter, I figured, it was him.
Over lunch with editors from The Times Magazine, Conard proved the exact opposite. He looks like a benign middle-aged guy until he starts making an argument. At which point, Conard stares into your eyes and talks with intense force, punctuated by the occasional profanity, in full paragraphs. He delighted in arguing over corporate-bond rates and Chinese central-bank policy, among other arcane minutiae. It also became clear that he had exhaustively thought through the role of the superrich in our economy, and he wasn't afraid to share those opinions.
Conard's life serves as the perfect model for his economic philosophy. Born in 1956, he grew up in a middle-class suburb of Detroit, the son of a kindergarten teacher and a Ford engineer. His childhood ambition was to be able to afford his own house in a Detroit suburb, but, he likes to say, he took a series of risks (like forgoing the more secure path of law school) that eventually led him to Harvard Business School. When Conard graduated, in 1982, he entered the burgeoning field of management consulting. He joined the prestigious Boston-based firm Bain & Company, which nine years earlier was founded with a radically different approach from the more traditional New York-based consulting firms. Those firms positioned themselves as grand thinkers, far above the fray of daily business struggles. Bain's approach was to join its clients in the trenches, providing analysis and working with senior management to beat the competition.
In 1990, Conard decided to pursue even greater wealth by quitting Bain to become a manager at the investment bank Wasserstein Perella, in New York. He disliked the job, though, and when his old colleague Mitt Romney took him to lunch in 1992, Conard offered his services to Bain Capital, a division that Romney helped start in order to acquire companies with the goal of improving them itself. When Romney said he couldn't afford to match his Wall Street pay, Conard offered to work for less until Romney decided he had added enough value to deserve a bonus and stock options. His first year did not go terribly well, though Conard eventually identified an ideal takeover target, a company that made pharmaceutical-test instruments. Bain paid less than a half billion for the company. Its value has since risen to more than $7 billion. In 2000, he became the head of the New York office.
Which leads us to what Conard said was his next big risk -- leaving the business world to make his case for a new, decidedly pro-investor way to think about the economy. He seems genuinely certain that his arguments in ''Unintended Consequences'' will persuade a fair number of economists, politicians and thought leaders. I suggested during many of our conversations that being a public intellectual might be tricky when you freely say the sorts of things that Conard often does. During one conversation, he expressed anger over the praise that Warren Buffett has received for pledging billions of his fortune to charity. It was no sacrifice, Conard argued; Buffett still has plenty left over to lead his normal quality of life. By taking billions out of productive investment, he was depriving the middle class of the potential of its 20-to-1 benefits. If anyone was sacrificing, it was those people. ''Quit taking a victory lap,'' he said, referring to Buffett. ''That money was for the middle class.''
There's also the fact that Conard applies a relentless, mathematical logic to nearly everything, even finding a good spouse. He advocates, in utter seriousness, using demographic data to calculate the number of potential mates in your geographic area. Then, he says, you should set aside a bit of time for ''calibration'' -- dating as many people as you can so that you have a sense of what the marriage marketplace is like. Then you enter the selection phase, this time with the goal of picking a permanent mate. The first woman you date who is a better match than the best woman you met during the calibration phase is, therefore, the person you should marry. By statistical probability, she is as good a match as you're going to get. (Conard used this system himself.)
This constant calculation -- even of the incalculable -- can be both fascinating and absurd. The world Conard describes too often feels grim and soulless, one in which art and romance and the nonremunerative satisfactions of a simpler life are invisible. And that, I realized, really is Conard's world. ''God didn't create the universe so that talented people would be happy,'' he said. ''It's not beautiful. It's hard work. It's responsibility and deadlines, working till 11 o'clock at night when you want to watch your baby and be with your wife. It's not serenity and beauty.''
Central to this investor's work ethic is another pillar of his worldview. Unlike Romney, Conard rejects the notion that America has ''some monopoly on hard work or entrepreneurship.'' ''I think it's simple economics,'' he said. ''If the payoff for risk-taking is better, people will take more risks.'' Conard sees the success of the U.S. economy as, in part, the result of a series of historic accidents. Most recently, the coincidence of Roe v. Wade and the late 1970s economic malaise allowed Ronald Reagan to unify social conservatives and free-market advocates and set the country on a pro-investment path for decades. Europeans, he says, made all the wrong decisions. Concern about promoting equality and protecting favored industries have led to onerous work rules, higher taxes and all sorts of social programs that keep them poorer than Americans.
Now we're at a particularly crucial moment, he writes. Technology and global competition have made it more important than ever that the United States remain the world's most productive, risk-taking, success-rewarding society. Obama, Conard says, is ''going to dampen the incentives.'' Even worse, Conard says, ''he's slowing the accumulation of equity'' by fighting income inequality. Only with a pro-investment president, he says, can the American economy reach its full potential.
At its core, Conard's book addresses what is perhaps the most important question in economics, the one Adam Smith set out to answer in ''The Wealth of Nations'': Why do some countries grow so rich and others stay poor? Where you come down on the answer has as much to do with your politics as your economic worldview (two things that can often be the same). Glenn Hubbard, a prominent economist and one of Romney's chief economic advisers, takes his ideas seriously. ''He doesn't have the blinders of a model-based view of the world, which is an advantage and a disadvantage,'' Hubbard told me. Others, like the progressive economist Dean Baker, were less kind. ''I can't say there was much I found compelling,'' he told me. The celebrated New York University economist Nouriel Roubini went out of his way to say that he had ''great intellectual respect for his sharp mind,'' even if he didn't agree on numerous points, especially the benefits of inequality.
Nearly every economist I spoke with said that Conard has too much faith in the market's ability to reward only those who create real value. Conard, for instance, insists that even the dodgiest financial products must have been beneficial or else nobody would have bought them in the first place. If a Wall Street trader or a corporate chief executive is filthy rich, Conard says that the merciless process of economic selection has assured that they have somehow benefited society. Even pro-market Romney supporters take issue with this. ''Ed ought to be more concerned about crony capitalism,'' Hubbard told me.
''Unintended Consequences'' ignores some of the most important economic work of the past few decades, about how power and politics influence economic growth. In technical language, this field is the study of ''rent seeking,'' in which people or companies get rich because of their power, not because of their ideas. This is one of the few fields in economics in which left and right share many influences and ideas -- namely that wealthy individuals and corporations are able to influence politicians and regulators to make seemingly insignificant changes to regulations that benefit themselves. In other words, to rig the game. One classic example is banking. Banks have enormous resources to constantly put explicit or subtle pressure on lawmakers and regulators so that regulation can eventually serve their interests.
Conard's version of the financial crisis ignores much reporting and analysis -- including work I've done with NPR's ''Planet Money'' team -- that shows that some of the nation's largest banks actively manipulated customers and regulators and, sometimes, their own stockholders to profit from dangerous risk. And for many economists, rising inequality can create exactly the wrong outcomes for society over all. Rather than simply serving as an invitation for everybody to engage in potentially beneficial risk-taking, inequality can allow those with wealth to crush new ideas.
I kept raising these questions with Conard, but he repeatedly waved them off. ''I don't want to talk about rent-seeking,'' he told me. ''When you go off to a third-world country, there's a dictator who says, 'I'm giving the telephone franchise to my brother-in-law.' It's pretty hard to do that here.'' I countered that many economists see rent-seeking in the United States as a much more subtle but still destructive process. If some rich people are able to get and stay rich by messing around with the rules, then those art-history majors will feel as if they have no chance to break into a well-connected, well-protected elite.
Perhaps concentrated wealth will inspire a nation of innovative problem-solvers. But if the view of many economists is right -- that it sometimes discourages innovation -- then we should worry. While Conard offers deep and well-argued analyses on almost every issue, on this one he resorted to anecdotes and gut feelings. During his work at Bain, he said, he saw that successful companies had to battle against one another. Nobody was just given a free ride because of their power. ''Was a person, like me, excluded from opportunity?'' he asked rhetorically. ''If so, I wasn't aware!''
I suggested that both could be true. The rich could earn a great deal of wealth through their own hard work, skill and luck. They could also use their subsequent influence to make themselves even richer. One of the great political and economic challenges of our time is figuring out the balance between wealth that benefits society and wealth that distorts. Of course we want to encourage people to take risks and find areas of productive innovation. It's just not in the interest of the United States to allow wealth to skew the political process so that good new ideas are barred.
Are Conard's views the uncensored, impolitic version of the man he hopes will be president? The Romney campaign said they wouldn't comment in any way on ''Unintended Consequences,'' and Conard wouldn't share with me anything about his private conversations with his old friend. Glenn Hubbard said only that at a broad level, Romney and Conard share ''beliefs about innovation and growth and responsible risk-taking.''
Conard and Romney certainly share views on numerous policy matters. Like many Republicans, they promote lower taxes and less regulation for those who achieve financial success. Romney has also said that rising inequality is not a problem and that the attention paid to the issue is ''about envy. I think it's about class warfare.'' The differences between these two men are also striking. Romney's economic platform and his record as the governor of Massachusetts suggest that he is more of a centrist than Conard. Romney wants to eliminate capital-gains taxes for people earning less than $200,000 a year but keep them in place for the 1 percent, which Conard says is a good start but doesn't go far enough.
The biggest difference is that Romney is running for president and needs more people to like him. Conard doesn't have to worry about that. ''People get very angry before they change their mind,'' he said. ''Economics is counterintuitive. It just is.'' I told him that surely is true, but his ideas are counterintuitive even to people well versed in economics. After we spoke for one of the last times, he sent me an e-mail summing up his argument: At base, having a small elite with vast wealth is good for the poor and middle class. ''From my perspective,'' he wrote, ''it's not a close call.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MAT MAITLAND) (MM34-MM35
 MM37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); WRITERS (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (67%); JOB CREATION (57%); HARDCOVER PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Unintended Consequences: Why Everything You've Been Told About the Economy Is Wrong (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



211 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Importing Japan's Forbidden Models

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT

 BODY:
LIKE many young men whose passion is cars, Chris Collins learned early on where to find driving excitement. The tuner-division specials, the spirited models with high-revving engines and extrasensory suspensions -- those were the machines he craved.
While he had owned some of the models most revered by enthusiasts, including soulful examples like the Subaru WRX and the BMW M3, not all the boxes on his wish list were yet checked. He dreamed of owning something exotic -- nothing so readily available as, say, an Aston Martin.
Last year, at age 26, Mr. Collins finally landed that dream car: a 1985 Toyota Corolla.
Not just any Corolla, though. His is a Japanese-market Corolla GTV, a 205-horsepower performance coupe that shares little with the generic front-drive sedans most American buyers associate with Toyota's economy-car nameplate. 
Mr. Collins is among a group of enthusiasts who covet Japanese cars configured just as they would be in a Tokyo showroom. His Corolla -- in its native land, a Sprinter Levin -- is equipped as home-market models were, down to the right-side steering wheel. He estimates there are fewer than two dozen such cars in the United States.
''A GTV is much more rare than having a Maserati, Ferrari or Lamborghini,'' Mr. Collins said. ''I know more people that have those, or Bentleys or Porsches.''
He added: ''I'm the only one that has a GTV.''
Those words neatly summarize the appeal of a class of vehicles that are long on charisma but not always prized for their styling or specifications.
Instead, the cars produced for the Japanese domestic market -- J.D.M. in the lexicon of their fans -- have a following that's based partly on their limited availability and, to some degree, their cultural significance as touchstones of anime classics and the sport of drifting, as well as the popularity of the ''Fast and the Furious'' films.
Owning a J.D.M. car demands commitment -- an earlier burst of exposure waned with tightening enforcement of federal safety and emissions rules -- yet there are rewards. And with the pool of cars eligible to enter the United States legally soon to include some enticing models, the J.D.M. following has the potential to grow.
Some enthusiasts go to great lengths, and often considerable expense, to find cars in Japan to import, even flouting the law to do so. Others take a similar American-market model and transform it into the Japanese equivalent part by part, even if the difference is apparent only to aficionados.
Part of the appeal that motivates these specialists is the allure of horsepower.
''The engine is tuned differently, it has more power and it's easier to upgrade than the U.S. model,'' said Kirk Dunlap, who has owned four J.D.M. cars. He currently drives a special edition 1984 Toyota Sprinter Trueno with a factory ''Panda Car'' paint scheme. The black-and-white livery matches a car from ''Initial D,'' a popular Japanese animated feature and graphic novel in which a young driver becomes a street-racing champion through skills honed as a tofu delivery boy.
Although the Japanese-market engines are often smaller in displacement, they are typically higher revving.
''They are way more aggressive, they put out way more horsepower, they take way more abuse,'' said Paul Scott Jr., the owner of ECS Performance in Windsor Locks, Conn., who has built some half-dozen J.D.M. replicas.
It's not only powertrain differences that collectors pay attention to. When Mr. Scott converted an American-spec 1997 Subaru Legacy into a limited-edition J.D.M. Legacy GTB, he moved the steering wheel and driver controls from the left side to the right. He also installed a thermostat-type climate-control system, a feature not offered in American Legacys until later years.
In this, Mr. Scott sees a hint of conspiracy. ''I personally think they say, 'This is our best stuff, we aren't going to share it,' '' he said.
It may be a bit less sinister than that. Differences in safety and exhaust-emissions standards between the United States and Japan mean that authentic J.D.M. cars can, for instance, use lighter window glass. In addition, the Japanese standards present fewer barriers to automakers wanting to turn out short runs of performance models.
''They are able to do very small batches of cars without having to recertify them the way we do here,'' said Dominick Infante, a spokesman for Subaru of America.
Subaru is a popular marque for J.D.M. conversions, an offshoot of the brand's success in rally racing and the devoted following for its hottest road models. In Japan, Mr. Infante said, factory STI versions of Impreza sedans, Legacy wagons and Forester crossovers have been produced.
While federal regulations create hurdles for enthusiasts who want to import cars that were intended for sale only in Japan, there are workarounds. Regulatory agencies make exceptions for cars over 25 years old, which is why people like Mr. Collins are now able to import mid-1980s cars.
Bringing in the parts to convert American-market cars is less complex, and has given rise to a lively trade in J.D.M. engines and drivetrains. Importing newer cars is more difficult: the importer must be registered with the Transportation Department, must import only approved cars and must modify those cars to meet United States crash and emissions standards.
''It's nearly impossible to do correctly,'' said Sean Morris, who formerly worked for a shop that imported Nissan Skylines, a car popularized in ''The Fast and the Furious.''
So where do people get newer J.D.M. cars?
Some have entered the United States through Canada, and some have come through companies that brought the cars in illegally, often unknown to the buyers. Among the loopholes exploited by unscrupulous dealers: partly dismantled models are shipped to the United States and then reassembled, claiming an exemption for kit cars.
Legitimate J.D.M. cars can be demanding, too.
''The engine I have likes 96 octane -- 91 might even blow up the engine,'' said Edward Poirier, owner of an American-market 1998 Impreza that was modified to the specifications of an STI Type R version.
''You can't have it tuned here, because you can't get into the computers,'' he said, explaining that the Japanese cars use different engine management software than the United States models.
It may be hard to understand the level of devotion when, for the same money as a potentially illegal Nissan Skyline, a buyer could have a new and legal Americanized version, the GT-R.
Hard to understand, that is, until Mr. Collins explains what happens when he pulls into an event with his Panda car.
''If we show up for a car meet, they yell, 'The tofu runner has shown up!' '' he said. ''You can't even get out of the car before you are surrounded,''the throng brushing past Ferraris, Lamborghinis, Bentleys and Porsches to crowd around the immigrant Toyota.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TAKING SIDES: Left, Chris Collins in his Japan-market Toyota. Above, his 2000 Nissan Skyline. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIO VILLAFUERTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LEFTLANE PHOTOGRAPHY)(AU1)
BODY DOUBLE: Kirk Dunlap's 1984 J.D.M. Toyota Sprinter Trueno, right and below, puts the driver on the right side. The ''panda'' paint scheme is modeled on a car in a popular Japanese animated feature. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLASSIC JDM IMPORTS)
 POSITIVE ID: The authenticity of Chris Collins's Corolla GTV as a Japanese Domestic Market model is confirmed by its identification plate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO VILLAFUERTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



212 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2295 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Studying the Humanities

 BODY:
Readers discuss what kind of college education is most valuable.
The Letter
To the Editor:
Re ''The Imperiled Promise of College'' (column, April 29):
While Frank Bruni is certainly right that college is too expensive and that we need more people to study science, math and engineering, I disagree with him about the lack of value of a humanities degree. Perhaps as a history professor at a liberal arts college, I am being defensive. But while a specific degree in communications or accounting may land you a well-paying job sooner, a liberal arts degree better equips students for the ever-changing job market they face.
Many of the jobs today are in fields that hadn't been invented 10 years ago. Most workers today will change not just jobs but careers several times in their lives. What does one need to succeed, even flourish, in such a market? The ability to think creatively, read critically, construct effective arguments using persuasive evidence, write clearly, remain flexible and look at issues with an open mind. These are skills taught best in broad liberal arts settings -- even in majors like philosophy or zoology. 
One can still go on from a liberal arts base to become a teacher, a programmer or any other specialized professional, and probably be more effective thanks to those skills. And a liberal arts degree equips students with skills needed to be active world citizens, something important even for baristas.
So yes, let's find ways to help more students gain access to higher education. But let's not confuse first jobs with satisfying careers, or dumb down nursing, accounting or other fields by assuming that training, rather than education, is the best way to go.
CHERYL GREENBERG Hartford, May 1, 2012
The writer is a history professor at Trinity College.
Readers React
Professor Greenberg does not go far enough in correcting Frank Bruni's dismissal of the humanities. That is because she, no less than he, is focused on equipping students for an ''ever-changing job market'' and ''satisfying careers.''
Everywhere, at every level of the American educational system, students have been cut off -- or have cut themselves off -- from the best that those who have come before them have thought and created. In recent classes at my own university, not one of my undergraduate or graduate students had any idea of who Joseph Haydn was. And only one graduate student, and she of a certain age, had ever heard of Ingmar Bergman.
What the obsession with keeping one's eyes on the prize has led to, I fear, is a certain coldness of heart. A well-regarded study at the University of Michigan found that empathy among students was much lower than 20 or 30 years ago. Is anyone surprised?
In short, the lack of beauty in one's life has consequences: the coarsening of one's sensibility, the shrinking of imagination and the loss of feeling for what might be possible in the world. That is why, at bottom, one studies the humanities.
LESLIE EPSTEIN Brookline, Mass., May 2, 2012
The writer is director of the creative writing program at Boston University.
Ms. Greenberg's response to Frank Bruni's column points up a false dilemma. Few would dispute the need for the ''ability to think creatively, read critically, construct effective arguments'' and so on. There is no conflict between those abilities and the ability to think abstractly in a quantitative manner, to draw meaningful inferences from data, and to understand scientific concepts and methods. To graduate without a basic facility in quantitative subjects is not merely a competitive disadvantage in the labor market -- it is a sign of an incomplete education.
Ms. Greenberg's dismissal of quantitative subjects as ''training'' is a disservice to students who should avail themselves of the opportunity to take mathematics, science (and, yes, engineering) classes in addition to the liberal arts -- not just to enhance their own market value, but also to become well-rounded and educated members of society.
DALE FURROW Houston, May 2, 2012
As an American studies major, I have put my faith (and $40,000 a year) in the hope that the skills developed by my liberal arts education are as valuable as Ms. Greenberg suggests. But colleges need to do a better job preparing students for life after graduation.
I think there is an obvious solution: create a greater role for internships within the liberal arts curriculum. Internships foster vital connections between coursework and career aspirations, giving students exposure to the professional world.
Let's make it easier for students to get credit and funding for these experiences. Let's make internships a requirement for graduation. Let's force the philosophy major to apply her critical thinking skills to something other than an analytic essay.
LOUISE DUFRESNE Poughkeepsie, N.Y., May 2, 2012
The writer is a junior at Vassar College.
I entered college with a calculator in each pocket, dead set on becoming a research mathematician. I was the type of student that everyone agrees we need more of, dripping with the technical skills that make high-end employers salivate. But that was 10 long years ago.
Last month I officially became a lawyer. How could I? Blame my final semester of college, when, almost at random, I enrolled in a constitutional law course to satisfy my last remaining curricular requirements. I fell in love with it instantly and never again dreamed of a life in mathematics.
At its best, a liberal arts education leads students to unfamiliar disciplines and sets them on unexpected paths. Should society complain that the liberal arts converted a desperately needed math whiz into yet another attorney? Perhaps. But I'm not complaining.
ADAM D. CHANDLER Burlington, N.C., May 2, 2012
The writer is a 2006 Rhodes scholar and graduate of Yale Law School.
I die a little each time a fellow professor justifies our enterprise by saying, as Professor Greenberg does, that the liberal arts will help you succeed, ''even flourish,'' in the marketplace. It seems odd to say it's worthwhile to contemplate Thoreau or Jesus or the French Revolution because doing so will positively affect your bottom line.
Indeed, I think it might not be such a bad idea to warn students that exposure to the liberal arts could make them unfit for the kind of work the marketplace values most highly. As if in compensation, however, humanistic learning may also make them indifferent to the kind of success the marketplace has to offer.
THOMAS PEYSER Ashland, Va., May 2, 2012
The writer is a professor of English at Randolph-Macon College.
Some years ago during a routine physical exam, my then-internist, a highly respected partner in a regional clinic, asked me what the history majors at my liberal arts institution did upon graduation. I explained that while a few went on to law or graduate school, most found immediate gainful employment in a wide range of positions in the public, private and nonprofit sectors.
I then asked what his undergraduate major had been at the major research university he had attended. ''Philosophy,'' he answered, to my utter delight.
GREGORY L. KASTER St. Peter, Minn., May 2, 2012
The writer is a professor of history at Gustavus Adolphus College.
As someone who chose to study philosophy at both the undergraduate and graduate level, I had to contend through the years with people's quizzical or even negative reactions. ''What good is a philosophy degree?'' I would be asked.
My response was always the same: It was good training for a world full of complex ideas, opinions and assumptions, all of which drive decision making on large and small scales.
Having worked for decades now, in nonprofit groups, government and philanthropy, I have encountered a good deal of lazy, sloppy thinking, reflected in bad writing and worse practice. Yes, it is enormously helpful to have technical skills in mathematics, computing and other fields, but without the ability to analyze, understand and critique concepts, we just have a muddle of sloppy commentary, slippery ''facts'' and the bad outcomes to which they lead us.
I am amused and amazed by those who think technology will be our savior, that those who can use social media with greatest skill will somehow rule the world. Technology like the Internet is meaningless without the ability to imbue it with meaningful content, and the greater ability to figure out which content has value and why. This ability is honed through the kind of rigorous humanities education I was privileged to receive.
NINA MOGILNIK Great Neck, N.Y., May 2, 2012
We are wrongly regarding education as a purchase rather than an investment. With a purchase, you have a ''product'' to show for your money. With an investment, you get paid back over time.
Perhaps rather than looking at this year's crop of graduates, we should look back from the perspective of 30-, 40- and 50-year-olds who have made a variety of choices. I graduated in 1979 from a liberal arts school during an earlier economic crisis. I ended up working in a bookstore with top graduates from a variety of prestigious universities and liberal arts schools. My bookstore co-workers and I have all gone on to successful professions of their choosing.
If we were measured by the job we held upon graduation, our educations would have been deemed a failure and a waste of money. We must look beyond this moment in time and recognize that very few things pay immediate dividends.
SUE BECKER East Orange, N.J., May 2, 2012
The writer is a computer teacher at a charter school that she co-founded.
We need to ask ourselves: Is a liberal arts degree worth it? Absolutely not. A typical college graduate who majored in the humanities is burdened with tens of thousands of dollars in debt and grim job prospects.
However, that is not to say that the knowledge from these classes is useless. For instance, Steve Jobs's experience in his calligraphy class at Reed College (before dropping out) later propelled him to create the Mac typography.
Rather than listening to lectures, reading textbooks and regurgitating on exams, students should learn by doing -- projects, traveling, volunteering. End this notion of a liberal arts degree. Portfolios should rule.
Imagine if we approached learning through debate and tinkering with ideas by bringing back French salons from the 18th century. Imagine if schools were dynamic social engines and the birthplace of the citizen ideal. Only then can we create ''active world citizens.''
NIKHIL GOYAL Woodbury, N.Y., May 2, 2012
The writer is a high school junior who has written a book about education reform.
I admire the work of Frank Bruni, but like Professor Greenberg, I disagree with him on the value of a liberal arts degree. Moreover, I do so as a scientist who sees the damage done to science by the inadequacies in the liberal education of students majoring in the sciences.
The most glaring result is the inability of the majority of the 200 students in my general biochemistry course to write a coherent paragraph. The inability to write clearly reflects an inability to think clearly. Those of us who do science are storytellers of a kind. We put together stories derived from the facts of experimental or theoretical work. Our ability to persuade and to fascinate others, including the general public, depends on our ability to tell the stories. Literature is as important to that skill as the laboratory.
As Ms. Greenberg points out, students should be educated, not simply trained. We can train a robot or a monkey, but we cannot educate one. Our polity and our economy need educated people, not robots or monkeys who will easily become out of date and who are ready prey for demagogues.
PETER C. KAHN East Brunswick, N.J., May 2, 2012
The writer is a professor of biochemistry at Rutgers University.
The Writer Responds
The letters taken together bring us back to the two main questions about the liberal arts -- what are they, and what are they good for?
As Mr. Furrow correctly reminds us, mathematics and the sciences are as important as literature and the arts, and I would include them broadly in ''the liberal arts.'' The liberal arts offer us ''theories of knowledge,'' to quote from the International Baccalaureate program, that help us understand and even occupy different points of view. They provide both the tools and the space to reflect more deeply on what gives our lives meaning.
And what are they good for? These letters offer many possible answers. Mr. Chandler's liberal arts education helped him discover his calling; Mr. Peyser's led him to challenge the very premise of education as job training.
Briefly, I would say the study of the liberal arts is good for everything and anything, but especially for discovering what you are good for -- or raising questions about what anything is good for. Ideally it leads us to more fulfilling careers and more meaningful lives by making us more informed and thoughtful members of our communities, and, as Mr. Epstein reminds us, more compassionate human beings.
Real world engagement, as Ms. Dufresne and Mr. Goyal advocate, is surely not antithetical to this model. Teaching that incorporates real world experience is an important part of the curriculum at many liberal arts colleges.
Acting in the world challenges us to rethink ideas and conclusions drawn from more academic study. My greatest satisfaction as a teacher is seeing my students act on the beliefs and convictions they have formed through their work with me and my colleagues.
None of this is to deny the importance of specialized training, whether through an apprenticeship or course of study. I am simply arguing that the liberal arts -- humanities, social and natural sciences, arts and mathematics -- help us find what is meaningful to us, and help us pursue it.
CHERYL GREENBERG Hartford, May 3, 2012

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER DANIEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); ZOOLOGY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



213 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: When to Refinance Again

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
THOSE who refinanced their mortgages a year or so ago, when interest rates averaged just below 5 percent for a 30-year fixed-rate loan, may be wondering whether it's time to refinance yet again, now that rates are at least a full percentage point lower.
As of Thursday, according to Freddie Mac's weekly survey, the average rate on a 30-year loan was 3.84 percent, down from 3.88 percent the previous week and 4.71 percent around the same time a year ago. The rate on the 15-year loan averaged 3.07 percent, off from 3.12 percent the previous week and 3.89 percent last year. A Freddie Mac spokesman says the rates are the lowest in the 41-year history of the weekly survey. 
Many homeowners opted to refinance last fall and winter when mortgage rates first dipped below 4 percent, said Guy Cecala, the chief executive of Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication. ''People who jumped at 5 percent also jumped on 4 percent,'' he said.
Mr. Cecala says many borrowers refinancing these days are at least second-timers -- he, for one, did so last fall in order to cut his mortgage interest three-quarters of a percentage point -- but he said he knew of no specific data tracking this trend.
If you're considering refinancing, financial planners suggest you first delve into your financial goals -- specifically, how long you expect to live in your home.
Some homeowners decide it makes more sense to stay with their current mortgage, especially if the savings are small or they plan to move within a year or two. ''There is a hassle to refinancing -- all this paperwork,'' said Sheila Walker Hartwell, a financial planner in Manhattan. One of her clients, she noted, recently decided against refinancing because she was already building equity in her home, which she hoped to use on her next home purchase.
''When you refinance, you're not building equity,'' Ms. Walker Hartwell said. ''You're starting at the beginning'' of the amortization tables.
Amortization schedules work like this: In the first few years, almost all of the payment goes toward interest, so the longer you have the loan, the more is put toward the principal.
''That's very important,'' said Edward Ades, a partner in Universal Mortgage in Brooklyn. He noted, for example, that in the first year of a $300,000 30-year mortgage at 4 percent, a borrower would have paid off 1.76 percent of the balance; in the fifth year, that rises to 2.06 percent.
Those who refinanced in the last year or two don't have to consider amortization tables, but they do need to know their equity position -- and when the refinancing would begin to pay off.
To calculate that, start with a rundown of all the closing costs, then divide the closing costs by the amount you expect to save on each monthly payment. So if closing costs total $5,000, and your monthly savings are $400, it will take you 12.5 months to break even on refinancing.
If it takes you, say, three years to recoup the costs and you hope to move within two years, then refinancing does not make sense, said John J. Vento, a Staten Island financial planner.
Depending on your lender, you probably need to have 20 percent equity, and maybe a little more, if you want to wrap your closing costs into the new mortgage. Those who are underwater -- shorthand for owing more than the home is worth -- may consider the Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, which is now widely available, Mr. Cecala noted.
Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst for Bankrate.com, suggests homeowners start with their current lender, and ask if they can streamline the process. You may be able to avoid a second appraisal and title insurance reports and fees, he said, adding, ''That would save not only time but also money.''
He also suggests that borrowers check out new lenders and consider a shorter loan term, to ''shave years off the payments'' and build equity faster.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



214 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Performance Anxiety

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD. 
A science reporter for The New York Times who has written extensively about nuclear weapons.

 BODY:
''IT'S a boy,'' Edward Teller exulted after the world's first hydrogen bomb exploded in 1952 with a force 1,000 times more powerful than the bomb that destroyed Hiroshima.
From the start, the nuclear era seethed with sexual allusions. Military officers joked about the phallic symbolism of their big missiles and warheads -- and of emasculating the enemy. ''Dr. Strangelove'' mocked the idea with big cigars and an excited man riding into the thermonuclear sunset with a bomb tucked between his legs.
Helen Caldicott, the antinuclear activist, argued in the 1980s that male insecurity accounted for the cold war's perilous spiral of arms. Her book? ''Missile Envy.'' 
Today, the psychosexual lens helps explain why North Korea, in addition to dire poverty and other crippling woes, faces international giggles over its inability to ''get it up'' -- a popular turn of phrase among bloggers and some headline writers.
''Things like this never go away,'' Spencer R. Weart, an atomic historian and director emeritus of the Center for History of Physics at the American Institute of Physics, said in an interview. ''There's little doubt that missiles are phallic symbols. Everybody agrees on that.''
On Friday, April 13, North Korea fired a big rocket on a mission to loft the nation's first satellite into orbit. But it fell back to Earth with a splash.
The flop was the latest in 14 years of fizzles and outright failures in North Korea's efforts to conduct showy tests of its long-range missiles and atom bombs. The blunders have damaged its military image and raised its profile among late-night comedians.
Arms controllers, more comfortable with technical minutiae than erotic imagery, nevertheless concede that North Korea now most likely stews with worries akin to those that can accompany sexual failure.
''It must be incredibly stressful,'' noted Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. He called it ''performance anxiety.''
Analysts say that a flustered North Korea might now be preparing to conduct its third nuclear test, after the rocket failure last month. They point to satellite indications of atomic test preparations. And North Korea resorted to underground blasts after botched rocket launchings in 2006 and 2009.
A psychoanalyst might see the shift from blastoff to blast as a weird kind of substitute gratification. The recent rocket failure came during the impoverished state's biggest holiday in decades -- the centenary of the birth of North Korea's founder, Kim Il-sung. The pressure for a face-saving spectacular is seen as correspondingly large.
A complication is that North Korea's nuclear establishment is facing fundamental changes that could thwart an easy comeback. It is running out of plutonium bomb fuel, and is seen as probably trying to switch to highly enriched uranium.
Atomic analysts differ on the likely makeup of the test device but agree that the country stands at a critical juncture in getting beyond the giggles -- if not the sexual innuendo.
''It was a huge loss of face,'' Mark Fitzpatrick, a senior nonproliferation expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, an arms analysis group in London, said of last month's rocket failure. ''It's almost certain they will double down by proceeding with a third nuclear test.''
The odds of a new explosion rose on April 17 when North Korea scrapped a deal with Washington. In exchange for food, it had agreed to give up the enrichment of uranium and the testing of atom bombs and long-range rockets. Engineers use such tests to fix problems and verify advances, though most atomic states now adhere to a global nuclear test ban.
The big question is whether North Korea, if it moves ahead, will do a better job at shaking the ground locally and making the faraway needles of seismographs twitch.
During the cold war, nuclear foes used underground blasts to try to intimidate one another -- and perhaps to feel more manly. Moscow had a habit of popping bombs on the Fourth of July, including the holiday that marked the American bicentennial.
North Korea fired its first bomb on Oct. 9, 2006. Surprised analysts judged the yield to be less than one kiloton -- or equal to less than 1,000 tons of high explosives. By contrast, the first atomic blast of the United States was more than 20 times as powerful.
James R. Clapper, the director of national intelligence, recently told Congress that federal analysts had judged the explosion to be ''a partial failure.''
North Korea's second blast, on May 25, 2009, he added, ''appeared to be more technically successful.'' Mr. Clapper stopped short of calling it a roaring success. Its yield, after all, was estimated at two kilotons. By contrast, China's second bomb was about 20 times stronger and Dr. Teller's hydrogen bomb about 5 million times more powerful.
Analysts see North Korea's switch to a new fuel as likely because in 2007 it shut down a reactor that made plutonium -- which fueled its first two atomic blasts.
''Why base anything else on plutonium if it's a dead end?'' asked Siegfried S. Hecker, a former director of the Los Alamos weapons lab who has repeatedly visited North Korea.
A move to highly enriched uranium -- or a mixture of the two bomb fuels, known as a composite core -- would let North Korea expand its ways of shaking the earth and perhaps, one day, of mounting warheads atop missiles to intimidate neighbors.
In 1983, President Ronald Reagan sought to reinvigorate the old metaphor by saying his Star Wars initiative would render enemy missiles ''impotent and obsolete.'' Ever since, antimissile salesmen, including some with an eye on North Korea, have engaged in various degrees of threat inflation.
But some military analysts say it's quite possible that North Korea -- instead of mastering the difficult technologies and expanding its nuclear arsenal -- will continue to fail.
Jacques E. C. Hymans, who teaches international relations at the University of Southern California, argues in the current issue of Foreign Affairs that failed states like North Korea are doomed to poor workmanship, technical errors and finger pointing.
''These problems,'' he said, ''cannot be fixed simply by bringing in more imported parts through illicit supply networks.''
The phallic symbolism once centered on success. Nowadays, at least with North Korea, it seems as if it's more about dysfunction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Slim Pickens rode a bomb in ''Dr. Strangelove.'' Imagery doesn't get much more suggestive than that. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA PICTURES, VIA PHOTOFEST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (70%); WRITERS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



215 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: July

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
July 3
THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN Taking it again from the top, Sony cycles back to the origins of the Marvel superhero for another series of films, this time starring Andrew Garfield as the high school misfit who finds he has amazing powers, and uses them to investigate the disappearance of his parents. With Emma Stone, Rhys Ifans, Denis Leary, Campbell Scott, Martin Sheen and Sally Field; Mark Webb directed.
July 5
KATY PERRY: PART OF ME ''My goal is just to make people smile,'' says the pop singer in this 3-D concert film/behind-the-scenes documentary directed by Dan Cutforth and Jane Lipsitz. 
July 6
COLLABORATOR A floundering Broadway playwright (Martin Donovan) returns to his childhood home in search of reassurance, but instead is taken hostage by the right-wing fanatic (David Morse) who lives next door. With Olivia Williams and Katherine Helmond; Mr. Donovan wrote and directed.
CRAZY EYES Lukas Haas as a young man in love with an unconventional woman (Madeline Zima) in a film by Adam Sherman. With Jake Busey and Tania Raymonde.
DO-DECA-PENTATHLON June's busiest actor, Mark Duplass , returns in July as a writer-director, collaborating with his brother, Jay Duplass, on a comedy about two grown brothers who compete in a secret, interpersonal Olympics during a family reunion. With Mark Kelly, Steve Zissis, Jennifer Lafleur and Reid Williams.
THE MAGIC OF BELLE ISLE Morgan Freeman as a novelist with a drinking problem who retreats to the community of the title in search of regeneration. With Virginia Madsen, Fred Willard and Kenan Thompson; Rob Reiner directed.
THE PACT Agnes Bruckner and Caity Lotz are sisters who return to their childhood home when their mother dies. The place appears to be haunted. With Casper Van Dien; Nicholas McCarthy directed.
SAVAGES Taylor Kitsch, Aaron Johnson and Blake Lively as laid-back Southern California marijuana farmers who have to learn a new set of skills when a vicious Mexican drug cartel, led by Salma Hayek and Benicio Del Toro, tries to take over their business. Oliver Stone directed, from the novel by Don Winslow; with John Travolta, Emile Hirsch and Demian Bichir.
July 11
EASY MONEY A social-climbing Swedish business student (Joel Kinnaman) gets involved with drug dealers to support the high-end living to which he would like to become accustomed. Daniel Espinosa directed.
July 13
FAREWELL, MY QUEEN The last days of the French court, as observed by a lady-in-waiting (Lea Seydoux) to Marie Antoinette (Diane Kruger). With Virginie Ledoyen; Benoit Jacquot directed.
ICE AGE: CONTINENTAL DRIFT More fun with the animated prehistoric critters; directed in 3-D by Steve Martino and Michael Thurmeier. With the voices of Ray Romano, John Leguizamo, Denis Leary, Seann William Scott, Josh Peck, Queen Latifah, Jennifer Lopez, Wanda Sykes, Aziz Ansari, Drake, Josh Gad, Alan Tudyk, Nick Frost and Joy Behar.
THE IMPOSTER Bart Layton's documentary tells the story of Frederic Bourdin, a Frenchman who successfully (up to a point) convinced a Texas family that he was their missing son.
RED LIGHTS A blind psychic (Robert De Niro) poses a challenge to a skeptical psychic researcher (Sigourney Weaver) and her assistant (Cillian Murphy). With Toby Jones and Elizabeth Olsen; Rodrigo Cortes (''Buried'') directed.
TED Seth MacFarlane of ''Family Guy'' wrote, directed and provides some vocal talent in this semi-animated film about an adult male (Mark Wahlberg) whose childhood teddy bear comes to life and invades his existence. With Mila Kunis, Giovanni Ribisi and Joel McHale.
THREE STARS Lutz Hachmeister's documentary goes behind the scenes with several celebrity chefs, including Jean-Georges Vongerichten, Yannick Alleno and Olivier Roellinger.
TRISHNA ''Tess of the D'Ubervilles'' transplanted to modern-day India, with Freida Pinto as a humble resort worker seduced by the son (Riz Ahmed) of a real estate mogul. Michael Winterbottom directed.
UNION SQUARE Mira Sorvino and Tammy Blanchard are two estranged sisters who are reunited in downtown Manhattan, where talk turns to their difficult mother (Patti LuPone). Nancy Savoca directed; with Mike Doyle.
July 20
AMERICANO Mathieu Demy, the son of Agnes Varda and Jacques Demy, pays tribute to his family legacy with his first feature, the story of a young Frenchman who returns to his childhood home in Los Angeles to settle his mother's estate. With Geraldine Chaplin, Chiara Mastroianni and Salma Hayek.
THE DARK KNIGHT RISES The director Christopher Nolan finishes off his Batman trilogy with the assistance of Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Anne Hathaway, Tom Hardy, Gary Oldman, Marion Cotillard, Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Morgan Freeman.
QUEEN OF VERSAILLES The owners of the largest house in America cope with changing economic times in a documentary by Lauren Greenfield.
ROBOT & FRANK A futuristic buddy film, about a cantankerous elder (Frank Langella) who forms a deep and lasting friendship with his caretaker robot. Jake Schreier directed; with Susan Sarandon, James Marsden, Liv Tyler, Peter Sarsgaard, Jeremy Sisto and Jeremy Strong.
THE WELL DIGGER'S DAUGHTER A remake of Marcel Pagnol's 1940 film, directed by and starring Daniel Auteuil as a crusty widower in the south of France struggling to raise six daughters, including an alluring 18-year-old (Astrid Berges-Frisbey).
July 25
PLANET OF SNAIL From South Korea, the story of a blind poet who falls in love with a dwarf suffering from a spine disability. Seung-jun Yi directed.
RUBY SPARKS From Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris (''Little Miss Sunshine''), the tale of a blocked novelist (Paul Dano) who imagines a new character so strongly that she (Zoe Kazan) turns up sitting on his couch. With Antonio Banderas, Annette Bening, Steve Coogan, Elliott Gould, Chris Messina and Deborah Ann Woll.
July 27
AI WEIWEI: NEVER SORRY The Chinese artist and dissident, profiled in a documentary by Alison Klayman .
HEROINE Kareena Kapoor as a Bollywood star whose career is on the skids, in a film directed by Madhur Bhandarkar.
KILLER JOE William Friedkin directs an adaptation of the Tracy Letts play about a small-time drug dealer (Emile Hirsch) who hires a hit man (Matthew McConaughey) to murder his mother for her life insurance money. With Gina Gershon, Thomas Haden Church and Juno Temple.
NUIT #1 Two alienated souls meet at a rave and find they have much to talk about in a drama written and directed by Anne Emond. With Catherine de Lean and Dimitri Storoge.
SACRIFICE Chen Kaige (''Farewell My Concubine'') directed this complex tale of power and intergenerational revenge, based on the 13th-century play ''The Orphan of Zhao.'' With Ge You, Wang Xueqi and Huang Xiaoming.
SEARCHING FOR SUGAR MAN Malik Bendjelloul's documentary follows two fans in search for an American rock musician named Rodriguez, who disappeared after his career fizzled in the 1960s, but, thanks to a bootleg recording, became a star in South Africa during the apartheid era.
STEP UP REVOLUTION The fourth film in the ''Step Up'' series of dance films, this time about a rich girl (Kathryn McCormick) who falls in with the leader of a Miami dance crew (Ryan Guzman) called the Mob. Scott Speer directed.
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH Ben Stiller, Vince Vaughn, Jonah Hill and Richard Ayoade as four volunteers who make a startling discovery while patrolling their peaceful suburb: it seems that aliens are taking over their neighbors' bodies. Akiva Schaffer directed; with Rosemarie DeWitt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Tobey Maguire -- oops, Andrew Garfield -- hangs out in ''The Amazing Spider-Man''
Tom Hardy, left, and Christian Bale duet in ''The Dark Knight Rises,'' as do Katy Perry and a friend in ''Katy Perry: Part of Me'' and, from left below, Virginie Ledoyen and Diane Kruger in ''Farewell, My Queen.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAIMIE TRUEBLOOD/COLUMBIA PICTURES
WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 CAROLE BETHUEL/COHEN MEDIA GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); FAMILY (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); POP & ROCK (70%); CANNABIS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); TRACK & FIELD (66%); THEATER (58%); HOSTAGE TAKING (54%); CARTELS (50%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



216 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: On Their Stomachs

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY SNYDER. 
Timothy Snyder is the Housum professor of history at Yale University and the author of ''Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin.'' Most recently he helped Tony Judt to write ''Thinking the Twentieth Century.''

 BODY:
THE TASTE OF WAR
World War II and the Battle for Food
By Lizzie Collingham
Illustrated. 634 pp. The Penguin Press. $36.
Calories were made to be counted, but they have generally been counted for two very different reasons. We associate calories with excess, but for most of its history this little unit of energy was linked to shortage. The years since World War II have been a time of cheap and plentiful food, and of obese and sick citizens. Since our own daily struggle is fought against fat, we fail to see that many of the conflicts of the past were wars against hunger. Just as obesity leads to diabetes and human blindness, so plentiful food leads to decadent forms of history and social blindness. We are fortunate to have a bracing book like ''The Taste of War,'' which does much to correct understanding of the causes of armed conflict and mass murder. 
If World War II were only about bad ideas, as we like to think, then we are all safe. Who among us admires Hitler, Himm/ler or Hirohito? But if the war and its atrocities had to do with material want, we cannot so easily separate ourselves from evil. Lizzie Collingham soberly argues that the expansionist designs of both Nazi Germany and imperial Japan must be understood within a world political economy in which the single crucial commodity was food. The British Empire had dominated a global system of free trade that was disrupted by the Great Depression. States like Germany and Japan, unable to supply themselves with sufficient food for their own citizens from domestic sources, had two choices. They could play the game by the British rules, which could seem humiliating and pointless in the 1930s, or they could try to control more territory.
Collingham, the author of ''Imperial Bodies'' and ''Curry,'' sketches the hunger motive on the body of the Japanese soldier in Asia, who not only starved others but was starved himself. The energetic Japanese attacks remembered with chagrin by British and American soldiers were driven by the need to capture food from the enemy. In the end, more Japanese soldiers died from starvation and associated diseases than in combat.
Nazi Germany planned to control a vast Eastern European empire whose inhabitants would be starved in the tens of millions. It was a rare case of planning more murder in war than actually happened. When the Nazis had to choose whom to starve in an uncertain and long war, they thought racially and picked the Jews. Most of the world's Jews, seen by the Nazis as the source of all ills to Germany, lived in the very territories that were to be colonized. Collingham shows, and here she is in the mainstream of Holocaust historians working beyond the United States, how food shortages were one of the factors that led toward the policy of full / extermination.
Another reason we dismiss the material causes of war is that aggressive wars of colonization tend to fail. The Germans and the Japanese lost the war and returned to home territory and home islands. The Germans had hoped to supply themselves for eternity with grain from the rich black soil of Ukraine; but in fact they got very little. This is because, as Collingham demonstrates, war itself tends to disrupt labor, harvests and markets. Even if the intention of the Germans had not been to cause starvation, invasions tend to do so. Some two million people starved to death in French Indochina. At least 10 million starved in China, whose army was living from the land on its own territory. About three million starved in Bengal in British India. Collingham argues that many of them might have been saved if Churchill had not been annoyed with Gandhi and the Free India movement and inclined to see Indians as racial inferiors.
Collingham's case, in one respect, is even stronger than it seems. Rather than seeing the Soviet Union as an aggressor in the war, which it certainly was in 1939 and 1940, she discusses its fate after it was betrayed by its Nazi ally and invaded in 1941. But larger history confirms her argument. Like Germany and Japan, the Soviet Union too was reacting to an international political economy dominated by Britain. It too wished to create economic self-sufficiency on a continental scale. The solution Stalin advanced was not to seize territory from abroad, but to colonize itself from within. Agriculture was ''collectivized,'' brought under state control. As Collingham notes, millions of people died of malnutrition as a result. They died in what their own leaders called a ''war'' against prosperous farmers, and in a process that Stalin saw as necessary preparation for a general war to come.
The result was control without productivity, which left the Soviet Union vulnerable when it was invaded by Nazi Germany. Communist agriculture survived through a kind of parasitism upon capitalism: Stalin allowed collective farmers to work private plots and middlemen to profit on sales of food. In the end, though, it was American food that ensured the Soviet soldier did not go hungry.
As Collingham rightly notes (if not without some self-indulgent swipes at American culture), the war was a very special moment for American agriculture, offering a perfect conjuncture: demand abroad, stability at home and a technological revolution. Prosperity depended in considerable measure upon a world calamity, but in the United States it was ascribed only to domestic freedom. Thus, Collingham argues, the war did not boost policies of planning and redistribution in America as it did in Europe, and it permitted the false lesson that laissez-faire is always enough. The improvements in technology (pesticides, fertilizers, hybrids) were very real, and spread from the United States to the rest of the world after the war. They were and remain enough to oversupply America and Europe with food. Had this green revolution come 20 years earlier, World War II might have been unthinkable. But will such abundance last forever?
The combination of population growth and prosperity in this century means that we have ever more urban people eating ever more meat, which requires ever more grain, ever more land, ever more efficiency. Climate change and water shortages make soil fertility uncertain. The early 21st century is coming to resemble the early 20th century, with expectations of shortfall influencing ideology and strategy.
The American understanding of World War II arises from the special circumstances that made it, for us, the source of postwar plenty. But how would we behave if we anticipated that we will no longer be able to feed ourselves as we are accustomed? How will Asia look in 30 years, after China's topsoil is eroded and its glaciers have melted? Collingham's book masterfully corrects our understanding of the great conflict that made America what it is, and thus prepares us for the conflicts that are all too likely to come. Its usefulness is hard to overstate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chinese fighters share a basket of rice, 1943. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); STARVATION (89%); HOLOCAUST (78%); HISTORY (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); OBESITY (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (76%); BLINDNESS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); DIABETES (69%); WRITERS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

TITLE: The Taste of War: World War II and the Battle for Food (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



217 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: Renaissance in an Industrial Shadow

BYLINE: By CAROL KINO

 BODY:
BUFFALO
THINK of this city in the 1970s, and the picture that springs to mind is of a dying industrial metropolis. Once called the City of Light because of its abundant hydroelectric power (courtesy of Niagara Falls), Buffalo was a manufacturing and rail hub for much of the 20th century. But by the '70s, as its mills and foundries closed, it was gradually becoming a symbol of urban blight.
During that decade Buffalo also boasted a thriving avant-garde arts scene, rich enough to nurture Pictures-generation artists like Cindy Sherman and Robert Longo, to attract visiting video and film artists like Bill Viola and Stan Brakhage, and to encourage large-scale land art by Martin Puryear, Nancy Holt and others. How and why this scene came about is the subject of the survey show ''Wish You Were Here: The Buffalo Avant-Garde in the 1970s,'' at the Albright-Knox museum here through July 8. 
Organized by Heather Pesanti, a curator at the museum, the show includes seminal artworks made in the area, like Ms. Sherman's early storyboard drama ''A Play of Selves'' (1976), Gordon Matta-Clark's 1974 house deconstruction ''Bingo,'' Hollis Frampton's film ''Gloria!'' and the drawings for ''Box and Pole'' (1977), all that remains of an early sculpture by Mr. Puryear. (It also covers the local literary and music scenes, like the Buffalo Philharmonic, directed at the time by Lukas Foss and then by Michael Tilson Thomas.) Ms. Pesanti dreamed up the idea three years ago, soon after arriving at the museum, when she realized that many important artworks had been made nearby. As she investigated, it became clear, she said, that ''Buffalo had a story that wanted and needed to be told.''
Part of that story has to do with the city's art institutions, from the scrappy artist-run space Hallwalls to the Albright-Knox itself, most of which frequently collaborated on shows and projects. But it also involves some quirks of fate. Despite the depressed economy the 1970s also saw a wealth of grants from the New York State Council on the Arts, Ms. Pesanti said. When the National Endowment for the Arts began offering grants for artist-run spaces in the early '70s, that provided a further boost, aided by the abundance of newly empty industrial real estate.
For the area's artists, it was the perfect combination, said the photographer Ellen Carey, who moved here in 1975 for an M.F.A. at the State University at Buffalo. ''I didn't think of Buffalo as crumbling or falling down,'' she said. ''I just thought it was great. It was rough in the 1930s in Paris too.''
Hallwalls
Charles Clough, ''Eyes 2,'' 1975
Hallwalls, the first multidisciplinary artist-run space in Buffalo, was founded by a group that included Cindy Sherman and Michael Zwack in an ice-packing warehouse where they all had studios. But it was driven by Charles Clough and Robert Longo, a student at Buffalo State. (Mr. Clough's mixed-media work ''Eyes 2,'' above, is an expanded version of the photographs of eyes he glued to walls throughout the building.)
''Hallwalls was a better school than we could buy out there in the education market,'' Mr. Clough said. The concept, he added, was to ''figure out which artists ahead of us we were interested in and bring them in, and those artists got to know who we were, so that when we went to New York, we'd have an audience. And the fact that we were in proximity to the Albright and Artpark and Media Studies meant that we could bait them.''
In late 1974 Mr. Longo approached Robert Irwin, who, to his surprise, offered to visit. ''I basically called everybody and told them to come on over,'' Mr. Longo recalled. ''We talked about what we wanted to do, and he helped push it along.'' Soon after, Mr. Clough mounted a huge works-on-paper show in the hallway (inviting ''anybody who had any sort of avant-garde reputation,'' he said), and Hallwalls was born. After that, Mr. Longo said, ''contacting artists would become our M.O.''
Among the many they lured were Jonathan Borofsky, whom Mr. Longo stalked through SoHo. Mr. Clough bagged Sol LeWitt, who handed over instructions for a piece that the group labored over for one beer- and marijuana-filled evening. ''They had incredible enthusiasm,'' said Vito Acconci, who created an installation there in 1975. ''They seemed so involved that it was impossible not to get swept up.'' (Two years later, when Mr. Longo moved to New York with Ms. Sherman, his girlfriend at the time, Mr. Acconci was so swept up that he hired Mr. Longo as a studio assistant.)
Artpark (Lewiston, N.Y.)
Charles Simonds, Ritual Cairns, 1974
The early '70s was a time of transformation for Lewiston State Park, on 172 acres alongside the Niagara River Gorge, into a cultural oasis. It reopened as Artpark in 1974, its first season dedicated to the memory of the land artist Robert Smithson, offering a vast array of performances and public workshops. Artpark also ran a summer residency program in which artists made projects on site.
That's how Gordon Matta-Clark came to carry out his renowned 1974 house deconstruction, ''Bingo,'' on an abandoned building in Niagara Falls. In 1975 the earth artist Alan Saret built ''Ghosthouse,'' a teepeelike structure of wire mesh, and tried to live there until the freezing weather drove him out. The first artist invited was Charles Simonds, known for building miniature dwellings for an imaginary civilization on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, which he continued in the park. He collaborated with local teenagers to build a stone house and cairns (above) in the ruins of a railway tunnel.
But Artpark had a darker history. Part of it had been used as an industrial waste dump, and when he arrived weeks before the opening, he found construction workers complaining of chemical burns. That's when he realized that ''Artpark was a cosmetic overlay on what could have become another Love Canal,'' he said. (That's why he sited his project further into the gorge.)
Center for Exploratory and Perceptual Arts
Ellen Carey, Light Portrait, 1976
Buffalo's first photography gallery, the Center for Exploratory and Perceptual Arts was founded by the photographer Robert Muffoletto in 1974 -- a time when, according to Ellen Carey, there was virtually ''no platform to show new work and no place to talk about photography.'' It soon became a go-to place for anyone interested in the field (and also offered talks, poetry readings and music performances). Ms. Carey exhibited her work there for the first time, in a group show with Cindy Sherman, then a student at Buffalo State.
The two also showed together in 1976, in the center's first Metro Bus series, which put artists' photographs in the slots on buses normally reserved for advertisements. Ms. Sherman contributed a series of photographs of fictional passengers in which she played each role. Ms. Carey offered a group of experimental portraits, including the self-portrait at left. (She made it by sitting in front of a camera set for a long exposure and drawing in the air with a light pen, a technique borrowed from Man Ray.)
Although Mr. Muffoletto warned them they might lose their work, ''people were very respectful,'' Ms. Carey said. ''I got it all back.''
The Albright-Knox Art Gallery
Steina Vasulka, ''Allvision,'' 1976 (seen in the exhibition ''The Vasulkas,'' 1978)
Although the Albright-Knox had shown new art in the past, the museum made a commitment to it in 1975 by hiring the young curator Linda Cathcart. Formerly an intern at the Whitney Museum of American Art, where she worked with Marcia Tucker (the founder of the New Museum), Ms. Cathcart gave early museum shows to Bruce Nauman, Ed Ruscha (then known mostly on the West Coast), Hannah Wilke, Gilbert & George and the video pioneers Steina and Woody Vasulka. (Ms. Vasulka's robotic video sculpture ''Allvision,'' shown above in the couple's 1978 show, has been refurbished for the exhibition.)
But Ms. Cathcart's most significant move was to collaborate with other Buffalo arts groups, notably Hallwalls, mounting joint shows of artists like Charles Simonds and the sculptor Joel Shapiro. She also changed the museum's annual regional art survey, adding an invitational section that gave many young artists, including Robert Longo and Charles Clough, their first chance to show in a museum. ''We had to make pieces for the show,'' Mr. Longo recalled. ''It was this really incredible breakthrough.'' It was also life changing. In the survey Mr. Longo was discovered by Douglas Crimp, the curator of the 1977 ''Pictures'' show at Artists Space, which made his name in New York.
Center for Media Study, SUNY Buffalo, and Media Study/Buffalo
Paul Sharits, Dream Displacement, 1976
Buffalo's avant-garde began taking shape in the early 1960s, when the private University of Buffalo was absorbed by the State University of New York. Ms. Pesanti said the resulting influx of students came with a surge of government financing, which opened up scores of faculty positions. One went to Gerald O'Grady, a medieval literature specialist who also had a burning interest in media studies, a field then in its infancy.
In 1971 Mr. O'Grady founded Media Study/Buffalo, a nonprofit exhibition space that offered film and video workshops and access to equipment. Two years later he persuaded the university to start its own Center for Media Study, one of the first film and video departments in the country. His first faculty hires were the structuralist film pioneers Hollis Frampton and Paul Sharits. (Mr. Sharits's groundbreaking four-projector film ''Dream Displacement,'' above, was recreated for the exhibition.) Then came Steina and Woody Vasulka, the founders of the Kitchen in New York, and Tony Conrad, the Minimalist musician, experimental filmmaker and video artist.
''I could have been in New York City, but it was almost the same thing to be in Buffalo,'' said Mr. Conrad, who joined the faculty in 1976 and remains there. ''In fact there were things that were better, because of the funding resources, and the animated spirit of the young people in our program and other places in the city.'' Bill Viola, who also visited frequently in the 1970s, agreed. ''Everybody managed to go through Buffalo,'' he said. ''It was kind of the mecca.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES CLOUGH/COLLECTION SALLY & GEORGE HEZEL
ELLEN CAREY/ALBRIGHT-KNOX ART GALLERY, BUFFALO
TOM LOONAN
 ALBRIGHT-KNOX ART GALLERY, BUFFALO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); FILM (75%); SCULPTURE (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); ENDOWMENTS (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



218 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Anybody Want a $1 Million Pillowcase Machine?

BYLINE: By PIETRA RIVOLI. 
Pietra Rivoli is deputy dean of the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University. Adam Davidson wrote this week's cover story.

 BODY:
Inside Republic Textile Equipment's 60,000-square-foot warehouse, industrial-scale knitting equipment stands beside fabric-testing paraphernalia, which is next to printing machines and countless bins of spare parts. All of it, the remnants of factories and businesses gone bust, belongs to Mike Diamond, who has spent the last 50 years making a living in an industry that, for lack of a gentler term, might be called the going-broke business.
On a recent morning, Diamond was leading a tour of his facility for a client named Gamal Omar, who had traveled to York, S.C., from Egypt for, among other things, some discount shopping. Omar owns a fabric-and-apparel-manufacturing business in 10th of Ramadan City, and like virtually everyone in the apparel business, he struggles with competition from Asia. Buying new machinery is out of Omar's budget, but older technologies bring productivity and quality problems. To remain competitive, he needs late-model textile machinery at used-car prices. And so he makes the trip to South Carolina about once each year. 
Diamond, 73, walked Omar around his warehouse, extolling the virtues and histories of various contraptions. Omar looked at an Italian fabric-cutting machine from Main Knitting, a Montreal-based company that was once Canada's largest producer of men's underwear. Then Diamond showed him knitting equipment from a shuttered Vanity Fair lingerie factory. There was dyeing machinery from a shuttered South Carolina facility belonging to Delta Woodside, and a variety of lab equipment that tested everything from yarn strength to colorfastness. After about an hour, they stopped at a dozen or so sewing machines. ''Five hundred dollars each,'' Diamond said. ''I'll throw in the chairs.''
Unlike failed dot-coms or hedge funds, factories don't vanish overnight. In my years studying the textile industry, executives of failed companies almost always told me that they saw the end coming. And that when it came, they needed help. ''Most people don't have a clue how to go broke,'' Diamond told me. ''Going broke is a business. You've got to know your suppliers. You've got to know your customers.''
The going-broke business in the textile industry is clustered around the I-85 corridor, from Gastonia, N.C., to Greenville, S.C. Diamond has three major competitors in the area and dozens of smaller ones, but he's still been able to put five kids through college (''all at the same time,'' he says proudly) and acquire a significant art collection. He competes by staying on top of the constantly shifting manufacturing technologies -- knowing which machines will have a second life somewhere else and which ones he should sell as scrap metal.
These days, he says, 95 percent of the demand is from outside the U.S. I sat with Diamond one morning as he chewed a cigar and leafed through a stack of about 30 printed e-mails -- from Pakistan, China, Indonesia, Bangladesh and India -- and dispensed orders to his assistant about what to do with each request. Sometimes Diamond had the machinery that a customer wanted; other times, he knew where to find it. And there were occasions when he knew that the customers didn't really need what they thought they wanted.
He knows from experience. Diamond joined his father in the going-broke business more than half a century ago. In its early years, Republic was based in New York, in proximity to the Northern textile factories that were closing. Diamond closed his first factory in his early 20s, staying in Shamokin, Pa., for six months to sell off the pieces/ of a plant that made fabric for bras and girdles. In 1972, Republic moved to South Carolina to follow the movement of the textile industry from New England to the Piedmont region. Soon after, Diamond started selling used textile machinery to Gamal Omar's father in Egypt.
For about 50 years, Diamond has supplied used textile machinery to more than 40 countries and played a central part in the gradual movement of textile production from rich countries to poorer ones. Diamond remembers dismantling several yarn-spinning mills in New England and reassembling them in Tito's Yugoslavia. He picked up other American mills, piece by piece, and put them back together in the Philippines, China and India. Even within a single country, textile production gradually shifts to poorer regions -- just as it has in the United States -- usually in search of lower labor costs. It's a good business to be in.
Yet the past several years have been tough. Republic has laid off more than half its employees, and the 30 or so daily inquiries that Diamond now receives from Asia are down from about 100 before the recession. Many of Diamond's overseas customers couldn't get financing when the financial markets seized up. Consumers weren't buying textiles and apparel anyway, so factories like Omar's needed fewer machines. And then businesses everywhere in the apparel chain -- from U.S. retailers to Republic -- were hit by cotton prices that were driven to record levels by freakish weather and by Chinese government policies.
Omar, however, remains optimistic about his business in Egypt. He has a contract to produce logoed sports apparel, and rising labor costs in China have made his prices more competitive. And more orders from U.S. customers meant it was time to upgrade his machinery. We kept losing him as he circled one machine after another, snapping pictures and peppering Diamond with questions. Omar had heard of a newer heat-setting machine that quickly dried and set the dye on Lycra fabric.
''You don't need that,'' Diamond said. ''Doesn't really work.''
''What about warp knitting machines?'' Omar asked.
''I'm sorry, Gamal. Nothing's left in the whole country. China took them all.''
Omar then stopped to admire the Italian cutting machine and a circular knitting machine that could make T-shirts without side seams. Seamless T-shirt technology was a major advance, Diamond explained, because it allows manufacturers to cut most of the labor-intensive sewing from the production process. Omar also stopped to look at a set of five-year-old ''QuickWash'' machines, a technology that can simulate a product's lifetime of laundering in just 30 minutes to test for durability. He might have use for this. A shirt that doesn't hold up in the wash means an unhappy customer, particularly in the more demanding U.S. market.
Omar wasn't in the bed-linen business, but we stopped anyway to admire a massive pillowcase-making machine that, brand-new, sold for more than $1 million. Labor costs have been a significant cause of the demise of certain segments of the U.S. textile industry, and here was a worker-free machine that took in fabric and spit out neatly folded pillowcases at the rate of 15 per minute. Diamond thought he might have a customer for the machine in Pakistan.
We soon lost Omar again and found him taking pictures of the Main Knitting cutting machine. At its peak, the company employed about 1,700 workers, but it struggled against foreign competition for years and finally went broke in 2008. As I watched Omar, I thought back to 1972, when I purchased my first car. It was a beat-up used Fiat, but I was giddy at the promise of a future with wheels. On the school bus I told one of the rich mean girls that I had a car. I knew I'd never catch up with her, but at least I now could be in the race.
''Is your car new?'' the mean girl asked.
''Well,'' I said, ''it's new to me.''
Deep thoughts this week:
1. There's a market for used equipment from shuttered companies.
2. The ''going broke'' business is the fulcrum between the decline of textiles here and their rise in Asia.
3. Technology is always new somewhere.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: If It's Broke . . .: Mike Diamond, shown at Republic Textile in York, S.C., might make money from it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARF ZIMMERMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM26) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER OUMANSKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILE MFG (90%); TEXTILES (90%); FABRICS (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); YARN & THREAD MILLS (89%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); APPAREL MFG (77%); LINGERIE MFG (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MEN'S CLOTHING (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (55%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (55%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (55%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



219 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: The Power Players of New York: Economic Develpment

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Slightly built, soft-spoken and unfailingly courteous, Seth W. Pinsky, 40, seems ill suited to drag New York City's economy back from the brink of financial crisis. But for the past four years, that has been his task as president of the Economic Development Corporation, and the biggest idea he has championed has been to build an engineering school from scratch on some underused city property. 
After the Lehman Brothers investment bank failed in 2008, persuading a world-class university to invest heavily in New York seemed far-fetched. But Mr. Pinsky's persistence resulted in an offer that brought Stanford University, among others, calling, and the city regained some of its luster. Who could turn down the chance to claim Stanford's first degree-granting campus this side of Silicon Valley?
It turned out that Mr. Pinsky could. Not swayed by Stanford's cachet, he and his negotiating team insisted on stiff penalties if the university did not meet its promises in setting up shop on Roosevelt Island. Stanford balked, and now, Cornell University plans to build a $2 billion campus in the same spot. Mr. Pinsky said he was ''100 percent satisfied with where the process ended up.''
In April, he had the bonus of standing beside Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to announce that the city had gotten ''two for one,'' because New York University plans to open an ''urban science'' school in Downtown Brooklyn. PATRICK McGEEHAN

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seth W. Pinsky (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



220 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MONEY ISSUE; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 3775 words

HEADLINE: Supersize

BYLINE: By KEITH O'BRIEN

 BODY:
It was a simple plan. McDonald's would pay to appear at the top of the trends list on Twitter's home page, using the social-media site to drive people to its new commercials highlighting some of the real-life farmers and ranchers who supply McDonald's with its ingredients. Executives at the fast-food company loved the commercials; the word in-house was ''authenticity.''
The spots, which were rolled out in January, transported viewers to down-home places like Warden, Wash., and Astoria, Ill., where gritty men wearing denim knelt in the soil or rode horses while talking about the sacrifices they made for the harvest or the herd and dispensing nuggets of plain-spoken wisdom about their worthy jobs. ''Beef's what we do,'' one supplier said. ''Good potato,'' said another, examining a dirt-encrusted spud destined to end up as an order of French fries. McDonald's wasn't about fast food, the commercials suggested, but real food, born of the earth.
On Twitter that day, everything went well, at least for a while. After clicking on the hashtag #MeetTheFarmers, people were watching the videos online, and Rick Wion, the 39-year-old director of social media for McDonald's U.S.A., was pleased. 
''We got lots of great engagement on that, lots of uptick from it, lots of video views,'' he says. But that afternoon, when Wion moved the conversation to #McDStories, to encourage people to keep talking about the farmers, the promotion quickly began to go sideways. From his eighth-floor cubicle at McDonald's headquarters in Oak Brook, Ill., Wion watched on his laptop -- ''we're watching these things like a hawk,'' he would tell me later -- as other kinds of stories made their way into the Twitter feed, horror stories, real or imagined, justified or not, about the restaurant's food, service, atmosphere, everything. In a matter of minutes, a public relations success had become yet another public relations crisis for the company, which shifted quickly into damage-control mode. A little more than an hour after the ill-fated #McDStories appeared that afternoon, Wion decided he'd seen enough for one day and pulled that hashtag off the Twitter home page.
The episode got what Wion said was an undeserved amount of attention in the traditional and online press. ''It wasn't even in the top 10 things that were talked about that day for our brand,'' he said. People on Twitter, he pointed out, wrote about the Egg McMuffin ''four to five times as much'' as they complained about the company at #McDStories. But the anti-McDonald's Twitter storm wasn't exactly an anomaly either; it reflected a larger and longstanding problem facing the company.
For years, critics have been taking on McDonald's, questioning its practices in an increasingly health-conscious time. The most famous assault on the company's reputation was probably Morgan Spurlock's ''Super Size Me,'' the 2004 Oscar-nominated documentary that suggested a month of eating only McDonald's meals might hasten your death. But that has hardly been the only grenade lobbed in the company's direction.
In the last year alone, nuns in Philadelphia, Seventh-day Adventists in California, doctors in Chicago and activists in Boston have warred with McDonald's over its menu, its marketing, its mission or all of the above. Critics say McDonald's minimizes its role in America's obesity epidemic while continuing to market its food to children through Happy Meals. Some have called for the dismissal of the longtime clown mascot Ronald McDonald. More recently, the presence in McDonald's hamburgers of ''pink slime'' -- beef scraps turned into a paste and treated with an ammonia solution -- became a cause celebre. (McDonald's reported in January that it discontinued using pink slime last summer.) And later this month at this year's annual meeting, activists will get shareholders to vote on a proposal that would require the company to respond to the growing evidence linking fast food to obesity and other diseases, just as they did at last year's meeting.
Now McDonald's is fighting back, quietly launching a major counteroffensive of its own. And it isn't simply trying to keep its current customers happy; it's also hoping to convince McDonald's skeptics that they're wrong.
The company's bottom-line success in recent years has been unmatched by its traditional burger-chain competitors. Wendy's and Burger King have been losing market share, while McDonald's has been growing, according to an analysis by Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based food-service research and consulting firm. Based on 2011 sales data, Technomic estimates that McDonald's owns nearly 17 percent of the limited-service restaurant industry in the United States. That's not only the largest share, according to the analysis, but also nearly as much as the next four restaurants in that category combined -- Subway, Starbucks, Burger King and Wendy's.
Even a sputtering economy hasn't slowed the company down. In 2011, the average free-standing McDonald's restaurant in the United States generated nearly $2.6 million in sales, an increase of roughly 13 percent since 2008. Last year, sales nearly doubled the industry's projected growth rate by growing 4.8 percent over the previous year. And people weren't just buying the McRib, the highly processed pork sandwich whose popularity baffles even some at McDonald's. Sales of the Big Mac, the chain's signature product that was first introduced nationwide in 1968, rose 10 percent last year, helping to push the company's stock price to nearly $100 a share.
Advertising no doubt has something to do with all this success. The company's annual advertising budget has been estimated to exceed $2 billion -- making it ''unmatched in the industry,'' according to BMO Capital Markets, and roughly the size of the gross domestic product of Aruba. That allows McDonald's to reach an audience far larger than the one that saw ''Super Size Me.'' But for McDonald's to keep succeeding, especially in the United States, it can't be satisfied with serving only its core customers.
The goal, according to Neil Golden, the company's chief marketing officer for its American restaurants, is to win over the holdouts. One way to do that is by improving the food itself. Another way is to change how we think about that food. ''The consumer perception of the quality of our food is not where we want it to be,'' Golden told me. ''Listen, we're serving 28 million people every single day; there are a lot of consumers that love what we're serving. But we believe that they would come more frequently. We also believe that there are more people that would want to come -- if they could feel better about the product.''
With their remodeled restaurants, additions to the menu and at least one nontraditional ally -- mom bloggers -- executives are trying to present a greener, more healthful McDonald's. And in some ways the company is indeed changing. For the first time last year, McDonald's sold more pounds of chicken than pounds of beef, a seismic shift that would be like Starbucks selling more tea than coffee. Beverages, thanks to smoothies and espresso drinks, are now a $9 billion annual business for McDonald's in the United States. The restaurants themselves are changing, too, adding Wi-Fi, colorful chairs, tables that wouldn't be out of place in an IKEA catalog and, in some West Coast test markets, flat-screen TVs playing the McDonald's Channel.
The content on the nascent channel is breezy (think Top 10 lists) and anodyne. The objective is ''an agnostic view of the world,'' according to Lee Edmondson, the founder of ChannelPort Communications, the California company building the channel for McDonald's (its only client). In the test markets, at least, this means there will be no jarring images from CNN or Fox News. Instead, every few minutes between short features, the company's catchy jingle -- ba-da-ba-ba-bah -- serenades the dining room as a reminder that all is right and good. ''We don't want to have graphic images up on the television screens,'' says Brad Hunter, the senior director of customer engagement for McDonald's U.S.A. ''We're not in this to keep the news from somebody. But the way that it's shown is important for us and for our brand.'' Even if the new channel does not make it into every one of the country's 14,000 restaurants, the audience, Hunter says, ''is everyone.''
If there is one McDonald's franchise that seems to epitomize everything about the company's recent efforts to win over new customers and strengthen bonds with old ones, it can be found in Riverside, Calif. There are solar panels on the carport, eco-friendly L.E.D. lights in the ceiling panels, totally new decor -- and soaring sales.
''I'm not the smartest, certainly not the prettiest,'' says Candace Spiel, a 58-year-old franchisee. ''There are a whole lot of things I'm not. But I can be persistent. I can work hard. And that's what I was on this project: I was persistent.''
Riverside, population 303,000, sits in the valley of the Santa Ana River, just south of the San Bernardino Mountains and about an hour's drive from Los Angeles to the west and the desert to the east. The community, which is now almost half Hispanic, sprang up around the fruit-growing industry in the late 1800s, and the region still remains something of a citrus hub. Groves of navel oranges dot the arid, brush-covered landscape.
Candace's husband, Tom Spiel, came here to sell hamburgers. A Chicagoan by birth, he fell into a job at McDonald's the really old-fashioned way: in 1962, a family friend introduced him to the company's founder, Ray Kroc, who got the young man a job bagging French fries, then dispatched him to manage restaurants in California and finally awarded him his own franchise in 1966 -- McDonald's store No. 855, in Riverside.
The neighborhood was rough, Spiel recalled earlier this year, blighted with cheap motels. ''The ladies of the night,'' he said, ''would parade up and down the street.'' But his restaurant, which initially had no dining area, was a success. Spiel made a few good hires, including the woman who would later become his wife. Candace started on the job in 1972, and together the couple would come to own nine McDonald's franchises. Given the annual sales generated by the average McDonald's restaurant in the U.S., that's no small operation.
The Spiels have long been pleased, they said, with the sales at their Riverside location. Candace, however, thought the building was tired, with its hard, plastic furniture inside and its glaring, red double-mansard roof outside. By 2007, she wanted to tear the place down and start over. It was a risk many franchisees were unwilling to take at the time. The double-mansard, however kitschy, was considered part of the McDonald's brand, almost as recognizable as the arches themselves. Some franchisees didn't want to part with it; others didn't believe that redesigning or rebuilding -- new buzzwords from corporate headquarters -- would pay off. Even with the company offering to cover a portion of franchisee costs, owner-operators can easily spend hundreds of thousands of dollars. Remodels can cost $600,000, and rebuilds can exceed $1 million, a big request, especially in a recession.
But corporate executives were committed to the idea. At best, the old restaurants felt like a cafeteria, says Steve Norby, McDonald's vice president and general manager of the Southern California region. ''You don't necessarily want to be seen in that environment,'' Norby told me. ''You want to be seen in an environment that replicates the personality you want.''
Candace Spiel shared that sentiment. And she pushed for not just new decor and a new roof but also for solar panels, L.E.D. lights and eco-toilets that used less water per flush. She got final clearance from the company and approval from the city in 2009, clearing the way to build the new restaurant in late 2010. Ideally, she said, she hoped it would increase sales by 12 percent. Instead, the restaurant did 50 percent better in its first week, Spiel told me, and 20 percent better in the first year. ''We were an instant hit, jam-packed inside, people waiting to get inside,'' she said. ''We were, like, the talk of this town.''
A structure by itself can't entirely explain this sort of growth. New menu items like snack wraps, Angus burgers, specialty coffees and smoothies have also helped boost sales in Riverside and elsewhere. The beverages were especially successful last year, with the company reporting 16 percent growth in the McCafe category, thanks in part to popular items like a frozen strawberry lemonade last summer and a peppermint-mocha drink over the winter holidays.
The sales bounce the Spiels have experienced in Riverside has been repeated at other redesigned McDonald's, which are growing in number every day. In recent years, 3,000 McDonald's in the United States have been redesigned, including 900 just last year; another 1,000 or so are slated to be rebuilt or renovated this year. On average, these restaurants experience 6 to 7 percent sales growth over the market's increase, according to McDonald's.
The Spiels' restaurant won recognition as well as more sales. At an event in January, attended by the mayor and nearly 200 others, the U.S. Green Building Council awarded the restaurant LEED gold certification, a top eco-design honor (and something of an irony, given that McDonald's is a major consumer of beef, whose production, critics say, floods the atmosphere with greenhouse gases). It was 64 degrees and sunny. The only glitch was that the clown had yet to show up.
''You're nine minutes late,'' Tom Spiel informed Ronald McDonald when he arrived.
''Nine minutes late?'' the clown replied, smiling and cheerful. ''Oh, goodness.''
Ronald, decked out in a gold tuxedo, a red wig, white face paint and red, floppy shoes (size 29 EEE) with yellow laces, had awakened around 5:30 a.m. that morning and driven about 90 minutes from somewhere near Burbank with his personal assistant, David Roe, to be here for the Spiels. The clown, who declined to break character, talk about the makeup required for his job or give his real name -- ''He is Ronald,'' Roe told me, straight-faced; ''that is his real name'' -- mugged for photographs and then finally found Candace Spiel, wrapping his arms around her in a long embrace.
''It's Ronald!'' Spiel gushed.
''Hi, Candy Spiel,'' the clown replied. ''Congratulations on everything.''
The new buildings have helped burnish McDonald's image. This is change directed at everyone (and customers have reported that the food actually tastes better in a remodeled McDonald's). On a narrower front, meanwhile, the company has also begun courting a specific, important class of customer: mothers. Central to this strategy is one of McDonald's most prominent moms, Jan Fields, the president of McDonald's U.S.A.
Fields, who is 56, assumed leadership over the company's American business nearly three years ago and soon earned the respect of her colleagues for her focused but hands-off leadership style and for her personal story. When she was 23, Fields, a young mother and the wife of a military serviceman stationed in Dayton, Ohio, got a job at McDonald's cooking French fries on the night shift. The work was harder than she expected. The smell of the fries stuck to her, she recalled, and there seemed to be so many rules. ''I went home and cried,'' Fields said, remembering that first night. ''I thought, Boy, I don't even know if I'm going to be able to make it at McDonald's.''
She briefly considered quitting, she said, but thought better of it. And over the course of three decades, she worked her way up. It's a success story that, at McDonald's anyway, isn't all that unusual; countless other executives have what industry analysts like to call ''ketchup in their veins.'' Many started with jobs behind the cash register, often earning minimum wage.
The company seems especially fond of telling Fields's story in public, perhaps because, in person, Fields doesn't come off as some scripted corporate type trying to change negative perceptions of McDonald's but as a chatty soccer mom charming wary customers with a folksiness that appears genuine. As Rick Wion put it, ''Jan is just a plain old nice person.'' But the strategy, Wion added, isn't just about Fields's personality. ''It's about the principles she's bringing to the table,'' he told me, ''and the openness of the conversation.''
Franchisees report that she's accessible. If Candace Spiel has a problem, she says she can e-mail Fields and get a reply. Fields says she even tries to answer McDonald's critics, whose e-mails make it to her in-box from time to time. ''There are some that just would like us not to be in business,'' she told me. ''What can I say?''
Fields has also made herself available to everyday mothers -- especially those who happen to have blogs. The company has been reaching out to them, giving them personal access to Fields and other company V.I.P.'s and essentially trying to influence -- McDonald's would say ''inform,'' critics would say ''spin'' -- the influencers in the blogosphere.
In mid-2010, the company invited 15 bloggers to visit the Oak Brook headquarters, flying them and their families to Chicago, putting them up at a nice hotel and giving them the grand tour: a meeting with Fields, a chance to make McFlurries in the test kitchen, a visit to a nearby Ronald McDonald House and photo sessions for the kids with Ronald. ''There was just a great deal of care taken with my family,'' Loralee Choate, a mother and Utah-based blogger, says of the trip. ''I did not have one expense,'' she adds. ''They even took into consideration that I was two hours away from the airport, so they sent a car to take me. It was very, very gracious of them.''
According to Wion, a creator of the strategy, the premise was simple. ''Bloggers, and specifically mom bloggers, talk a lot about McDonald's,'' he says. ''They're customers. They're going to restaurants.'' And even more important, these women have loyal followings. Why not let them behind the curtain, hope they like what they see and let them tell readers about it? ''We identified them and said: 'These are our key customers. These are key influencers for our brand,' '' Wion says. ''We need to make sure we're working with them.''
In the blogging world, this is called brand work. In exchange for perks like free trips, access to important people and sometimes financial compensation, bloggers are encouraged or even contractually bound to write about a company, says Thales Teixeira, an assistant professor of marketing at Harvard Business School who has studied the trend. Some bloggers, he notes, get paid as much as $20,000 for the work, which by McDonald's ad-campaign standards isn't much money.
The benefits go both ways. Through bloggers, Teixeira says, corporations like McDonald's believe they are reaching an audience that has become wary of slick ad campaigns. ''It's basically an advertisement sometimes but not directly from the company,'' Teixeira says. ''Instead they are receiving it from somebody they trust.''
But giving bloggers new digital cameras or vacuum cleaners in the hope that they might write about the products is somewhat different from what McDonald's is doing. Mothers, after all, are often among those most inclined to consider the healthfulness of the menu at McDonald's. By bringing them in, the company appears to be making a specific play at winning the support of a potentially skeptical demographic. And generally speaking, Teixeira says, this sort of practice is ''blurring the line of P.R., and it's blurring the line of advertising.''
Wion, who joined the company's public relations team two years ago, told me that McDonald's has on occasion paid travel expenses for bloggers attending conferences. But the company, he says, does not pay bloggers for content, require that they write anything specific or edit their posts in any way. The bloggers who came to Oak Brook, for example, were asked to write one post recapping their trip. ''Beyond that,'' Wion says, ''we gave them, and we wanted them to have, free rein.''
The posts that followed -- each accompanied by a disclaimer noting their sponsorship by McDonald's -- were overwhelmingly positive, however. And late last summer, McDonald's was courting the bloggers yet again. The company sent Fields, Wion and Cindy Goody, the company's U.S. senior director of nutrition, to San Diego for the BlogHer conference, an annual meeting that last year attracted 4,100 bloggers, most of whom were women.
About 25 of them were invited to a private luncheon with Fields and other executives. The conversation there focused on the improved nutritional content of Happy Meals. McDonald's had recently announced that it was reducing the size of the French fries and putting apple slices in every meal, changes that took effect nationally in March and that earned praise from even the company's critics.
But Fields took all questions, no matter the topic, listening to the women even if she didn't always agree with their ideas. ''I heard some that probably wouldn't fly with the average person,'' Fields conceded later, recalling one suggestion that McDonald's make broccoli available for kids. ''I'm thinking that just would not work in a Happy Meal,'' Fields told me. ''I don't think it's universal enough yet. But red pepper might be.''
Bridgette Duplantis, one of the bloggers in the room that day, was impressed. When I met with her months later over a wild berry smoothie at a McDonald's near her home in suburban New Orleans, Duplantis admitted that she still has complaints about the fast-food chain. She'd like McDonald's to offer carrot sticks for kids and more healthful, whole-grain buns. And she recognized that it was savvy marketing for the company to hold the luncheon. ''Somebody like me?'' the 37-year-old mother of two said. ''Meeting Jan Fields from McDonald's? When does that ever happen?''
Duplantis said she felt a connection with Fields that day, something personal, mother to mother. ''Now I relate to her,'' Duplantis told me, ''and in turn I relate to McDonald's.'' Which means, more than likely, that the Duplantis family will be seeking out one of its restaurants for its next fast-food outing instead of going somewhere else -- a small victory, perhaps, but one that McDonald's will take and try to replicate. ''I know they have smoothies and they have yogurt and they have other things that my kids would want,'' Duplantis said. ''I really couldn't tell you what Burger King's doing right now,'' she added with a shrug. ''I have no idea.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN LEWIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
FOOD STYLIST: VICTORIA GRANOF) (MM44-MM45
MM46-MM47
 MM48) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RANKINGS (89%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



221 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: The Continuing Problem Of Bank Instability

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Telling Strength From Weakness'' (Fair Game, April 29): 
The problem of bank instability that Gretchen Morgenson describes is essentially the same one that the economist Henry C. Simons summarized in an essay published in 1934, during the Great Depression: ''There is likely to be extreme economic instability under any financial system where the same funds are made to serve at once as investment funds for industry and trade and as the liquid cash reserves of individuals. Our financial structure has been built largely on the illusion that funds can at the same time be both available and invested.''
The solution would be to require 100 percent reserves against deposits payable on demand and to separate the depository functions from the lending/investing functions of commercial banks. But how likely is that when the banks prefer the current unstable, but more profitable, fractional-reserve structure, which allows virtually unlimited lender-of-last-resort backing by the Federal Reserve for their aggressively leveraged banking practices?
John C. Webb
Columbus, Ohio, April 29
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



222 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BEND JOURNAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: An Economic Lifeline of Barley and Hops

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
BEND, Ore. -- When the economic analysts write the final memo on how this Cascadian playground got its buzz back, they might not title it ''How Beer Saved Bend.''
They will probably feel it is important to give appropriate credit to the tech start-ups, the stock market resurgence and the fact that before, during and after the recession, this place never stopped being a beautiful delusion of high desert, vivid skies and ski-perfect peaks. They will probably also note that full recovery was a long way off: unemployment was still in double digits, construction jobs were mostly gone, the real estate rush was not what it had been.
But anyone who cares more about a good story than an authoritatively accurate one will know better than to get knotted up in such nuance. Besides, who can economically analyze anything when one hand is holding a cold one and the other the handlebars? 
''Oh, that's Boneyard! That's Boneyard!'' yelled the big boys on the big bike, all 12 of them. ''Pedal! Pedal! Pedal!''
They were aboard the Cycle Pub, which is just what it sounds like, and if it is possible to slur pedaling, they were doing it. Their destination was Boneyard Brewery, one of the more recent breakthrough breweries in this little city so gloriously deep in the cups that a genuine economic analyst really was prompted to pore over the data.
What it showed was this: While places like Seattle and Denver and Brooklyn and Delaware can claim impressive craft brewing scenes, and a weirdly large number of people nationwide now speak of hop fetishes and beer crushes, Bend is a per capita powerhouse. With 80,000 people surrounded by not much of anything -- with no Interstate, no university, and the closest major city 160 miles away across steep and snowy mountains -- beer has had room to make a difference.
And it has.
''Deschutes County breweries and brew pubs reported 450 jobs in 2010,'' Carolyn B. Eagan, a state economist, wrote last fall. ''That is 15 percent of all of the brewing employment in the state. For a county that had 4 percent (one of every 25 jobs) of the state's total employment that year, one out of seven jobs in Oregon brewing is quite impressive.''
Just four or five years ago, Bend was a New West boomtown, one of the fastest growing municipalities in the United States, luring Californians and others rich with real estate equity to buy relatively inexpensive homes here. Then it all fell apart. The housing market collapsed, employment plummeted. People who had been wealthy enough to live off investments and rental income no longer could.
Beer endured.
''What we did for so long was just take advantage of the land we have,'' Ms. Eagan said in an interview, noting that, although Bend is slowly growing, people are not flocking here the way they once were. ''Well, you can't export land, but you sure can export beer.''
Of course, much of the appeal of beer in Bend is being here to drink it. Eric King, the city manager, said that since last year the city has collected more in hotel taxes than surrounding Deschutes County, where people might stay to ski or bike.
''Now we're sort of seeing this shift of people coming to Bend as an urban environment and coming here specifically for beer,'' Mr. King said.
Gary Fish founded Deschutes Brewery with a single brew pub in 1988, a few booms and busts back. Bend was a struggling timber town, ''a desolate place,'' he recalled.
Over the years, Mr. Fish became increasingly involved with local business leaders, joining and then helping lead Chamber of Commerce and economic development groups. He also fostered what became something of a salon for aspiring brewers, who in turn went on to found breweries of their own.
Bend had become a Black Mountain, a Silicon Valley, a Napa. Spinoff ventures emerged: the Cycle Pub, which has expanded to other cities; an Ale Trail through town; Silipints, a company that makes silicone beer glasses.
''You have to thank Gary Fish for kind of creating that culture,'' said Larry Sidor, a former brew master at Deschutes who left last year to open a brewery of his own this summer, CRUX Fermentation Project. ''It's been kind of a training ground, a spawning ground for the craft movement.''
Purists worry that the culture is being diluted, of course. Some even fear a ''beer bubble.''
''They're trying to make it Beer City, U.S.A.,'' said Rob Leonig, a regular customer stopping at Boneyard on a Friday afternoon. ''There's always other breweries opening up, and I'm worried at some point somebody's going to start making some junk.''
Then Mr. Leonig handed over his growler bottles for a refill.
''But I do love beer,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on May 6 about the impact of craft breweries on the economy of Bend, Ore., erroneously attributed a distinction to that city. Oregon State University has a branch campus in Bend; the city is not without a university.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 10 Barrel Brewing Company, above, is one of the craft beer makers and purveyors that have helped Bend, Ore., weather the hard economic times of late. Above right, a pint of LoveChild IPA from Deschutes Brewery, one of several experimental beers available only at the brewery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BREWERIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); SKIING (71%); POPULATION SIZE (70%)

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEND, OR, USA (93%) OREGON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012



223 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; THE MIRROR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Adding A Little Flicker To Those Lights

BYLINE: By JUDITH NEWMAN

 BODY:
''YOU look so ... glamorous,'' says a fellow mom at my son's Sunday morning soccer game. ''Thank you!'' I reply, slightly puzzled, as I'm wearing no makeup, yoga pants, a puffy jacket and a ''Dog Is My Co-Pilot'' T-shirt.
She stares at me, with a look more concerned than admiring, until I remember. ''Oh, you mean the lashes,'' I say.
''I didn't want to embarrass you,'' she whispers conspiratorially. I cringe a little as I realize my eyelash extensions gave her the impression I'd recently done the walk of shame from someone's apartment and had forgotten to remove the damning evidence. 
Tragically, my days for that walk are behind me, but the extensions had worked: they had given me that tiny jolt of youthful eroticism, even on a dreary Sunday morning.
Later that day, while I was still in soccer mom mufti, a cabdriver about 20 years my junior stopped his cab (even though he was off duty -- score!) and during the ride asked me out for coffee. He said I had beautiful eyes. This kind of thing happens to me approximately never.
For the next few weeks I continued to think of the extensions as my Mrs. Robinson lashes, remembering that Anne Bancroft had lured Dustin Hoffman with her own set of alarming feather dusters.
I had always enjoyed having thick, curly eyelashes. When I was a kid, between the eyelashes and the ringlets, the Shirley Temple moniker got thrown around a lot. My eyes were expressive, I was told, and if eyes are windows to the soul, I always thought my lashes were a pleasant window treatment.
But age had taken its toll, and they had thinned out in the last few years. I thought I could use a bit of time travel on the cheap. And maybe it was my imagination, but I'd noticed that everyone, be it teenagers or grandmas, suddenly seemed to have lashes that would make a llama jealous.
As it turns out, I wasn't hallucinating. In 2010 Women's Wear Daily reported that while most beauty sales had been flat, false-eyelash sales were up about 6.2 percent, to $44 million annually. Lash extenders, prescription and nonprescription, were batting their way into everyone's makeup bags, and there are now eyelash extension emporiums in New York and Los Angeles with names like Wink, Barbi Eyelashes and, inevitably if infelicitously, Eye Do.
At these places, where in addition to the rather dizzying variety of lash lengths and textures that can be yours, you can buy tiny ornaments to affix to the lashes. ''Right now there is so much lash lust,'' said Lindsay Ebbin, the national retail and makeup director for Red Door Spas, which recently added lash extensions to its services. ''With celebrities like Katy Perry, Adele and Kim Kardashian, well, thicker and longer is what everyone wants.''
Hard to argue there. And with the economy still shaky, women are looking for a quick fix that doesn't break the bank, and just like a new lipstick, a $10 pair of false eyelashes or $20 mascara with lengthening fibers woven into the goo (sample name: Illegal Length by Maybelline) give satisfaction.
''Eyelashes are the new breasts,'' said the writer and former call girl Tracy Quan, who blogs about pop culture and sex for The Daily Beast. ''Maybe you can't invest in larger breasts right now,'' Ms. Quan said, but an inexpensive pair of lashes can also give you an instant lift. Presumably so when you tell him, ''Hey, I'm up here,'' he's actually looking up there.
It's hard to deny the heart-melting effect of a pair of long lashes delicately lowered and raised, as everyone from Disney animators to Vladimir Nabokov could tell you. ( ''I composed a madrigal to the soot-black lashes of her pale-gray vacant eyes,'' Nabokov wrote of his Lolita, capturing Humbert Humbert's tenderness and illicit passion in one line.)
Long lashes are innocent and seductive at once; who can forget the tremulous tears on Elizabeth Taylor's lashes in ''National Velvet,'' presaging a lifetime of lash envy? (Taylor was actually a kind of mutant, with a natural double set of lashes.)
On the other hand, in the wrong circumstances, people gifted with long lashes can seem suspect. A woman who bats her long lashes can seem to be flirting -- but the gesture, according to body language experts, also indicates she is about to ask for something. And men? The actor Alan Cumming, who has extraordinary lashes, tells the story of filming ''Emma'' and being accused by his co-star Greta Scacchi of trying to upstage her by wearing falsies. ''I was playing a vicar,'' he said incredulously.
The desire to make eyes more powerful weapons of seduction is hardly new. Kohl was used to darken eyebrows and eyelashes in ancient Egypt (fixatives included honey and crocodile stool); darkening and lengthening lashes involved many products over the years -- ash was popular -- but became closest to what we know now with the development of petroleum jelly in the 19th century.
The idea of actually gluing on eyelashes began with the film director D. W. Griffith who, while making his 1916 masterpiece ''Intolerance,'' decided he wanted his star, Seena Owen, to have lashes that brushed her cheeks each time she blinked. Since that's a bit of a stretch for natural lashes, he enlisted a wigmaker to fashion tiny strips of human hair and affix them to her lids. (The look was bizarre and the movie tanked; but her co-star George Walsh married her, so the lashes must have counted for something.)
It wasn't until 2006 that the Japanese pioneered a more natural-looking method of affixing lashes with very temporary glue, one by one.
Newer still is Latisse, the prescription eyelash lengthener. It came on the market in 2008, after doctors discovered that the active ingredient in a glaucoma drug, bimatoprost, had the startling effect of causing patients to grow long, luxuriant lashes. (Linda Branagan, a health care consultant from San Francisco who was diagnosed with glaucoma last year, said, ''I am pretty happy to have great lashes as a side effect of not going blind.'')
It works well -- in fact, a little too well. Ellen Marmur, an assistant clinical professor of dermatology at Mount Sinai Medical Center, shows patients how to trim the eyelashes while holding them steady with an eyelash curler. ''Otherwise, they get so long they interfere with their glasses.'' (After about a month, you don't have to use Latisse every day; twice a week will suffice.) Even the rather alarming side effect of the drug -- that it can make blue eyes darker -- hasn't deterred clients. ''And by the way, it's not really true,'' Dr. Marmur added, ''though it can make hazel eyes darker, by increasing the number of dark specks of pigment in the midst of the green.''
It did deter me. I have exactly the kind of hazel eyes that were just daring Latisse to mess with them. So I opted instead for the lash extensions. Because I was a little nervous about anyone hovering around my eyes with pointy instruments, I, just as any Kardashian would, paid $500 to Courtney Akai, widely thought to be the diva of eyelash extensions in New York.
''Welcome to my Pink Palace,'' she cried as I walked in, and indeed it was floor-to-ceiling pink. A shrine to Hello Kitty stood in one corner. She patiently discussed types of extensions, colors (pink or green: an option!) and length. I decided to be bold, though not purple-lash bold; just kind of a couple of millimeters longer than I thought I'd be comfortable with. And I was right.
''You have to be a little O.C.D. to do this all day long,'' Ms. Akai said, as she cheerfully and meticulously glued 90 to 130 tiny silk hairs to each of my own lashes. It took about two and a half hours, and she did only the top lashes (she can also do the bottoms). Since I asked for a glue for sensitive eyes, I was told they would probably fall off within two weeks. Yet they're still there three weeks later, making me look like a superannuated Betty Boop.
Next time (if there ever is a next time, because even after an hour of lying motionless like that, I felt the need to join the Rockettes to regain my sanity), I would pick something a bit more natural. I just don't live a big-lash life. It was like walking around with a tiara all the time, while not, in fact, being the queen or Miss America.
Diane Ackerman, the naturalist and author of works like ''A Natural History of the Senses,'' summed up the current craze best for me. ''Eyelashes evolved to keep debris out of our delicate eyes, and long ones do suggest femininity and youth,'' she said. ''But the ones woman are wearing now look more like an accessory than makeup, the equivalent of high-heeled pointy shoes for the eyes.''
And there's something about these eye accessories that may be glam and sexy -- but at a distance. They don't invite intimacy. They're for making statements, not love. ''If you enjoy the tenderness of entwining eyelashes with a loved one until you're not quite sure whose eyelashes are whose,'' Ms. Ackerman said, ''then your own silky strands work best.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. KIMURA/ISTOCKPHOTO.COM)(ST1)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY MOLOSHOK/REUTERS (ADELE)
DISNEY ENTERPRISES (BAMBI)
ASSOCIATED PRESS (ANNE BANCROFT)
 AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (ELIZABETH TAYLOR))(ST2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SOCCER (73%); SALES FIGURES (64%); RETAILERS (64%); RETAIL SALES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (65%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2012



224 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2012 FORD FOCUS ELECTRIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: The Battery-Driven Car Just Got a Lot More Normal

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BERMAN

 BODY:
BERKELEY, Calif.
CRITICS of electric vehicles say they are too expensive and lack sufficient driving range. But I wonder if those gripes would disappear if the E.V.'s on sale weren't so -- let's not mince words -- homely. I adore my all-electric Nissan Leaf, but its wide rear end, bulging headlights and odd proportions evoke a Japanese gizmo aesthetic that doesn't necessarily appeal to mainstream American car buyers.
Enter the handsome 2012 Ford Focus Electric, the first all-electric car from a Detroit automaker in the 21st century. Ford will begin selling the electric version of the new Focus in the next few weeks in California, New York and New Jersey, followed by 19 additional markets in the fall.
The Focus Electric looks nearly identical to the gas version, a small ''Electric'' badge the only clue that internal combustion has been supplanted by swift and silent electric propulsion. Sit in the low-slung, well-conforming seats and you feel oh-so normal. There are no circuit-board motifs, techno start-up sounds, weird shifter knobs or special Eco modes. The driver chooses among standard gear selections: park, reverse, neutral, drive and low. 
E.V.'s are highly regarded for their high torque at zero r.p.m. -- allowing zippy departures from red lights. In my week with the Focus Electric in the San Francisco Bay Area -- the first multiday test of the car by a journalist -- the powertrain felt as if it had been tailored for highway driving, offering rapid bursts of acceleration from 30 to 50 m.p.h., and from 55 to 75, with oomph left in reserve.
That's one of many ways Ford engineers aimed this electric auto at drivers accustomed to the road manners of a gasoline car. ''We wanted the Focus Electric to be a vehicle first, that just happened to be electric,'' said Eric Kuehn, Ford's chief engineer for global electrified programs.
Battery-powered cars are intrinsically quiet, the motor sound falling between a whir and a whisper. But the Focus is deep-space silent, the quietest of the many electric cars I've driven. The engineers told me they used extra insulation and sound damping.
The extra benefit of quieting the 107-kilowatt (143 horsepower) motor is a reduction of all road noise to ultraluxury levels, whether on city streets or while briskly accelerating to the maximum speed of 85 m.p.h. The single-speed transmission provides direct linear velocity, with no hint of cylinders firing or gears waiting to engage. The concomitant high efficiency means that fuel costs just a third as much as filling up the gas-powered Focus, according to fueleconomy.gov. These days that's the equivalent of about $1.30 a gallon.
In my week with the Focus, I was E.V.-incognito. Not once did I receive a curious glance from a pedestrian or fellow roadway denizen. Focus Electric drivers desperately seeking green cred can find a prominent public charging location to plug in. When I juiced up outside a Walgreens in Pleasanton, Calif., 40 miles east of San Francisco, strip-mall shoppers gawked at the charging cord dangling from my Ford.
One woman said, ''I didn't know electric cars existed.'' A father told his son: ''Look. That's the wave of the future.'' If I'd wanted, I could have preached E.V. religion all day to potential acolytes.
Thankfully, I didn't need all day to charge because the Focus Electric uses a 6.6-kilowatt charger capable of replenishing the batteries at twice the rate of a Leaf. This equates to a full recharge from empty to full in a little more than four hours when pulling 240 volts -- adding about 20 miles of driving range in an hour, instead of 10 miles for each hour with the Leaf.
There were three or four trips during my week when I would have been forced to leave the Leaf, with its 3.3-kilowatt charger, at home. But I was able to take the Focus Electric because, for example, an hour-and-a-half charge at the Walgreens allowed me to make the 35-mile return to my home charger. I had lunch while I waited at a fast-food joint nearby. Charging at half the rate would have exceeded the limits of my schedule and my patience.
The Environmental Protection Agency's estimated driving range of 76 miles is spot-on. The farthest I ventured was 83 miles, with the dashboard indicating use of 19 kilowatt-hours from the 23-kilowatt-hour pack. Batteries always keep a kilowatt or two in reserve, so I probably could have pushed the range beyond 90 miles with careful driving.
The Focus once again proved the rule-of-thumb on E.V. efficiency: four miles of driving per kilowatt-hour under favorable conditions, and closer to three when blasting the air-conditioning, running uphill or driving in cold weather.
In terms of understanding range from behind the wheel, I wish Ford had provided a conventional-style analog fuel gauge with a big red needle and hash marks. Instead, the car has a small thermometer-style display of the battery state-of-charge combined with an estimate of the remaining miles. Leaf owners refer to their cars' similar feature as the guess-o-meter, but the Focus's predictions were even more scattershot.
On one trip, when I really needed to know if a low battery was going to carry me the last five miles home, the dashboard's guess at the remaining range shot up wildly to 85 miles and then to a ludicrous 139 miles despite showing only an eighth of the charge remaining. Ford said this was a glitch in my near-production test vehicle that had been fixed in production models.
Ford makes matters worse with other confusing E.V.-related dashboard displays and nomenclature -- not sufficiently explaining terms like battery ''surplus'' and ''budget.'' And rather than show the level of regenerative braking with bars or a meter, long features of hybrids and E.V.'s, the Focus flashes an inscrutable ''braking score'' each time you come to a stop.
Worst of all, blue butterflies appear and flutter when you drive in an eco-friendly manner, a cutesy affectation that made me want to snuff out the flying bugs by pushing the limits of the E.V.'s acceleration.
One innovation where Ford fares better is the blue light circling the fueling door on the left side, where you plug in the car. It shows charging progress at a glance from a distance by illuminating successive sections of what serves as glowing state-of-charge pie chart.
The interface shortcomings -- and twitchy brakes that took a day to get used to -- are forgotten when you mash the accelerator: the aggressive throttle settings tended to provoke a chirp of the low-rolling-resistance tires.
Above 10 m.p.h., the Focus becomes well-planted and controlled by taut steering. Without a gas engine up front, the Focus Electric's weight distribution is close to ideal at 49 percent in front, 51 percent in the rear. (The gasoline car is nose-heavy at 61/39.)
Because of its 650-pound battery pack, the car is relatively heavy, at 3,642 pounds, but the engineers did a good job of adjusting springs and shocks to handle the extra weight in the rear. The car has a substantial but not ponderous feel.
What's less forgivable is the packaging of the batteries. Some are placed where the regular Focus's gas tank would be, but the main pack is under the liftgate, reducing cargo space by 39 percent, to just 14.5 cubic feet. There is room for a few bags of groceries but nothing more. And back seat legroom is tight, as it is in the gas version.
Building an E.V. from the ground up would have allowed designers to put the battery under the cabin, presenting new possibilities for passenger comfort and cargo space. But Ford decided to reduce the risk and cost of making an electric car by building the Electric on the same assembly line as the gasoline Focus; workers install either electric motors or gas engines, and they bolt in either lithium-ion battery packs or gasoline tanks. That gives the company the option of expanding or reducing E.V. volume based on demand.
Nissan, BMW and Tesla would argue that giving up the ability to optimize the vehicle platform -- and integrate all the systems for electric-car efficiency -- is too high a price for the relative ease of development and production in Ford's approach.
In the end, the Focus Electric solves the nerdy-E.V. problem, but it may underscore the biggest current challenge to widespread adoption of electric cars: their cost. The availability of gas and electric versions of the Focus, side by side in showrooms, will invite apples-to-apples cost-benefit comparisons.
The Ford Focus Electric has a base price of $39,995 -- minus a $7,500 federal tax credit and a $2,500 rebate in California. That puts its tab at $30,000, some $7,000 above the upscale Focus Titanium. I can hear the electric naysayers exclaiming ''Aha! You won't make back the savings at the pumps.'' That's despite $4 gasoline, and the Focus Electric's 110 m.p.g. equivalent rating.
But when buying any new car, especially an innovative model of any kind, emotions, aesthetics and externalities eclipse economics. Most owners will recoup at least a few thousand dollars of the premium from much lower fuel and maintenance costs.
Beyond that, what do you get for the extra money? A faster, quieter Focus -- one that eliminates gas station visits, tailpipe emissions or any personal connection to OPEC. Also, one of the sharpest looking American cars on the road.
INSIDE TRACK: An electric car as gentle on the eyes as on the environment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STAR POWER: As handsome as its gasoline-powered siblings, the Ford Focus Electric is identifiable mainly by discreet badges. An hour at a free public 240-volt charging station, below, added enough juice for 20 miles of driving.(AU1)
 RESERVED: The Focus Electric refuels, top, outside a Walgreens drugstore in Pleasanton, Calif. Efficient driving is rewarded with a swarm of digital butterflies on a screen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRADLEY BERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2012



225 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Seat of Power

BYLINE: By BILL CLINTON. 
Bill Clinton was the 42nd president of the United States.

 BODY:
THE PASSAGE OF POWER
The Years of Lyndon Johnson
By Robert A. Caro
Illustrated. 712 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.
''The Passage of Power,'' the fourth installment of Robert Caro's brilliant series on Lyndon Johnson, spans roughly five years, beginning shortly before the 1960 presidential contest, including the Bay of Pigs, the Cuban missile crisis and other seminal events of the Kennedy years, and ending a few months after the awful afternoon in Dallas that elevated L.B.J. to the presidency.
Among the most interesting and important episodes Caro chronicles are those involving the new president's ability to maneuver bills out of legislative committees and onto the floor of the House and Senate for a vote. One of those bills would later become the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
You don't have to be a policy wonk to marvel at the political skill L.B.J. wielded to resuscitate a bill that seemed doomed to never get a vote on the floor of either chamber. Southern Democrats were masters at bottling up legislation they hated, particularly bills expanding civil rights for black Americans. Their skills at obstruction were so admired that the newly sworn-in Johnson was firmly counseled by an ally against using the political capital he'd inherited as a result of the assassination on such a hopeless cause. 
According to Caro, Johnson responded, ''Well, what the hell's the presidency for?''
This is the question every president must ask and answer. For Lyndon Johnson in the final weeks of 1963, the presidency was for two things: passing a civil rights bill with teeth, to replace the much weaker 1957 law he'd helped to pass as Senate majority leader, and launching the War on Poverty. That neither of these causes was in fact hopeless was clear possibly only to him, as few Americans in our history have matched Johnson's knowledge of how to move legislation, and legislators.
It's wonderful to watch Johnson's confidence catch fire and spread to the shellshocked survivors of the Kennedy administration as it dawned on them that the man who was once Master of the Senate would now be a chief executive with more ability to move legislation through the House and Senate than just about any other president in history. Johnson's fire spread outward until it touched the entire country during his first State of the Union address. The words were written by Kennedy's speechwriter Ted Sorensen, but their impact would be felt in the magic L.B.J. worked over the next seven weeks.
Exactly how L.B.J. did it was perfectly captured later by Hubert Humphrey -- the man the president chose as his vote counter for the civil rights bill and his Senate proxy to carve its passage.
Humphrey said Johnson ''knew just how to get to me.''
In sparkling detail, Caro shows the new president's genius for getting to people -- friends, foes and everyone in between -- and how he used it to achieve his goals. We've all seen the iconic photos of L.B.J. leaning into a conversation, poking his thick finger into a confidant's chest or wrapping his long arm around a shoulder. At 6 foot 4, he towered over most men, but even seated Johnson commanded from on high. Caro relates how during a conversation about civil rights, he placed Roy Wilkins and his N.A.A.C.P. entourage on one of the couches in the Oval Office, yet still towered over them as he sat up close in his rocking chair. And he didn't need to be in the same room -- he was great at manipulating, cajoling and even bullying over the phone.
He knew just how to get to you, and he was relentless in doing it.
If you were a partisan, he'd call on your patriotism; if a traditionalist, he'd make his proposal seem to be the Establishment choice. His flattery was minutely detailed, finely tuned and perfectly modulated. So was his bombast -- whatever worked. L.B.J. didn't kiss Sam Rayburn's ring, but his lips did press against his bald head. Harry Byrd received deference and attention. When L.B.J. became president, he finally had the power to match his political skills.
The other remarkable part of this volume covers the tribulation before the triumphs: the lost campaign and the interminable years as vice president, in which L.B.J.'s skills were stymied and his power was negligible. He had little to do, less to say, and no defense against the indignities the Kennedys' inner circle heaped on him. The Master of the Senate may have become its president, but in title only. He might have agreed with his fellow Texan John Nance Garner, F.D.R.'s vice president, who famously described the office as ''not worth a bucket of warm spit.''
Caro paints a vivid picture of L.B.J.'s misery. We can feel Johnson's ambition ebb, and believe with him that his political life was over, as he was shut out of meetings, unwelcome on Air Force One, mistrusted and despised by Robert Kennedy. While in Congress he may not have been universally admired among the Washington elite, and was even mocked by them as a bit of a rube. But he had certainly never been pitied. In the White House, he invented reasons to come to the outskirts of the Oval Office in the mornings, where he was rarely welcome, and made sure his presence was noted by Kennedy's staff. Even if they did not respect him, he wasn't going to let anyone forget him.
Then tragedy changed everything. Within hours of President Kennedy's assassination, Johnson was sworn in as president, without the pomp of an inauguration, but with all the powers of the office. At first he was careful in wielding them. He didn't move into the Oval Office for days, running the executive branch from Room 274 in the Executive Office Building. The family didn't move into the White House residence until Dec. 7. But soon enough, it would become clear that the power Johnson had grasped for his entire life was finally his.
As Caro shows in this and his preceding volumes, power ultimately reveals character. For L.B.J., becoming president freed him to embrace parts of his past that, for political or other reasons, had remained under wraps. Suddenly there was no longer a reason to dissociate himself from the poverty and failure of his childhood. Power released the source of Johnson's humanity.
Last year I was privileged to speak at the funeral of Sargent Shriver -- a man who served L.B.J. but who in many ways was his temperamental opposite. I said then that too many of us spend too much time worrying about advancement or personal gain at the expense of effort. We might fail, but we need to get caught trying. That was Shriver's great virtue. With Johnson's election he actually had the chance to try and to win.
Even as Barry Goldwater was midwifing the antigovernment movement that would grow to such dominance decades later, L.B.J., Shriver and other giants of the civil rights and anti/poverty movements seemed to rise all around me as I was beginning my political involvement. They believed government had an essential part to play in expanding civil rights and reducing poverty and inequality. It soon became clear that hearts needed to be changed, along with laws. Not just Congress, but the American people themselves needed to be got to.
It was hard to do, absent a crisis like the losses of President Kennedy, Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy. By the late 1960s, America's increasing involvement and frustration in Vietnam, the rise of more militant civil rights leaders and riots in many cities, and the end of broad-based economic growth that had indeed ''lifted all boats'' in the early '60s, made it harder and harder to win more converts to the civil rights and anti/poverty causes.
But for a few brief years, Lyndon Johnson, once a fairly conventional Southern Democrat, constrained by his constituents and his overriding hunger for power, rose above his political past and personal limitations, to embrace and promote his boyhood dreams of opportunity and equality for all Americans. After all the years of striving for power, once he had it, he said to the American people, ''I'll let you in on a secret -- I mean to use it.'' And use it he did to pass the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act, the open housing law, the antipoverty legislation, Medicare and Medicaid, Head Start and much more.
He knew what the presidency was for: to get to people -- to members of Congress, often with tricks up his sleeve; to the American people, by wearing his heart on his sleeve.
Even when we parted company over the Vietnam War, I never hated L.B.J. the way many young people of my generation came to. I couldn't. What he did to advance civil rights and equal opportunity was too important. I remain grateful to him. L.B.J. got to me, and after all these years, he still does. With this fascinating and meticulous account of how and why he did it, Robert Caro has once again done America a great service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOV. 22, 1963: The view from President Kennedy's motorcade through Dallas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CCECIL STOUGHTON/THE WHITE HOUSE -- JOHN F. KENNEDY PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY AND MUSEUM, BOSTON)
Lyndon Baines Johnson leaving Parkland Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY L.B.J. LIBRARY)
Johnson is sworn in as president aboard Air Force One. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CECIL STOUGHTON/THE WHITE HOUSE) (BR12)
NOV. 25, 1963: Family members, followed by President Johnson, at Kennedy's funeral. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 JAN. 8, 1964: Johnson's first State of the Union address. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CECIL STOUGHTON/THE WHITE HOUSE -- L.B.J. LIBRARY) (BR13) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); FIRES (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: The Passage of Power: The Years of Lyndon Johnson (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



226 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Condo Dreams In a Mansion Town

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
FOUR years after making her very public decision to downsize from her 56,000-square-foot Manor here to a penthouse condominium, Candy Spelling and her dog, Madison, are still waiting to move in.
And Los Angeles, where the seriously wealthy overwhelmingly prefer living in extravagant estates, is still waiting, it seems, for high-rise condo living to catch on.
Sales have been slow at the Century, the 42-story tower designed by Robert A. M. Stern, where Ms. Spelling, the widow of the producer Aaron Spelling, agreed in 2008 to buy two duplexes and combine them into her latest trophy home. Delays in her closing until 2010 and her extensive construction project have held up her mansion in the sky, which she bid on before the two floors were built.
Only about 30 percent of the 140 apartments at the Century have been sold, though ''we have great momentum this year,'' said Mary Ann Osborn, a vice president for sales of the Related Companies, the building's developer. 
Sales are picking up this year at a few other developments built for the very rich. The Montage in Beverly Hills, which has 20 condo residences sitting atop a luxury hotel, has only six apartments remaining after sales started in November 2008. The 5,761-square-foot penthouse on the eighth floor sold early last year for $13.8 million, or $2,400 a square foot, a record for a condo in Los Angeles, and the most recent closing was this month.
While the idea of living in a condo in a sprawling city like Los Angeles is still tough to imagine for many who prefer more space, the area's growing congestion is slowly shifting tastes, said Paul Habibi, a lecturer in real estate at the Anderson Graduate School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles.
''Each of these communities -- Brentwood, Santa Monica -- is taking on its own all-encompassing integrated feel, where you work, live and play all within these communities,'' Mr. Habibi said.
But that transition is in its early stages, he said. ''I don't think that a lot of Angelenos have bought into high-rise living as being a substitute for owning your own lot and having your own home on that lot,'' Mr. Habibi said. ''There are myriad places where you can get a lot of land and a lot of home on that land, and a lot of people still view that as the American dream and don't want to give that up.''
Many higher-priced condominium buildings are found along the ''Wilshire corridor,'' which developed quickly in the late-1980s boom.
The corridor struggled a bit in the 1990s from a weaker economy. But the Californian, a luxury building that opened in 2005, sold out within a few weeks, a sign of pent-up demand for homes along the corridor, where a new high-end building had not been constructed in about a decade.
The most expensive condos are still a bargain compared with places in Manhattan. Mr. Habibi estimates there are fewer than 1,000 individual condos in Los Angeles selling for north of $1,000 a square foot, clustered in only a half-dozen developments, mostly in Century City and Beverly Hills, and along Ocean Avenue in Santa Monica. One downtown condo development, the Ritz-Carlton Residences at LA Live, which started sales in 2007, has sold about 25 percent of its 224 apartments and is barely cracking the $1,000-a-square-foot level.
Mr. Habibi and others in the industry are betting the high-end condos that have already been built will be sold at healthy prices. They include the Carlyle Residences, by the developer of the Plaza condominiums in New York, and the Beverly West, which sold its first apartment for $5 million in late March, one month after opening for sales. Thirty-four more residences are available, ranging from $1.5 million to $22.4 million.
''A lot of that buyer pool,'' Mr. Habibi said, ''are your foreign buyers and bicoastal people who are looking for a low-maintenance alternative, a very nice place to live when they are in town.'' The real estate downturn seems to have slowed an expected wave of new high-end condo buildings. A half-dozen developments that have won city approval are waiting on the sidelines for the market to firm up, said Jeffrey Hyland, a co-owner of the real estate company Hilton & Hyland in Beverly Hills.
At the Century, in Century City overlooking the Fox movie studios, most of the buyers are owners of Los Angeles estates looking to downsize for more hassle-free living, Ms. Osborn said. Every owner so far has at least two other homes, she said.
Some find it hard to give up their estates. The celebrity chef Nobu Matsuhisa owns an apartment at the Century that he bought furnished, but he still spends most of his time in his Beverly Hills home, Ms. Osborn said.
Many prospective buyers from Los Angeles return 8 to 10 times before deciding to make an offer, Ms. Osborn added. On a recent tour of the Century, I was in the elevator with an elderly couple who live in a 25,000-square-foot home in Bel Air. Ms. Osborn told me later that they were on their 12th visit to the building.
''They are going to write an offer today,'' she said. ''They were going to write one on Tuesday but were too tired and overwhelmed. Now they have got the picture and understand that it is very private and are not giving up a lot. They see that this is like living in a country club.''
The Century is Related's luxury entry in the Los Angeles market, and some of the amenities that made the company's Time Warner Center a premier Manhattan building are available here. There is a screening room with about 20 seats, bars and lounges, a fitness center designed by Equinox (which Related owns), a Pilates studio, outdoor kitchens for entertaining, a large back lawn where residents can walk their dogs, and closets just outside residents' doors where deliveries can be stored.
The building's rounded design means that some bedroom walls are slightly curved, which brokers say has put off some prospective buyers who are confused about how to decorate. And pillars on some terraces block light. But not being along the busy Wilshire corridor makes it a more peaceful place to call home, brokers say.
The building generated buzz two weeks ago by announcing that the West Coast chef David Myers would open a restaurant there late this year.
Ms. Spelling was more decisive than the couple in the elevator in 2008, when she bought the top two floors of the Century based only on blueprints. Living in a condo, she said at the time, ''is no different from a house, maybe even better.''
She agreed to pay $47 million to buy the duplexes, which total about 16,000 square feet, at the time a record purchase price-per-square-foot for a condo in Los Angeles. But the real estate downturn allowed her to close on the condo in 2010 for $35 million. After listing the Manor -- with its bowling alley, gift-wrapping room and master suite of about 7,000 square feet -- for $150 million, she did a two-part show on HGTV called ''Selling Spelling Manor.'' It seemed part marketing and part confessional about her choice to embrace condo living.
Ms. Spelling has proven finicky at every turn. She used Madison, a soft-coated wheaten terrier with her own Web site, to vet real estate agents, said Stephen Goldberg, her former real estate lawyer. (''She would come and stand next to someone and let them pet her for longer,'' he said.) And she has meticulously overseen the construction of the two-floor penthouse, helping to choose ''every stone'' that goes into the residence, he said.
The project is not delayed for any particular reason, he said. ''She just wants it to be perfect.'' Ms. Spelling hopes to move in by the end of the year, her spokeswoman said.
The Manor took a while to sell. Ms. Spelling stayed there until the British heiress Petra Ecclestone closed on her purchase last July for $85 million. Then Ms. Spelling moved to a temporary apartment of about 6,000 square feet, where Madison ''went into depression,'' she told The Huffington Post in December.
It's hard to see that happening to Madison at the Century, where Ms. Spelling will have three generously sized bedrooms, a near-wraparound terrace, a small indoor pool, and an enclosed room where she can grow flowers.
''I promised her a rose garden,'' Mr. Goldberg said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AIM HIGH: Candy Spelling bought a sprawling penthouse at the 42-story Century. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
Candy Spelling in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES FOR ESPY)
 SOMETHING DIFFERENT: At the Montage in Beverly Hills, 20 condos sit atop a luxury hotel. An eighth-floor penthouse sold there early last year for $13.8 million, or $2,400 a square foot, a record for a condo in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



227 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: 9 Swing States, Critical to Presidential Race, Are Mixed Lot

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Jo Craven McGinty and Allison Kopicki contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Since the housing bubble burst, Nevada has been plagued with record foreclosures, the nation's steepest drop in home values and its highest unemployment rate.
Iowa, on the other hand, may have missed out on some of the boom but was spared the worst of the bust: its housing prices have stayed relatively stable, and it now has the fifth-lowest unemployment rate in the country.
Ohio suffered a steeper than average loss of jobs during the recession, but it has since seen its unemployment rate fall below the national average.
All three are among the handful of swing states likely to decide who wins the presidential election -- states in different stages of a slow economic recovery. 
With just over six months until Election Day, an analysis of the emerging electoral map by The New York Times found that the outcome would most likely be determined by how well President Obama and Mitt Romney perform in nine tossup states.
All nine voted for Mr. Obama in 2008, only to see Republicans make big gains since then.
Now, with many of those states transformed economically and politically by the recession, they are perhaps even less predictable than they were in past close elections. The disparity in their circumstances highlights the challenges that both the Obama and the Romney campaigns face in framing arguments that will resonate across the country.
The nine -- Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin -- offer both parties reasons for hope, and concern. It is no coincidence that Mr. Obama chose two of them, Ohio and Virginia, to hold his first official re-election rallies on Saturday.
''This is a make-or-break moment for the middle class,'' Mr. Obama said at Ohio State University in Columbus.
While the performance of the national economy will help shape the mood of the country and set the tone of each campaign, the situation on the ground in each of the nine states could be pivotal as well.
It would be hard to argue that these states are better off now than they were four years ago, given that they have yet to recover the jobs they lost. Often, that makes a compelling argument for a challenger trying to unseat an incumbent.
But political scientists have found that past elections have been more influenced by the changes in the economy in the year or two before the election. And a range of economic data provided by Moody's Analytics shows that all nine states are rebounding and that most now have unemployment rates below the national average. If voters in those states begin to feel the improvement by the fall and the economy does not take a turn for the worse, it could aid the president's efforts to hold on to enough of them to win.
But the length and depth of the recession make it more difficult to model behavior, and the slow recovery could complicate things. Xu Cheng, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics, which uses state economic and political data to predict election results, said his team had altered its model this year to account for ''the grumpy voter effect.''
''The so-called grumpy voter effect is that despite economic improvement in a state, if the economic situation in a state is really too bad, the voters will discount the improvement,'' Mr. Cheng said. The effect could help tilt foreclosure-racked Florida to the Republicans, he added.
As the general election begins in earnest, it is clear that the tossup states are a top priority of both campaigns and that 2012 will include plenty of stops for Philadelphia cheese steaks, Cincinnati chili and Cuban sandwiches in Florida. After Mr. Romney easily won five primaries on April 24, he gave his victory speech in New Hampshire, which held its primary months ago.
The political outlook in the tossup states is far from clear. While they all voted for Mr. Obama in 2008, seven have elected Republican governors since then and all have added significant numbers of Republicans to their legislatures or Congressional delegations. Two states, however, Ohio and Wisconsin, saw Democrats push back strongly after their newly elected Republican governors worked to curb the collective bargaining rights of public worker unions, which could have ramifications in November.
Polls conducted in the past two months have shown Mr. Obama running even or with a slight advantage in several of the tossup states, but they suggest that Mr. Romney has an opening with voters, especially on economic issues. In several of the states, polls found that majorities of those surveyed believed that the nation was still in a recession.
Republicans are also making inroads in voter registration. While Democrats retain enrollment advantages in most of the tossup states that register voters by party, their advantage has shrunk in all of them, state elections data shows. Nevada, which had 100,000 more registered Democrats than Republicans in 2008, now has only 35,000 more.
The Democratic enrollment advantage has also been reduced in Florida and Pennsylvania. Iowa and New Hampshire, where Democrats held the edge in 2008, now both have more registered Republicans. And in Colorado, the only tossup state where registered Republicans outnumbered Democrats in 2008, the Republicans have widened their edge.
In several states, Republicans have recently passed more restrictive election laws, which they say will fight fraud, but which Democrats say will make it harder for some of their key constituencies to vote.
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania passed laws requiring voters to show photo identification. Florida tightened the rules on groups that register voters. Several states have cut back on early voting. But some of the new laws are facing court challenges.
The changing makeup of the states offers opportunities for both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama. The share of white working-class voters has increased in Ohio since 2008, which could benefit Republicans, according to an analysis of census data by William H. Frey of the Brookings Institution. Republicans could also benefit from an increase in the share of votes likely to be cast by older white residents in Colorado, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Other demographic trends are likely to benefit Democrats: minorities make up a greater portion of the electorate in Florida, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia than they did four years ago; and the portion of white college graduates has grown in Colorado, New Hampshire and Wisconsin. The number of voters ages 18 to 29, a group that helped fuel Mr. Obama's victory four years ago, is rising in Colorado, Florida, Iowa and Nevada.
The map of tossup states is likely to change, and it inevitably involves judgment calls. The Times analysis currently considers Michigan to be leaning toward the Democrats, despite recent Republican gains there, in part because the state benefited from the administration's bailout of the auto industry.
North Carolina, on the other hand, is ranked as leaning Republican, despite the fact that the Democrats have chosen to hold their national convention there this summer.
The economic outlook is mixed. A recent analysis by The Financial Times found that job growth in swing states over the past year was slower than in the rest of the country, which could benefit Mr. Romney. Moody's Analytics, on the other hand, said that its forecasting model, which is based in part on assumptions about how the economy will perform in each state, predicts that Mr. Obama will be re-elected.
Christopher H. Achen, a professor of politics at Princeton who has written about the impact of economics on voting, said that if the economy continued to grow at the current pace, Mr. Obama should benefit. A disruption -- caused, say, by the downturn in Europe -- would most likely help Mr. Romney. The question, he said, is which way things go.
''It looks to me,'' he said, ''that it's on the cusp right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama at a rally Saturday at Ohio State University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Mike Schrader at work at the Pella factory in Iowa last December. The state has the fifth lowest jobless rate in the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) MAPS: An Emerging Electoral Map: Nine states that are tossups are likely to determine the outcome of the race between President Obama and Mitt Romney, according to a New York Times analysis of polls, past election results and the political geography.
The state of the race: Current estimate of how each state is leaning.
CHARTS: How tossup states voted in past elections: All of the tossups voted for Barack Obama in 2008, but six of the nine voted Republican in 2004.
Margin of victory
Tossups and the economy: Nevada saw the sharpest drop in home values and has one of the highest jobless rates in the nation, while Iowa missed part of the housing boom but has generally fared better than most states.
Jobless rate
Change in median household income
Change in median home price (Sources: Moody's Analytics
National Association of Realtors
Census Bureau
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



228 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
TRYING TO MOLDA POST-ASSAD SYRIA
While opposition groups in Syria are concentrating mostly on ending the brutish rule of President Bashar al-Assad, they are also positioning themselves for the longer-term question of who will rule in a post-Assad era. Page 8
SLOW BUT STEADY IN FRANCE
The rise of Francois Hollande, the 57-year-old Socialist politician who is slightly favored to win the French presidency on Sunday, is still a surprise to many in the country. Page 12 
GERMAN PARTY FALTERS
Germany's pro-business Free Democrats have failed to reach even the 5 percent threshold for representation in five of the past six state elections. Page 14
AN OLD STRATEGY IN CHINA
In seeking to airbrush the disgraced leader of Chongqing out of public life, party officials in Beijing have dusted off a strategy used during the Cultural Revolution. Page 10
LAST JAPAN REACTOR OFFLINE
Japan's last operating reactor was taken offline as public distrust created by last year's nuclear disaster forced the nation to at least temporarily do without atomic power for the first time in 42 years. PAGE 12
National
LOUISIANA INMATES PERFORM
'THE LIFE OF CHRIST'
''The Life of Christ,'' a nearly four-hour play with a cast of 70, made its debut this weekend in a three-day run at the Louisiana State Penitentiary. Page 18
TASK FOR G.O.P. FRESHMEN
For Representative Bobby Shilling of Illinois and roughly two dozen other Tea Party-backed Republican freshmen who now find themselves in districts where Democrats outnumber Republicans, a re-election campaign is a remarkably tricky task. Page 18
RELYING ON BARLEY AND HOPS
Bend, Ore., formerly a struggling timber town, experienced an economic revival after several craft beer breweries arrived and flourished. With no Interstate, no university and the closest major city 160 miles away across steep and snowy mountains, the town has room for beer to make a difference. PAGE 20
Metropolitan
IDENTIFYING POWER PLAYERS
IN A CITY OF INFLUENCE
The nature of influence and political clout in New York, along with many of the groups and people who hold it, is changing. A special issue of Metropolitan explores the diffusion of power in the city. Page 1
Sports
GUIDRY CAN RELATE
TO ALLURE OF OUTFIELD
Ron Guidry, who twice played in center field at Yankee Stadium, understands why Mariano Rivera has dreamed of playing center field before his certain first-ballot Hall of Fame career was over. On Baseball, Harvey Araton. Page 3
A STUDENT OF RECRUITING
After three years of existence, TheRecruitScoop.com, started by 17-year-old impresario Alex Kline, has established itself as a highly authoritative observer of college basketball recruiting. PAGE 11
RACKING UP STOLEN BASES
Billy Hamilton, a 21-year-old shortstop, has the potential to be one of baseball's great base stealers. Tyler Kepner, Extra Bases. PAGE 2
Obituaries
DAVID BOWMAN, 54
The first two books by the novelist and cultural critic, ''Let the Dog Drive'' and ''Bunny Modern,'' received wide praise in the 1990s for their satirical voice. Page 26
PHOEBE JACOBS, 93
In a behind-the-scenes career in jazz, primarily in publicity, she worked for some of its biggest names: Fitzgerald, Ellington, Sarah Vaughan and Peggy Lee. Page 26
Sunday Business
TROUBLED MORTGAGE UNITTHREATENS ALLY FINANCIAL
Ally Financial, known as GMAC Financial when it was bailed out for $17 billion, could be harmed if its mortgage unit files for bankruptcy as expected. Fair Game, Gretchen Morgenson. Page 1
VOICE OF THE YOUNG JOBLESS
Joblessness among the young remains at crisis levels, and two advocacy groups, Campaign for Young America and Fix Young America, have formed with one specific mission: to help young people find jobs. Page 1
VERNACULAR OF THE INTERNET
Some of the phrases people use to describe their behavior on the Internet -- the ''like'' of Facebook or the abbreviation LOL for laughing out loud -- did not exist just a few years ago. Companies are creating even more words and symbols that are gaining recognition on the Web. Page 3
Automobiles
COVETING THE RAREST
OF JAPANESE IMPORTS
A group of American enthusiasts covet and collect cars produced for the Japanese domestic market, made popular partly by their limited availability and their cultural significance. Page 1
ARTS & LEISURE
YOUNG RAP ARTIST IS BACK FROM HIATUS
Earl Sweatshirt, an intense, talented rapper in Odd Future, returned to Los Angeles in February, perhaps more popular than if he had never left. Sent to Samoa by his mother, he was absent for most of the group's rise to popularity. PAGE 1
WATCHING OPERA IN HD
The Metropolitan Opera's ''Live in HD'' movie theater broadcasts around the country have helped the Met attain dominance in the field, not as a standard to which regional companies can aspire, as in the past, but as a permanent and sometimes intrusive presence. PAGE 1
STICKING WITH THE SCRIPT
In ''The Dictator,'' Sacha Baron Cohen, the most confrontational satirist in contemporary comedy, has to make do without real-life foils and stooges. SUMMER MOVIES, PAGE 2
MAGAZINE
INCOME INEQUALITY'S EFFECT ON THE U.S. ECONOMY
Edward Conrad, a former partner of Mitt Romney at the private equity firm Bain Capital, aggressively argues in his new book that the growing income inequality in the United States is not a sign that the system is rigged. Instead, it is a sign that the economy is working. PAGE 34
SUPERSIZING MCDONALD'S
How McDonald's came back from the brink of a public-relations nightmare to become bigger than ever. In 2011, the average McDonald's restaurant generated nearly $2.6 million in sales, an increase of roughly 13 percent since 2008. PAGE 44
A YEAR'S WORTH OF TUNA FISH
When her husband lost his job and the bank began foreclosing on their house, Cathy Yoder turned her couponing habit into a growing business. Page 58
EDITORIAL
CONGRESS COULD END CLEAN-ENERGY SUBSIDIES
The clean-energy incentives provided by President Obama's 2009 stimulus bill are coming to an end, while other longer-standing subsidies are expiring. Unless Congress acts, clean-energy financing will drop to $11 billion in 2014 from a peak of $44.3 billion in 2009 -- a 75 percent decline.
SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 12
AN IDEA WORTH SAVING
This year will be the first since Richard Nixon's day that neither major presidential candidate will accept public financing. Public financing could still be resuscitated, but first, someone in power has to care about it. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 12
CURLING IN SUMMERTIME
With the season coming up, the Long Island Curling Club recently had an open house at a rink in Bellmore. For amateur curlers, rink time is cheaper in the summer.
SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 12
BACK TO 'GRACELAND'
The documentary ''Under African Skies,'' which opens this week in New York and Los Angeles, will remind many people of what they love about ''Graceland,'' the Paul Simon album whose 25th anniversary the film celebrates. Sunday Observer. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 12
OP-ED
MAUREEN DOWD
A French tea party: Trying to rebrand her far-right party, Marine Le Pen channels Cardinal Richelieu. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 1
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Thanks partly to Anheuser-Busch, alcoholism is an epidemic on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 13
ROSS DOUTHAT
The Obama's campaign's ''Julia'' tells us a great deal about where this president wants to lead us. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 9
FRANK BRUNI
Marsha Ternus is no crusader, but she is a big reason two men or two women can marry in Iowa. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 3
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
An essay contest from The Ethicist stirs a fuss among vegetarians and meat eaters. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (88%); BEER & ALE (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); RELIGION (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); MOUNTAINS (62%); BREWERIES (62%); BASKETBALL (61%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEND, OR, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); CHONGQING, CHINA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



229 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Obama Formally Kicks Off Campaign With Rallies in Ohio and Virginia

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Mark Landler reported from Columbus and Richmond, Va. Michael D. Shear and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- President Obama sought to rekindle the passion of his 2008 victory on Saturday with a pair of huge rallies in battleground states that signaled a new, more politically aggressive phase of the campaign and a sharpened critique of Mitt Romney.
Mr. Obama, speaking to enthusiastic crowds here and in Richmond, Va., said the election offered voters a stark choice between an America ''where everyone gets a fair shot'' and the Republican vision offered by Mr. Romney, which he said was built on a credo of layoffs, outsourcing, tax avoidance and union busting.
Seeking to link Mr. Romney to Congressional Republicans, the president said the presumptive Republican nominee was their candidate and could be relied on to ''rubber-stamp'' their agenda, ''if he gets the chance.''
''Ohio, I tell you what,'' Mr. Obama said, his voice rising, ''we cannot give him that chance.'' The crowd of 14,000 supporters erupted into cheers and chants of ''Four more years!'' 
Hanging above him was a blue-and-white banner with the word ''Forward'' -- a new slogan the president invoked as a reason to re-elect him and as a rebuke of Mr. Romney, who he said would drag the country back to what he called the failed policies that led to the 2008 financial crisis.
''Governor Romney is a patriotic American who has raised a wonderful family,'' Mr. Obama said, before painting the former Massachusetts governor as an out-of-touch plutocrat who he said lectures hard-working Americans on the need to be more productive.
''I don't care about how many ways you try to explain it,'' the president said, mocking a line Mr. Romney once used while campaigning. ''Corporations aren't people. People are people.''
Many of the president's points were familiar, having been grist for remarks at countless fund-raisers. But these rallies -- at Virginia Commonwealth University and Ohio State University -- provided him with his first chance to shrug off the tension between governing and campaigning and plunge into campaign mode.
Appearing without a jacket or tie, his preferred look during his first campaign, Mr. Obama spoke with a combative tone, his voice becoming hoarse toward the end, as he pleaded for support for another four years in office.
As reinforcement, Mr. Obama brought along his wife, Michelle, to introduce him. The first lady, wearing a turquoise dress that almost matched the sea of blue placards, tried to warm up the crowd with a slogan from 2008.
''It sounds like you all are already fired up and ready to go,'' she said to a swell of cheers. ''Let me tell you, I'm pretty fired up and ready to go myself.''
Recounting the story of her father's struggles to put her and her brother through college, Mrs. Obama said her husband was fighting for an America where everybody gets a shot at success.
The atmosphere at both rallies was buoyant and the crowds were sizable, though in Columbus the turnout did not fill the Schottenstein Center's 18,300 seats. David Plouffe, a senior adviser to the president, said he was happy with the crowds at this point noting that they dwarfed those that turned out for Mr. Romney.
At times, the rallies had the feeling of a concert by an aging rock star: a few supporters were wearing faded ''Hope'' and Obama 2008 T-shirts, and cheers went up when the president told people to tell their friends that this campaign was ''still about hope'' and ''still about change.''
The rallies came at the end of a week that showcased some of Mr. Obama's greatest strengths and most acute weaknesses: his national security and counterterrorism credentials -- on display during a surprise visit to Afghanistan on the first anniversary of the raid that killed Osama bin Laden -- and his stewardship of the economy, called into question yet again by Friday's weak employment report.
Mr. Romney did not campaign on Saturday, yielding the spotlight to the president. And Mr. Obama deployed the full trappings of his office, flying in Air Force One and riding in his armored limousine, flags flapping from the fenders.
A Romney spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said in a statement: ''No matter how many lofty campaign speeches President Obama gives, the fact remains that American families are struggling on his watch: to pay their bills, find a job and keep their homes.''
The president drew some of his loudest applause when he spoke of ending the war in Iraq and of the raid that killed Bin Laden. ''By 2014,'' he said, ''the war in Afghanistan will be over.''
He also struck a chord on women's issues. ''We don't need another political fight about ending a woman's right to choose, or getting rid of Planned Parenthood or taking away access to affordable birth control,'' he said to noisy cheers. ''I want women to control their own health choices.''
While Mr. Obama defended other elements of his record, including the health care law that is in legal jeopardy at the Supreme Court, he devoted most of his remarks to trying to define Mr. Romney before Mr. Romney has a chance to define himself to voters. Campaign advisers said the president would hammer at his opponent in coming weeks.
''For the American people, the next few months will be sort of an intense burrowing in on the candidates, though more on Romney than on us, because they know us,'' said David Axelrod, a senior Obama campaign strategist. ''Views will not set, but be hardened over the summer. By the time you get to Labor Day, I don't think you're going to be able to change impressions greatly over the fall.''
In Ohio, digital gizmos lent the rally the techno-dazzle of an Apple product introduction. Attendees could have their pictures taken and posted on a giant screen during the rally. They sent text messages to register for ''Backstage with Barack,'' a drawing to meet the president. There was also a mobile field office, where supporters sampled life as a volunteer in a campaign office.
No amount of show business, however, can replicate the euphoria of 2008, as some in the audience acknowledged. Roshni Patel, 19, from Columbus, said ''the excitement is still high, though maybe not as high as four years ago.'' But she said students credited Mr. Obama with trying to create jobs and fighting to keep interest rates low on student loans. ''That means a lot to me personally,'' she said.
Ms. Patel said she had not really focused much on Mr. Romney, but was inclined to stick with Mr. Obama. ''People really think he's done a lot,'' she said. ''He killed Bin Laden.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama took the stage in Columbus on Saturday after being introduced by his wife. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



230 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: The End of Clean Energy Subsidies?

 BODY:
The federal government has given generously to the clean energy industry over the last few years, funneling billions of dollars in grants, loans and tax breaks to renewable power sources like wind and solar, biofuels and electric vehicles. ''Clean tech'' has been good in return. 
During the recession, it was one of the few sectors to add jobs. Costs of wind turbines and solar cells have fallen over the last five years, electricity from renewables has more than doubled, construction is under way on the country's first new nuclear power plant in decades. And the United States remains an important player in the global clean energy market.
Yet this productive relationship is in peril, mainly because federal funding is about to drop off a cliff and the Republican wrecking crew in the House remains generally hostile to programs that threaten the hegemony of the oil and gas interests. The clean energy incentives provided by President Obama's 2009 stimulus bill are coming to an end, while other longer-standing subsidies are expiring.
If nothing changes, clean energy funding will drop from a peak of $44.3 billion in 2009 to $16 billion this year and $11 billion in 2014 -- a 75 percent decline.
This alarming news is contained in a new report from experts at the Brookings Institution, the World Resources Institute and the Breakthrough Institute. It is a timely effort to attach real numbers to an increasingly politicized debate over energy subsidies. While Mr. Obama is busily defending subsidies, the Republicans have used the costly market failure of one solar panel company, Solyndra, to indict the entire federal effort to encourage nascent technologies.
The Republican assault obscures real successes that simply would not have been possible without government help. Wind power is a case in point. By spurring innovation and growth, a federal production tax credit for wind amounting to 2.2 cents per kilowatt-hour has brought the cost of electricity from wind power to a point where it is broadly competitive with natural gas, sustaining 75,000 jobs in manufacturing, installation and maintenance.
But the tax credit is scheduled to expire at the end of this year, with potentially disastrous results: a 75 percent reduction in new investment and a significant drop in jobs. That is just about what happened the last time the credit was allowed to lapse, at the end of 2003.
This is clearly the wrong time to step away from subsidies. But it may be the right time, the report says, to institute reforms, both to make the programs more effective and to make them more salable to budget hawks. One excellent proposal is to make the subsidies long term (ending the present boom or bust cycles) but rejigger them to reward lower costs and better performance.
The idea is not to prop up clean tech industries forever. It is to get them to a point where they can stand on their own -- an old-fashioned notion that, one would hope, might appeal even to House Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); WIND ENERGY (90%); BIOMASS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (77%); BIOFUELS (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



231 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: An Idea Worth Saving

 BODY:
Public financing of presidential elections, the greatest reform to come out of the post-Watergate era, died this year after a long illness. It was 36 years old, and was drowned by big money and starved by the disdain of politicians who should have known better.
From 1976 until 2008, every major-party presidential candidate took public money for the general election, adhering to spending limits that significantly reduced the influence of money on American elections. Candidates began dropping out of public financing for primaries in 2000, and then in 2008, Barack Obama abandoned the system entirely, preferring to raise more money from small donations, and promising to fix the public program. He has made almost no attempt to fulfill that promise. 
This year will be the first since Richard Nixon's day that neither major candidate will accept public financing. Both Mitt Romney and President Obama plan to raise hundreds of millions of dollars, far more than they could get from the public system.
Public financing could still be resuscitated, but first, someone in power has to care about it. The Republican-led House has voted to kill the system outright. A few House Democrats have proposed a good bill to fix it, but no one in the Senate has picked up the bill. And the two major candidates are too busy grubbing for the unlimited donations that now dominate politics.
The era of ''super PACs'' and secret donors has made public financing more urgent. A system that greatly magnified small donations with high matches would give ordinary citizens a shot at competing with corporations, unions and wealthy donors. It would allow candidates to campaign more instead of constantly begging among the rich. And it would give a challenger a chance to be competitive without the help of a super PAC.
Ronald Reagan could not have challenged President Gerald Ford for the Republican nomination in 1976 without accepting public dollars. The system also made campaigns possible for such diverse candidates as Jimmy Carter (1976), George H. W. Bush (1980), Jesse Jackson (1988) and Pat Buchanan (1992), all of whom had essentially run out of cash against opponents with much more money.
There is nothing conservative or liberal about public financing, which allows any kind of political voice to be heard above a roar of cash -- if lawmakers are willing to spend more. Here are several ways that Congress could revive the system:
Raise the grant The biggest reason candidates are dropping out of the system is that they can raise much more money outside of it. This year, Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama could get $91.2 million each from the Treasury if they participated in the system for the general election, and that is all they could spend. In 2008, Mr. Obama and his party raised about $750 million. He and Mr. Romney both expect to do better than that this year, and that does not include the $200 million or so to be spent by super PACs and other independent groups.
The grant needs to be doubled or tripled. A House bill proposed by two Democrats, David Price and Chris Van Hollen, would give general-election candidates $50 million, plus up to $150 million more based on a 4-to-1 match of donations of $200 or less. There would be no spending limit, but individual donations would be limited to $500. (Currently, for candidates not participating in the system, donations can go up to $2,500 in the primaries and $2,500 in the general election.)
The $200 million in the bill may not be attractive enough to candidates. While it would never equal private fund-raising, a grant of $300 million for each party could allow very competitive campaigns, and might appeal to candidates eager to spend less time raising money.
Increase the primary match Primary candidates now receive a government match of up to $250 for each donation, not nearly enough. None of the candidates this year applied for matching money except for Buddy Roemer, the former Louisiana governor, because they would have had to adhere to strict spending limits in return. The Democratic bill would eliminate the spending limits and provide a 4-to-1 match for donations of $200 or less, up to $100 million instead of the current $45 million. It would also start matching money six months before the first primary or caucus, instead of making candidates wait for Jan. 1 as they do now.
Mr. Obama's campaign is justly proud of its many small donations, but so far this year, a third of the $350 million he and the party have raised has been collected by bundlers, usually wealthy friends who collect cash from their friends to raise their influence. Higher matches for small donors mean less influence for bundlers.
Eliminate the checkoff Around 7 percent of taxpayers now check the box on their tax returns allowing money to be used for the presidential system, even though polls show far more people support it. That limits the amount the government can spend to make the system more robust. The checkoff was part of the political compromise that created the system, but taxpayers are not asked if they support wars or farm subsidies, and a program this vital should be no different.
Asking people to support a program like this every April 15, when they are most annoyed at the government, was never a good idea. With the economy still struggling and deficits still high, giving even more money to politicians may be a hard sell to taxpayers. But it is actually a small price to pay to preserve a democracy in which ordinary citizens are not shouted down by those who have bigger bank accounts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); JESSE JACKSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



232 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Many G.O.P. Freshmen Who Stormed the House Find It Harder to Stay Seated

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
MOLINE, Ill. -- Representative Bobby Schilling's face was twisted with tension. Another official event, another group of Democrats who craved to see him wiped from the Congressional map. Plus, he would have to smile.
''I've got butterflies,'' Mr. Schilling, Republican of Illinois, said as he walked into a news conference about a bridge that has needed renovation for years, one that Democrats have accused him of abandoning by backing a Republican ban on setting aside federal money for such home-state projects.
''If Durbin is here,'' he said, referring to Senator Richard J. Durbin, the state's senior senator, ''I'll give it right back.''
He looked around and saw that Mr. Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate and a man unafraid of a partisan confrontation, was absent. ''Whew,'' he said. ''Makes things smoother.'' 
During his 2010 campaign, Mr. Schilling, a pizza parlor owner and political novice, labored to persuade people that a Republican deserved a chance in a seat that Democrats had held for almost three decades. Now, like scores of other Republican freshmen across the country who triumphed that year in a Republican wave, he must prove he should be permitted to stay.
For Mr. Schilling and roughly two dozen other Tea Party-backed Republican freshmen who now find themselves in districts where there are more registered Democrats than Republicans, a re-election campaign is a remarkably tricky task.
They are the subject of constant attack ads, assailing them for votes on a budget that would change the Medicare system, accusing them of trying to curtail protections for women and criticizing their support for earmark bans that could impede local projects. But they are also scrutinized by conservative activists who were crucial to their election and want to make sure they do not stray too far from Tea Party orthodoxy in pursuit of a second term.
Republican freshmen like Chip Cravaack of Minnesota, Robert Dold of Illinois and Ann Marie Buerkle of New York are among those eager to prove that they are more than flukes who rode in on a wave only to paddle back out to the sea of one-termers.
It is one thing to run as an outsider taking aim at Washington dysfunction; when you are the incumbent, with Congressional license plates and a voting record for all to see, it is a whole new ballgame.
''Here's the problem,'' Mr. Schilling said. Colleagues in highly Republican districts ''put up bills that make them look tough back home,'' he said, ''and that makes for tough votes.''
He recalled another freshman lawmaker, from a safe district in Indiana, who criticized him for ''voting like a Democrat.'' ''I said, 'I've got to vote my district, thank you very much!' '' said Mr. Schilling, who punctuates most of his sentences with a blinding smile, a hearty laugh and ''Oh, my goodness!''
Nice try, local Democrats say. ''He is out of step with the district,'' said Steve Brown, a spokesman for the Democratic Party of Illinois. ''I don't know what he puts forth to voters that would make them retain him.'' Mr. Brown said Mr. Schilling's challenger, Cheri Bustos, a onetime alderwoman from East Moline and former baby sitter to Mr. Durbin's children, would return the district to the Democrats.
In recent months, in part to curry favor with crucial independent voters who wish for more comity in Congress, some freshmen in closely contested districts have worked to be more bipartisan. They have spoken out against their party's bill for long-term transportation funding and voted for measures that they had originally campaigned against.
''When it came to the debt ceiling vote, I once said, 'Oh, I'd never do one of those,' '' Mr. Schilling said. ''But when you came down to the reality of what would happen if we didn't, and I talked to local businesses about that,'' the need to vote yes became clear, he said.
At a series of public stops on Monday, he bragged repeatedly about his work with Representative Dave Loebsack, Democrat of Iowa, to pester Illinois for money to fix the aforementioned bridge, which links their states and districts.
But Mr. Schilling and other Republicans, perhaps believing that their message will be embraced by swing voters worried about the budget deficit, still dish out plenty of tough talk against Democratic lawmakers and President Obama.
''They are very anti-capitalist,'' Mr. Schilling told a dozen female Republican volunteers, who call themselves the Old Glories because all are over 70, during a recess trip home. Responding to one woman who asked whether he thought Mr. Obama had campaigned in 2008 with a strategy ''to make America fail,'' Mr. Schilling said of the slow economic recovery, ''A lot of people think this is being done on purpose.''
But even among conservative groups on Monday, the word ''tea'' never escaped Mr. Schilling's lips, not even as a drink. (He starts his days with a concoction involving three shots of espresso. He calls it ''the warrior.'')
''I still have a good relationship with those folks,'' he said, but in recent weeks he has had at least as many meetings with union officials as with Tea Party groups around his state.
Mr. Schilling is also trying to rebuild his party in this part of western Illinois, where Republicans have historically had trouble winning elections. When he showed up in 2010 at Republican county offices, he was told, ''Thanks for filling the ballot,'' said Christie Schilling, his wife.
On Monday morning, the Old Glories stared with awe at their first success story in decades. They sang ''God Bless America'' accompanied by live piano (''What a way to start the day!'' Mr. Schilling said), served up some very fine coffee cake and talked socialism, yard signs and taxes.
Mr. Schilling the outsider has also become more of an insider. He replaced his inexperienced chief of staff, whom he had thought would be refreshing, with a seasoned Hill expert, realizing, he said, ''that you need people who know people up there.'' He sends out a slew of mailings, which he had knocked the incumbent Democrat for doing back in 2010.
Democrats are using every tool in their box to attack Mr. Schilling, as they have since the day he stepped in, and he is prepared. Knowing he would face the ''war on women'' accusation that Democrats have turned on his party, Mr. Schilling enlisted his wife, who spent most of the 2010 campaign caring for the youngest of their 10 children, to campaign with him.
She never left his side Monday. ''I love being able to brag about his accomplishments,'' Mrs. Schilling said. She has had several coffee meetings with local women to deconstruct the fight over access to contraception. ''Calling it a woman's issue turns women into sex objects,'' she said.
Mr. Schilling knows his battle will be fierce. ''But you're talking to a guy who sided his entire house with a ladder,'' he said. ''By himself!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Bobby Schilling, the first Republican elected to his Illinois seat in nearly three decades, met with a group of party volunteers known as the Old Glories, including Mary Jane Nelson of Hampton, in Moline last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MEDICARE (75%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%)

PERSON: BOBBY SCHILLING (90%); RICHARD DURBIN (78%); CHIP CRAVAACK (58%); ROBERT DOLD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



233 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2654 words

HEADLINE: A Powerful Combination

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
''Are you twelve?''
A plump middle-aged woman in a flower-print dress was standing in front of Chris Hughes at The Paris Review's spring gala at Cipriani 42nd Street on April 3, mocking his youth. Mr. Hughes, a founder of Facebook who bought a majority stake in The New Republic the previous month and then appointed himself publisher and editor in chief, had earlier given a toast in which he joked about buying a copy of the Review in college because he thought it was about Paris.
The evening was his debut in New York's clubby literary society. Robert Silvers, the longtime editor of The New York Review of Books being honored that night, offered Mr. Hughes a warm hello. Ken Auletta, an author and New Yorker writer, nodded approvingly as he passed Mr. Hughes on the way out.
The woman in the dress, though, like many others in the crowd, didn't seem particularly reverential. 
''Twelve times two plus four!'' Mr. Hughes, 28, replied cheerily. Despite his blond, good-looking boyishness, he had as much if not more confidence as any pinstripe-suited aging editor drinking Bellinis at Cipriani that night, and why not? His resume includes not just Facebook, which he left in 2007 with a fortune estimated by Forbes at $700 million, but his stewardship of online organizing for President Obama's 2008 presidential campaign. It wasn't the first time someone would question whether Mr. Hughes was old enough to take on an ambitious enterprise, and he knew it wouldn't be the last.
Since moving to New York in 2009, Mr. Hughes and his even younger fiance, Sean Eldridge, 25, an investor and political activist, have emerged as a significant force in political circles, becoming enthusiastic fund-raisers for the progressive issues they support, which include gay civil rights.
They own a 4,000-square-foot sparsely furnished loft with 12-foot ceilings on Crosby Street in SoHo, where they have held several events in the last year for, among others, New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the latter attended by Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader.
''In a short period of time, Sean and Chris have had a big impact on the political life of New York,'' said Richard Socarides, a Democratic political strategist and former White House aide during the Clinton administration. ''They are very generous with their money and time. They are young, rich, smart and good-looking. It's a pretty powerful combination.''
Now, after buying The New Republic from its embattled longtime editor, Martin Peretz, Mr. Hughes has an opportunity not only to influence public attitudes and foster awareness of everything from education reform to economic inequality, but to become a player in old as well as new media. That is, if he wants to.
ON a cloudy Sunday in March, Mr. Hughes and Mr. Eldridge were relaxing at their estate in Garrison, N.Y., a quiet, countrified enclave 50 miles from the city where Jacob Weisberg, a former New Republic editor who runs the Slate Group, also has a house, as does Roger Ailes. The couple acquired 80 acres in 2011 for an estimated $5 million, after buying the SoHo loft for $5 million a year before. While they enjoy city life, Mr. Eldridge said, Garrison is where ''we put down roots, where we want to have a family''; the community reminded him of Toledo, Ohio, he said, where he grew up playing outside and visiting neighbors unfettered.
Their property includes a former farmhouse built in the 1800s that was inhabited a century later by Vanderbilt Webb, a descendant of the industrialist Cornelius Vanderbilt, who held lavish society parties there with his wife, Aileen Osborn Webb, a patron of the arts. They enjoy hiking in the Catskills, an hour away.
Mr. Eldridge opened the front door of the house to greet their guest, as Lucy, the couple's 6-month-old Rhodesian Ridgeback, bounded down the bluestone walkway. Mr. Eldridge, the taller of the two men, wore a snug sweater that revealed a body toned by weights and daily runs in the hills behind his house. He flashed a polite smile that faded as he turned to go indoors. Mr. Hughes, who earlier that day had spoken on a panel at the local library about the future of books, seemed more at ease, sweetly grinning as he offered a guest a glass of Pellegrino and a brief tour.
The estate, among a grove of trees and manicured fields, consists of a 5,000-square-foot main house with eight fireplaces. (There is a separate 2,800-square-foot guesthouse where Mr. Eldridge keeps an office.) It is a study in matte black and faded amber, with accents of crimson in the carpet in Mr. Hughes's office, where a drawing of Atlas holding the world was hung. The wood floors are painted charcoal, and several rooms have large-paned windows that, from the den, overlook an unfinished swimming pool. A chandelier made of deer antlers hung in the foyer, where a vintage typewriter was placed on a table near another pair of antlers, which Mr. Eldridge said he found outside.
It is the type of home typically owned by successful investment bankers in their 40s, not the hard-partying twentysomething digerati set in New York or the nouveau riche in Silicon Valley. ''Chris and Sean are fairly serious for their age,'' said Mr. Socarides, who is friendly with the couple. They often work until late in the evening, and because neither really cooks, eat out at local restaurants, often sharing a bottle of red wine. Both like ''Downton Abbey'' as well as ''The Daily Show.''
Like many of their technology peers, including their former Facebook colleagues Mark Zuckerberg and Sean Parker, neither was to the manner born.
Mr. Hughes grew up in Hickory, N.C., the son of a traveling paper salesman and a schoolteacher. He left home at 15 to attend Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., which he researched on the Internet; it offered him the most generous financial aid of all the places he applied to, he said. The moneyed environment there did not feel entirely comfortable.
''When I was 17, I went to India for six weeks and had what, at the time, was a very challenging trip,'' Mr. Hughes recalled while sitting in his office. ''You walk down the street and you see lepers and beggars, and there were several of us, a group of Americans. I remember we were just trying to park one night somewhere and people were just sleeping in the parking lot.''
The experience did not spark a spiritual awakening, said Mr. Hughes, who was raised an evangelical Lutheran, but something more cerebral. ''It was sort of like, why should one person have so many challenges and another person not?'' he said. ''To me the dissonance between the levels of opportunity, it just doesn't make sense.''
In the fall of 2002, Mr. Hughes enrolled at Harvard and was assigned to share a dorm room with Mr. Zuckerberg and Dustin Moskovitz, who, along with Eduardo Saverin, founded Facebook their sophomore year. For Mr. Hughes, a history and literature student with no programming skills, it later seemed to outsiders a lucky break.
''He is fortunate he found himself in the same room,'' said David Kirkpatrick, a journalist and author of ''The Facebook Effect,'' who spoke with Mr. Hughes for the book. But Mr. Hughes had something his roommates lacked. ''He is more socially adjusted than the rest of them,'' Mr. Kirkpatrick said. ''He's more smooth.''
Mr. Hughes was essentially Facebook's first spokesman. He was a liaison with other universities, drumming up positive press in student newspapers. He also answered phone calls and e-mails. ''I would help out with customer support and anything that would later become product,'' he said. But when Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Moskovitz quit Harvard and moved to Silicon Valley in 2005, Mr. Hughes stayed behind. His studies, he said, ''were a prism to better understand and see how the world works today.''
Mr. Eldridge, meanwhile, the son of two physicians (he has two older sisters) went to public high school in Toledo. He resists revealing personal details in conversation or online, particularly on his Facebook page, which consists mostly of bland political posts and is, according to Mr. Eldridge, ''a professional thing.'' Even friends and colleagues of the couple said they did not know Mr. Eldridge well.
''I think having been close to Facebook from the beginning, it makes you a cautious person,'' Mr. Eldridge said. ''I've always been like that.'' He is such a cautious type, he added later, that he bought extra home fire extinguishers for all the fireplaces.
His wary nature could also be explained in part by his political ambitions. In 2004-5, he spent a year at Deep Springs College, an exclusive two-year all-male school in California's high desert that combined rigorous academic study with life on a cattle ranch. It was a monastic existence, with the school's 26 students expected to herd cows, scrub toilets and, after chores, engage in political discourse and debate social justice. (Past attendees include William vanden Heuvel, a former American diplomat.)
There, Mr. Eldridge worked hard on public speaking, one of the school's required courses. ''He was interested in learning those skills,'' said David Neidorf, Deep Springs's president.
But he also left college for a while to work for a moving company outside Boston. He met Mr. Hughes at a brunch in Harvard Square, after a college acquaintance of Mr. Eldridge's suggested they might become friends. ''A week later I asked him out on a real date,'' Mr. Eldridge said. (It was a dinner in November 2005 at Temple Bar in Cambridge, Mr. Hughes recalled, during which they talked about philosophy and politics.) ''Our relationship became serious pretty quickly,'' said Mr. Eldridge, who later transferred to Brown and graduated with a degree in philosophy in May 2009.
Back in Garrison, it was dusk, and he was staring out his office window at 12 deer grazing on a grassy hill, near where the couple plans to exchange wedding vows in June (after which they'll have a party for 400 at Cipriani Wall Street). ''This is one of my favorite things,'' he said, his voice trailing off.
The lives and the interests of the couple seem so closely intertwined, they might well be the Brangelina of the political/new-media set.
When Mr. Hughes entered to remind Mr. Eldridge it was dinnertime, he tried to sit on the arm of his chair, but didn't comfortably fit and moved to a high-backed chair five feet away.
''I'm so far away from you!'' Mr. Hughes said mournfully.
AT 7 p.m. on Feb. 24, 2011, nearly 100 guests arrived at the couple's SoHo loft for a fund-raiser Mr. Hughes and Mr. Eldridge were hosting for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York. She had met them a year earlier at dinner, where they had discussed a shared interest in legalizing same-sex marriage.
''I said, 'I'd love for you to introduce me to your friends,' '' Senator Gillibrand recalled in a recent interview. The crowd was a mix of prominent, wealthy gay New Yorkers, including the playwright Tony Kushner and the investment banker Charles Myers, as well as politicos like Andrew Tobias, a personal finance author and treasurer of the Democratic National Committee.
The mood was mellow (by contrast, Lady Gaga was a guest at a Silicon Valley fund-raiser for the president hosted by Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, last September). But most of the couple's fund-raising events are low key. Guests say they rarely stay more than two hours. Few celebrities attend, and there is little coverage among the tabloid party press.
Still, what the event lacked in celebrity wattage, it more than made up for in donations and access to the two young men. Said Brian Ellner, an activist for same-sex marriage who was at the event, ''They have emerged as one of the leading couples and hosts for important political events and fund-raising in New York.''
That, for the most part, is by design. The couple say that when they moved to New York in 2009 they decided to use Mr. Hughes's fortune -- and the political clout that came with it -- to promote causes they cared about. ''We can always write a check,'' Mr. Eldridge said, ''but we thought it was more important to get our friends to support issues.''
They exerted their influence in other, more public ways, too. Mr. Eldridge joined the same-sex marriage advocacy group Freedom to Marry in January 2010 as communications director to help promote the passage of a same-sex marriage bill in New York in 2011. He was later given the title political director because, along with his fund-raising ability (he and Mr. Hughes recently donated $250,000), he was a credible spokesman, said Evan Wolfson, who founded the organization. ''He became our prominent face and voice,'' Mr. Wolfson said.
After the same-sex marriage bill passed in New York last year, Mr. Eldridge lessened his involvement in Freedom to Marry. His new area of interest is campaign finance reform in New York State, he said. And he has set up a venture capital firm to invest $50,000 to $500,000 in companies located in the Hudson River Valley. Those endeavors could help him if he decides to run for elected office, but for now, Mr. Eldridge said he had no plans. ''I'm young,'' he said. ''I'm 25. I'm having a great time being an activist. I think that is the right role for me.''
While Mr. Eldridge focused on same-sex marriage, Mr. Hughes started the social networking Web site Jumo in November 2010, which was designed to connect people with nonprofits and charitable organizations. The endeavor failed, though, and merged last August with Good, a media company focused on social causes.
Then Mr. Hughes began mulling the idea of owning his own magazine, in the mold of Mr. Peretz, David Bradley (The Atlantic and National Journal) and Mortimer Zuckerman (U.S. News and World Report) before him -- all men who used their fortunes to buy an instrument of intellectual influence. ''Maybe it is because of Facebook or something else, but I have been interested in journalism for a long time,'' Mr. Hughes said. He decided against the clicks-driven ethos of new-media sites like the Huffington Post (''too horse-racy,'' he said), and wanted to invest in something he perceived to be less cacophonous and more substantial, journalism that he hoped would influence political decision-makers.
He zeroed in on The New Republic, a liberal political and arts magazine founded in 1914 that has lost some popularity after a series of controversies in the 1990s. Mr. Hughes said he spent hours at the New York Public Library last fall reading past issues on microfiche. And before the announcement of his buying a majority stake in March, Mr. Hughes said he met with some of the staff, including the longtime literary editor, Leon Wieseltier.
''We had a long audition of each other in my living room,'' Mr. Wieseltier recalled. ''We asked each other the most basic questions about politics and culture, not just, 'Who did you vote for?' ''
Later, Mr. Wieseltier said Mr. Hughes consulted him about whether the couple's political fund-raising would pose a conflict. ''As long as you are upfront about what you do, it won't,'' Mr. Wieseltier said he told him. After their meetings, the literary editor added: ''I permitted myself to be hopeful. We needed relief and support.''
Sitting in his home office in Garrison, Mr. Hughes had been editor in chief for only two weeks. His plans for The New Republic, though, were more pragmatic than idealistic: making it free online, hiring writers and making content more accessible on electronic tablets like the iPad, as well as a coming redesign. He has also been approached to sponsor several parties, including one at the recent White House Correspondents' Association dinner, he said, but has thus far declined those opportunities.
''Politico needs buzz and Bloomberg is sponsoring every party you can find,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''I'm not interested in that for The New Republic. Buzz is not what I am looking for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARTNERS: Chris Hughes, left, and Sean Eldridge, who are engaged, on their estate in Garrison, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
IN ACTION: Chris Hughes (left, in far left photo) and Sean Eldridge at the Paris Review gala honoring Robert Silvers, with, from left, Mr. Silvers, Rea Hederman, Michael Cunningham and Leon Wieseltier. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ATTENTION TO DETAIL: Chris Hughes, left, and Sean Eldridge plan to marry in June on their estate in Garrison. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 AT HARVARD: Chris Hughes (right) with Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN)(ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); POLITICS (76%); LITERATURE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PUBLISHING (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); EDUCATION REFORM (50%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (54%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); NANCY PELOSI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



234 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: The Party Of Julia

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
A WEEK ago the Obama re-election campaign unveiled a slogan for the fall campaign -- its answer to Ronald Reagan's ''Morning in America,'' Bill Clinton's ''bridge to the 21st century,'' and other successful re-election pitches. There were reports that the slogan-writing process had been a struggle for the White House, and the final product bore those rumors out. ''Forward,'' the Obama campaign will be declaiming to Americans, which feels like a none-too-subtle admission that a look backward at the Obama economic record might be bad news for the president's re-election prospects.
But maybe the White House doesn't need a slogan. After all, it has a person instead: a composite character who's been the talk of Washington these last few days, and whose imaginary life story casts the stakes in this presidential campaign into unusually sharp relief. 
Her name is Julia, and she has the lead role in an Obama 2012 slide show that follows what's supposed to be an American everywoman from childhood into retirement, tracking everything the Obama White House's policies would do for her and everything the ''Romney/Ryan'' Republicans would not. The list of Obama-bestowed benefits includes Head Start when Julia's a tyke, tax credits and Pell grants to carry her through college and low-interest loan repayment afterward, guaranteed birth control when she's a 20-something and government-sponsored loans when she wants to start a business, all of it culminating in a stress-free retirement underwritten by Medicare and Social Security.
All propaganda invites snark and parody, and the story of Julia is ripe for it. She's an everywoman only by the standards of the liberal upper middle class: She works as a Web designer, has her first child in her early 30s (the average first-time American mother is in her mid-20s), and spends her golden years as a ''volunteer at a community garden.'' (It will not surprise you to learn that the cartoon Julia looks Caucasian.)
What's more, she seems to have no meaningful relationships apart from her bond with the Obama White House: no friends or siblings or extended family, no husband (''Julia decides to have a child,'' is all the slide show says), a son who disappears once school starts and parents who only matter because Obamacare grants her the privilege of staying on their health care plan until she's 26. This lends the whole production a curiously patriarchal quality, with Obama as a beneficent Daddy Warbucks and Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan co-starring as the wicked uncles threatening to steal Julia's inheritance.
But if the slide show is easy to mock (and conservatives quickly obliged, tweeting Julia jokes across the Internet), there's also a fascinating ideological purity to its attitudes and arguments. Indeed, both in its policy vision and its philosophical premises, the slide show represents a monument to certain trends in contemporary liberalism.
On the one hand, its public policy agenda is essentially a defense of existing arrangements no matter their effectiveness or sustainability, apparently premised on the assumption that American women can't make cost-benefit calculations or indeed do basic math. In addition to ignoring the taxes that will be required of its businesswoman heroine across her working life, ''The Life of Julia'' hails a program (Head Start) that may not work at all, touts education spending that hasn't done much for high school test scores or cut college costs, and never mentions that on the Obama administration's own budget trajectory, neither Medicare nor Social Security will be able to make good on its promises once today's 20-something Julias retire.
At the same time, the slide show's vision of the individual's relationship to the state seems designed to vindicate every conservative critique of the Obama-era Democratic Party. The liberalism of ''the Life of Julia'' doesn't envision government spending the way an older liberalism did -- as a backstop for otherwise self-sufficient working families, providing insurance against job loss, decrepitude and catastrophic illness. It offers a more sweeping vision of government's place in society, in which the individual depends on the state at every stage of life, and no decision -- personal, educational, entrepreneurial, sexual -- can be contemplated without the promise that it will be somehow subsidized by Washington.
The condescension inherent in this vision is apparent in every step of Julia's pilgrimage toward a community-gardening retirement. But in an increasingly atomized society, where communities and families are weaker than ever before, such a vision may have more appeal -- to both genders -- than many of the conservatives mocking the slide show might like to believe.
Apparently someone in the White House thinks so, which makes the life of Julia the most interesting general-election foray by either campaign to date. Interesting, and clarifying: in a race that's likely to be dominated by purely negative campaigning on both sides, her story is the clearest statement we're likely to get of what Obama-era liberalism would take us ''forward'' toward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); FAMILY (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MEDICARE (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); PAUL RYAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



235 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; RIFF; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: Must-Watch Television. Literally.

BYLINE: By RACHEL NOLAN

 BODY:
A ribbon unfurls in the colors of the Venezuelan flag, while a drum roll announces the show's title sequence and a trumpet tootles. Block-letter words pop up on the screen: ''humanity,'' ''struggle,'' ''socialism.'' It looks for all the world like a ''Daily Show'' parody. And then comes a close-up of the show's host and star, Hugo Chavez, president of Venezuela, usually dressed in all red or a military jacket, sometimes crowned with a Che-style beret, standing on the road among his supporters or before a live audience at Miraflores Palace in Caracas. The show is entirely unscripted. Chavez usually begins by stating the date and saying, ''Alo Presidente!'' then grinning and giving himself a round of applause. ''Alo Presidente!'' he repeats and you can't tell if he's introducing the program by its title or simply greeting and congratulating himself. 
''Alo Presidente'' (''Hello President'') is broadcast live in Venezuela on Sundays from 11 a.m. until Chavez is done talking, which can take anywhere from four to eight hours. It is the only television show in the world in which a head of state regularly invites cameras to follow him as he governs. (Two other South American presidents, Evo Morales of Bolivia and Rafael Correa of Ecuador, briefly spun off their own shows after appearing as guests on ''Alo Presidente'' and being interviewed Oprah-style by Chavez.) But with the exception of the logorrheic Fidel Castro, it's hard to imagine another political figure with the combination of manic exhibitionism and entertainer's stamina required to star in this sort of show, never mind the autocratic control required to make it, literally, must-see TV in his home country.
The show has been running for more than a decade. In its most infamous scene, from 2006, Chavez sits at a desk in a field before a collection of rural supporters, while cows swish their tails behind him. ''You are an ignorant man,'' he says, looking straight into the camera, addressing President George W. Bush, whom for the purposes of the show he has nicknamed Mr. Danger after a villain in a popular Venezuelan novel. It is the height of the Iraq war. ''You are a donkey, Mr. Danger,'' Chavez says, then goes on to call him a coward, assassin and genocidist. ''It's very easy to command an army from far away,'' he says. ''If one day you ever get the crazy idea of invading Venezuela, I'll be waiting for you on this savanna.'' His eyes blaze. The crowd cheers. ''Come on here, Mr. Danger!'' he cries. ''Come on here, Mr. Danger!''
The driving principle behind ''Alo Presidente'' is that the revolution will be televised, at great length. We follow Chavez as he visits housing projects, cuts ribbons at factory openings and expropriates businesses and private property ''owned by the bourgeoisie'' for the state. ''Expropriate it!'' is Chavez's catchphrase, his version of ''You're fired!'' When he points at a building and says, ''Expropiese!'' it's always a cue for applause from his followers.
In fact, Chavez makes so much policy, ad hoc, on the show that cabinet members and army officials are required to attend tapings just to keep up. In 2008, live, Chavez reacted to news that the Colombian Army had made an incursion into Ecuador to kill a FARC leader -- ''a good revolutionary, I knew him personally'' -- by ordering a mustachioed general in the audience to send 10 battalions to the border. This caused a near-war and full-on diplomatic crisis. It was questionable policy. But it certainly made for great TV.
This kind of unexplained turn can help explain why a four-hour show made up of presidential rambling can be compelling, especially from afar. The show's cheap production values and quirky theme music bring to mind nothing so much as an old-school cable-access TV show, of the kind that used to play in New York City in the 1980s -- shows that were part performance art and part gleeful absurdism, like ''Mrs. Mouth,'' which starred an upside-down person's chin dressed as a woman. These shows were distinct for their complete unpredictability, of a type that has since beat a full retreat onto the Internet. ''Alo Presidente'' has that same wacky quality. The difference is that Mrs. Mouth wasn't the autocratic leader of an oil-rich country of 29 million people.
Despite the long run of ''Alo Presidente,'' I'd never watched it until this year; I'd seen Chavez's pronouncements quoted in news articles, so I'd always imagined the show to be a straightforward political address. I discovered its exuberant weirdness only after I began following Chavez on Twitter, then idly clicked on links to clips of the show. At first, I was puzzled and entertained by its format and tone. What was this weird mash-up of state of the union, variety hour, propaganda newsreel and talk show? Chavez's folksy patter, with digressions about baseball and his own gastrointestinal difficulties and the occasional crooned folk song, doesn't at all resemble how heads of state usually comport themselves on TV. (As for foreign affairs, Chavez always likes to mix in some warmongering and crowd-pleasing Yanqui baiting, having moved on from Bush to Obama.) And watching a show that was so obviously meant for other eyes -- that is, the citizens of Venezuela -- seemed to me, on my couch in Brooklyn, surreal and even slightly voyeuristic.
I started watching as a lark but became fascinated with the show when I realized, with some unease, that it was the most real reality TV I'd ever seen. Most shows called ''reality TV'' are marked by a strong measure of fakery. Strangers are stuffed into a house together or ''stranded'' on an island. Bachelors artificially vie for the affections of a surgically enhanced bachelorette. Chavez's show not only reflects reality, it also affects reality. Whatever he says on air, whatever he orders his inferiors to do, however he decides to spend public money, becomes law and policy right away. It's not Monopoly money that he's throwing around. In that sense, it's the only really real reality show out there.
As a piece of pure political theater, one precedent for the show is F.D.R.'s fireside chats, the innovation of which was to make the president sound casual and unguarded. But Chavez, like F.D.R., has not embraced total transparency -- especially when it comes to his own physical frailty. Chavez had a cancerous tumor removed last year, and instead of allowing cameras to follow him through treatment and convalescence in a Cuban hospital, he temporarily canceled the show and stifled information about his medical condition to such an extent that we still don't know what kind of cancer he has. His health, or his perceived health, will be a big factor in the October elections, which Chavez could conceivably lose to a younger, more vigorous challenger. Recently, Chavez returned to Cuba for further medical care, suspending the show again.
In January, after his first rounds of chemotherapy, I tuned in for episode No. 376, filmed on a visit to the Orinoco oil belt. Chavez looked paler, his face swollen, but was as expansive as ever, announcing that Venezuela would refuse to participate in a World Bank arbitration panel that could award billions to ExxonMobil after Chavez expropriated its assets, and implementing a new social program with the Orwellian name the Great Mission Knowledge and Work. Then he made visits to various oil facilities, and footage of him disembarking to cries of ''Viva!'' alternated with long shots between stops, taken from inside his jeep, of rain falling on the gray road.
During my first few hours of watching ''Alo Presidente,'' I felt a mild thrill: the anticipation that the host might make some unexpected move that would affect millions of people. Eventually, though, the show's relentless sameness began to resemble a different aspect of reality -- tedium -- and soon I felt as if I were watching the TV equivalent of Andy Warhol's ''Empire.'' I'd get up to fetch something to eat, and when I returned, there he was, still filling my screen, smiling, proclaiming, self-satisfied, eternal. A normal show could never get away with this, of course. But when you flip through the channels of a Sunday in Caracas, it's all ''Alo Presidente,'' all the time.
But then, the show's intended audience may be watching with a very different perspective. The historian Enrique Krauze has written that ''Alo Presidente'' gives Venezuelans ''at least the appearance of contact with power, through his verbal and visual presence, which may be welcomed by people who have spent most of their lives being ignored.'' While poverty has fallen under Chavez, more than a quarter of the population of Venezuela still lives under the poverty line; inflation last year was second only to Ethiopia's; the slums of Caracas are more dangerous than Baghdad or Ciudad Juarez. As in most Latin American countries, poverty tracks with race, and leaders tend to be ''white,'' which is to say of Spanish ancestry. So it would be hard to overstate the pride that Venezuela's poorest and most marginalized feel in having a black-white-indigenous man as their democratically elected president. But there is no real way of knowing how many people, even among his supporters, follow him on TV.
In one of the more surreal segments, an interviewer stops passers-by on the street in Caracas and asks them whether they watch the show. ''Yes, with great frequency,'' replies an earnest man in glasses. Why? asks the interviewer. ''It's the best way to inform ourselves, with the most clarity,'' he replies. ''The president tells us everything, he hides nothing.'' One girl says she watches to ''absorb our leader's wise words.'' Some of these people chosen apparently at random may in fact be true believers. But if one of them said, ''I don't watch it because I think Chavez is a clown and a tyrant,'' the show might take a darker turn. These interviews also mark the moment that ''Alo Presidente'' finally folds into a house of mirrors: forcing citizens to play the role of engaged viewers while appearing on the show in order to persuade other real-life viewers that the citizens are engaged.
In the end, it doesn't matter much what these people say when the cameras are rolling; and, of course, the opposite is true of Chavez, whose utterances to the camera matter supremely. Anything he decides or does or says on the show instantly becomes the audience's reality, in a tangible way, regardless of whether they are watching. In this sense, ''Alo Presidente'' is unlike anything else on television. A TV show in America, no matter how engaging or successful or artfully put together, is always, in essence, a distraction from life. ''Alo Presidente'' inverts this formula, at least for Venezuelans. Instead of high entertainment value with no real-life significance, it offers low entertainment value with absolute significance. From the safety of my couch, if I become frustrated or bored or enraged or no longer amused, I can interrupt Chavez midsentence, reach out, just turn him off and he is gone. In his own country, it doesn't matter if people watch or not. The Chavez show goes on (and on), and it is the exact same thing as real life.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM GAULD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



236 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MONEY ISSUE; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 3638 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Not-So-Hot Date With Wall Street

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
In late January, Brad Thompson, the Obama campaign's chief liaison to major donors in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, called some of his contacts in the area, most of them Wall Street executives. The president's next trip to town would be in early March. Would they be interested in helping to host a small dinner?
For Obama -- and therefore Thompson -- things had not been going well in New York. The president had already traveled to the city around 20 times during his first term, but he wasn't collecting money from Wall Street the way he used to. By the end of January 2008, Obama had raised well over $7 million from the securities and investment industry. By the end of January this year, he had only $2.4 million to show. Thompson needed this event to bring in at least $2 million more. 
Within a week, he and his two deputies had recruited half a dozen donors to anchor the dinner. It would be their job to bring in most of the guests -- and the money. Some were longtime and well-connected supporters of the president: the New Jersey investor Orin Kramer, who has raised more than $2 million for Obama this cycle; Jane Hartley, a Carter administration alumna and head of the Observatory Group, an economic and political consulting firm; her husband, Ralph Schlosstein; and Robert Wolf, the chairman of UBS Americas. Marc Lasry, a well-known hedge-funder and veteran of the Clintons' fabled fund-raising machine, also signed on. So did Antonio Weiss, the head of investment banking at Lazard, marking his first time out as a host of a presidential dinner.
Three other events were to be held in New York the same day, including a $1,000-a-head gala that would draw close to a thousand people. But the dinner would be a different kind of affair. It would include no more than 60 guests -- large enough to make it worth committing an hour and a half of the president's time, small enough to give donors a sense of intimacy with the most powerful man on the planet. Tickets would top out at $35,800 per person, the maximum combined donation any individual can make to a presidential candidate and his party in a given year.
In a series of conference calls beginning in early February, the hosts began parceling out prospective donors, coordinating who would reach out to whom. The campaign identified a list of about 150 potential guests, and the hosts had their own lists -- sometimes even detailed spreadsheets -- that identified promising targets: friends who at some point had expressed an interest in attending an Obama fund-raiser, or who couldn't make the last event but wanted to come to the next one, or who were lukewarm on the president a few months ago but seemed to be coming around.
A top priority was figuring out how to rope in major Wall Street donors who supported Obama in 2008 but weren't committed to big fund-raising roles in 2012 -- people like Hamilton E. James, the billionaire president and chief operating officer of the private-equity firm Blackstone; and Eric Mindich, a former Goldman Sachs whiz kid who went on to start his own hedge fund. Mitt Romney's campaign had already poached the investor Peter W. May and the hedge-fund titan Paul Tudor Jones, who in 2007 held a 500-person Greenwich, Conn., fund-raiser for Obama with George Soros. The Obama team wanted to avoid more high-profile defections.
''You call some people on Wall Street up, and they're undecided,'' one Obama bundler said. ''They're 'waiting for clarity' -- that's the term they use. Or they say the administration 'hasn't led sufficiently' on an issue.''
Still, there were some factors working in Obama's favor. The Republican primary -- which forced Romney far to the right on issues like immigration and reproductive rights -- had soured some Wall Streeters on his chances to win in November. And negotiations over the implementation of the new Dodd-Frank financial regulations had made large Wall Street institutions, chiefly banks, wary of open war with the White House. ''Most of them are scared stiff of the president,'' a top Romney bundler on Wall Street told me recently. ''Including the ones on our side.''
But by the beginning of the year, it had also become obvious to many on Wall Street that Obama's campaign was going to take a populist turn. Some bankers believed that the administration's strategy was to talk tough in public and play damage control in private, and they were sick of playing along.
One day in late October, Jim Messina, Obama's campaign manager, slipped into the Regency Hotel in New York and walked up to a second-floor meeting room reserved by his aides. More than 20 of Obama's top donors and fund-raisers, many of them from the financial industry, sat in leather chairs around a granite conference table.
Messina told them he had a problem: New York City and its suburbs, Obama's top source of money in 2008, were behind quota. He needed their help bringing the financial community back on board.
For the next hour, the donors relayed to Messina what their friends had been saying. They felt unfairly demonized for being wealthy. They felt scapegoated for the recession. It was a few weeks into the Occupy Wall Street movement, with mass protests against the 1 percent springing up all around the country, and they blamed the president and his party for the public's nasty mood. The administration, some suggested, had created a hostile environment for job creators.
Messina politely pushed back. It's not the president's fault that Americans are still upset with Wall Street, he told them, and given the public's mood, the administration's rhetoric had been notably restrained.
One of the guests raised his hand; he knew how to solve the problem. The president had won plaudits for his speech on race during the last campaign, the guest noted. It was a soaring address that acknowledged white resentment and urged national unity. What if Obama gave a similarly healing speech about class and inequality? What if he urged an end to attacks on the rich? Around the table, some people shook their heads in disbelief.
''Most people in the financial world,'' a top Obama donor later told me, ''do not understand how most of America feels about them.'' But they think they understand how the president's inner circle feels about them. ''This administration has a more contemptuous view of big money and of Wall Street than any administration in 40 years,'' the donor said. ''And it shows.''
Historically, Wall Street, like many large and heavily regulated industries, has been Republican in its politics but pragmatic when it comes to political giving. For most of the last two decades, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, the financial world has split its donations between the two parties, usually favoring Republicans but also giving generously to the Democratic lawmakers who dominate New York.
Even if they didn't agree with Obama on everything in 2008, many in the financial industry looked at him then and saw a reflection of their imagined best selves: brainy, self-made, above the mewlings and histrionics of partisan politics. He seemed like the kind of Democrat even white-shoe Republican bankers and libertarian hedge-funders could get behind, and many of them did. ''There is a growing belief on Wall Street that Barack Obama has the capacity to lead us out of this wilderness,'' Jim Cramer, the financial journalist, wrote several weeks before Election Day.
Obama far outraised his Republican rival, John McCain, on Wall Street -- around $16 million to $9 million -- and Goldman Sachs executives sent Obama more money than employees of any other company in the world. But four years, one recession and a host of battles -- over financial regulation and the nomination of Elizabeth Warren, over Dodd-Frank and the Buffett Rule -- have taken their toll. Some on Wall Street are apoplectic. One former supporter, Dan Loeb, compared Obama to Nero; the president's enemies insinuated worse. In 2010, Stephen A. Schwarzman, a founder of Blackstone, said that an Obama proposal to raise taxes on ''carried interest'' -- the main source of income for most private-equity managers -- reminded him of ''when Hitler invaded Poland in 1939.''
''I think it's an unfixable relationship,'' one Democrat involved in planning the March 1 fund-raisers told me this spring. ''They hate him. They really, really do. They hate all the Democrats.''
And in this election cycle, Wall Streeters didn't have to look far for a more natural fit. Mitt Romney founded a leading private-equity firm, Bain Capital, and he promised to repeal Dodd-Frank altogether. By late fall, invitations to some of Romney's New York fund-raisers were carrying the names of dozens of financial executives, many of whom knew Romney personally or had closed deals with him during his years at Bain. Some Romney donors started asking their Obama-supporting colleagues to Romney events just to tweak them.
Wall Street donors were also emerging as the financial engine behind Restore Our Future, a super PAC founded by former Romney aides. Even as Obama outpaced Romney in traditional fund-raising, Restore Our Future, exploiting the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision and subsequent rulings and regulations, was bringing in millions of dollars in unlimited checks from hedge-fund and private-equity magnates.
By the end of February, the group had raised more than $43 million, almost half of it from Wall Street -- more money than Obama raised from the industry during the entire 2008 campaign. Paul Tudor Jones was among the group's donors, cutting Restore Our Future a $200,000 check in December. At the same time, a super PAC founded by former Obama aides, Priorities USA Action, was struggling, raising less than $5 million, much of it from Hollywood and unions. The Democratic group faced a particularly cold reception among Wall Street Democrats, some of whom feared any money they gave would be used to finance attacks on their own industry.
The huge gulf in super PAC donations terrified the Obama campaign. If they wanted, financiers could pour unlimited money into Restore Our Future, meaning that voters in Ohio, Florida and Pennsylvania might see nothing but negative ads about the president from September through Election Day. (It's no wonder that the Obama team has already held more major fund-raisers than George W. Bush did during the entire 2004 campaign.)
Several of the president's advisers also feared that Wall Street's anger would radiate into the broader business community, driving the narrative that Obama was anti-business. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the combined financial, real estate and insurance sector has given a higher percentage of its contributions to Republicans this year than it has in any cycle since 1990, the first year the center began collecting and categorizing campaign records. Some in the White House also believed that if Wall Street executives were deeply unhappy with the president, the markets would follow suit.
Further complicating matters was the White House's well-known aversion to what is known in the fund-raising world as ''donor maintenance.'' Born as an insurgency against the Democratic establishment, the Obama camp has been criticized for cultivating an aura of disdain for other political and corporate power centers. Efforts to make nice with donors and business leaders -- including repeated pilgrimages by White House and campaign aides to New York and other cities -- were regarded as, at best, halfhearted. And Obama himself had a reputation for being cold at small gatherings, unwilling to stroke donors or cultivate them as the Clintons had. Now he was asking them to help him raise tens of millions of dollars. One New York-area bundler told me about a conversation she had with a friend who attended an Obama fund-raiser.
''I just don't think he likes us,'' the guest reported back.
In early February, Messina traveled to New York again to meet with 30 or so Obama supporters at the Core Club, a members-only establishment in Midtown that caters to the hedge-fund crowd. In a brief presentation, Messina thanked those who had been supportive, described the campaign's plans for 2012 and offered his impressions of the president's likely opponent, Romney. According to several people in the room, he closed with an appeal to the executives for help, asking them to consider signing on as hosts for the small dinner, now scheduled for March 1 (they had just locked in that date). ''We want it to be a big success,'' Messina told the room.
Mindich, the former Goldman whiz kid, had a question. If Romney were the nominee, Mindich asked, how would the Obama campaign go after him? Would it attack his record at Bain Capital? Would it attack the private-equity industry?
Near him sat Blackstone's James, who, just a few weeks earlier, had called attacks on private equity ''vicious . . . inaccurate and unfair.'' Mindich and James are friends, and some in the room speculated that Mindich's question was for James's benefit.
Our target, Messina assured the room, would be Mitt Romney and his record, not the private-equity industry. But the campaign, he added, couldn't control what the president's surrogates -- like Priorities USA -- might do.
James ultimately did not attend the fund-raiser, nor did Mindich. Others were also unpersuaded. Obama's finance team had already realized that if Wall Street was going to give less -- potentially far less -- than last time, other constituencies would have to give more. Hollywood, a reliable source of Democratic campaign cash, was looming larger in Obama's fund-raising calculations. So were tech entrepreneurs and gay donors.
Sure enough, the host list for the March 1 event was changing shape. A dinner that had been aimed chiefly at Wall Streeters was now being branded as an ''executives'' event, one that would demonstrate Obama's support in the larger business world. Sally Susman, a top executive at Pfizer and a prominent fund-raiser in the gay community, came on board as a host; so did Kevin P. Ryan, the C.E.O. of the luxury retailer Gilt Groupe, and Deven Parekh, a New York-based technology venture capitalist. Real estate executives, like Tom A. Bernstein, the president and co-founder of Chelsea Piers, the gigantic sporting complex along the Hudson River, also began appearing on invitations. (Blackstone's James eventually agreed to host his own fund-raiser later in the spring.)
According to Jonathan Mantz, who was Hillary Clinton's finance director in 2008 and who now helps raise money for Priorities USA, good hosts bring ''their unique network that not everyone knows and that only they have -- not the trustee list for the Democratic National Committee.'' It also helps if they're persuasive. For the March 1 dinner, some hosts played up the early signs of an economic recovery. Others highlighted Obama's suggestions that he was open to extending the Bush-era tax cuts, or confided (wrongly, it turns out) that the president might not hold another small dinner in New York City this year. Like all the high-ranking volunteers in Obama's fund-raising efforts, the hosts were e-mailed weekly talking points from the campaign and could request memos on specific issues as needed -- a defense of the administration's record on Israel, say. For those on Wall Street, however, the best argument boiled down to the simplest one: Obama was going to win.
By the middle of February, formal invitations for the small dinner, at Jean-Georges Vongerichten's ABC Kitchen, began arriving in guests' in-boxes. Expanding the pool of hosts seemed to be working: with well over a week to go, the campaign had already secured enough guests to fill the event's 60 seats. By the weekend before, 70 people had signed on. With 72 hours to go -- the deadline for locking the guest list, so that the Secret Service has enough time to run a security check on each guest -- about 80 had committed, most of them paying full freight. Any donors unfamiliar to the Obama operation were also Googled by Thompson and his aides, who searched for potential political minefields or scandals in the making.
Early on the morning of March 1, New York City police officers set up barriers at both ends of 18th Street between Park and Broadway. Blackout curtains had been cast over the front windows of the restaurant, by the bar area. By 4:30 p.m., two young campaign aides in overcoats were stationed at the appointed corner, along with Secret Service agents, and the early arrivals had begun to trickle in. Every few minutes, a confused patron of the nearby Old Town Bar would wander up asking to be admitted, only to be escorted up the block by Secret Service.
Inside the security checkpoint, the partygoers sipped drinks -- a choice of white or red wine or a whiskey cocktail -- while the sound of hundreds of guests at the $1,000-a-head Obama event next door murmured through the walls. The motorcade arrived shortly after 6, and seconds later, two enormous white dumptrucks moved into place on the east end of 19th Street, shutting off the roadway and turning the block into a parking lot for the motorcade.
The hosts had agreed to dispense with the ''clutch,'' the private greeting they receive from the president just before the main event, to give the guests they had invited more time with Obama. Not long after entering through the back of the building, Obama glided into the dimly lit dining room. The guests, midway into their entrees -- fried chicken or grilled bass in a savory broth -- leapt to their feet.
''I didn't mean to interrupt dinner,'' Obama began.
The president's remarks at fund-raisers are in essence a mini-stump speech, drafted by speechwriters, semipublic -- a transcript is typically sent out to the White House press pool -- and delivered, with variations, dozens of times. Here, Obama defended his handling of the financial crisis and highlighted the 250,000 jobs created in the previous months. With a knowing smile, he even expressed some gratitude for the Wall Streeters in attendance.
''So many of you have had to defend me from your co-workers over the last three years,'' he said, drawing a laugh from the crowd. ''Being an Obama supporter is not as trendy as it was.''
When the president wound down and the pool reporters and photographers were hustled out of the room, he took questions from his guests, alternating between men and women. According to the accounts of multiple attendees, James G. Dinan, a billionaire hedge-fund manager, asked about a possible war with Iran and what the White House would do if Israel decided to launch a strike. Susman asked about corporate tax reform. A teenage girl, the daughter of one of the hosts, asked the president about the anti-bullying initiatives he had discussed with Lady Gaga. A Turkish-American guest, one of several recruited for the event, asked about discrimination against Turkish-Americans. In the audience, eyes rolled.
''This is something I don't know about,'' Obama politely explained. ''But we should look into it.'' He directed the question to one of his aides, standing at the back of the room.
When no more hands went up, Obama began circulating around the room, going table to table counterclockwise. At some past events, the president's team would arrange for an empty chair to be at each table -- ''the Elijah chair,'' as some donors call it -- so that Obama would have a place to sit. But with the event oversubscribed, Obama stayed on his feet. He seemed affable, guests said, more willing to banter than usual. An aide lingered nearby, unobtrusively moving Obama along, while a photographer from the campaign took candid shots that would later be made available to the guests.
At one table, Obama began talking to Larry Rockefeller, who congratulated the president for supporting higher tax rates on the very wealthy. ''We agree with Warren Buffett!'' exclaimed Rockefeller, a prominent conservationist and philanthropist. At another table, the president recognized Jeffrey R. Gural, a real estate developer and major Democratic donor. The two had spoken around Christmas, when Obama, who had planned to be in Hawaii but was kept in Washington because of payroll-tax negotiations, called Gural to thank him for his support. Gural introduced him to his wife, Paula, and told the president how much he appreciated his phone call.
Gural was upset about the Republicans' resistance to the president's tax proposal -- but he was also concerned about the White House's messaging. ''If you ask someone coming out of Grand Central Station if they've had their taxes lowered, none of them would believe it,'' Gural said.
Obama agreed. ''We've done a bad job of getting that message out,'' the president told him.
At about 7:30, Obama left the room for a private meeting with a few aides and one of the hosts, UBS's Robert Wolf. About an hour later, he re-emerged to speak to the crowd at the gala next door. By 9:30, he was on his way to a dessert event on the Upper East Side -- his 100th major fund-raiser of the campaign. In just one night, he raised more than $5 million. It was nearly a one-day record, enough to put New York back on track for its fund-raising quota.
Back inside ABC Kitchen, the air went out of the room almost as soon as Obama left. Some stuck around an hour or so longer, the old Obama fund-raising base in New York mixing with the emerging one. Michael Kempner, a public-relations executive who is among the top Obama fund-raisers in the country, held court with the Turkish-Americans, most of them new to political giving. Several others stayed to greet Jack Lew, the president's chief of staff and a New York native. But others had theater tickets, or children waiting at home. They had put in their time and plenty of their money, and the president, they knew, would be back in town soon enough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The $35,800: Dinner Donors enter an Obama fund-raising event at ABC Kitchen in Manhattan, March 1, 2012. This page (clockwise from top left): Antonio Weiss, Marc and Cathy Lasry, Felix Rohatyn, Ralph Schlosstein and Jane Hartley. (MM50)
This page (clockwise from top left): Deven Parekh, James Rubin, Robert Wolf, Susan Patricof. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTAAN FELBER) (MM51)
 A member of the Secret Service at the ABC Kitchen event. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM54) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



237 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: The Heavy Hitters

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN, KATE ZERNIKE, DANNY HAKIM and AL BAKER

 BODY:
As part of a special issue of Metropolitan on the powers of New York, here is how four of the most influential players in the region shape policy, and lives.
Michael R. Bloomberg Mayor of New York City
He may be a lame-duck leader whose name will likely never appear on a ballot again. And he may be remembered, ultimately, as a political anomaly whose staggering wealth and maverick streak often put him at odds with the labor and lobbying forces that have typically dominated New York City government.
But don't think for a second that MayorMichael R. Bloomberg won't be the most powerful person in New York City politics even after he leaves office. 
After all, Mr. Bloomberg has demonstrated an unparalleled ability to change the conversation, whether through his checkbook or his policies. Sometimes, he has done this instantly, like the time he donated $250,000 to Planned Parenthood during the recent controversy involving the Susan G. Komen for the Cure foundation. Sometimes, he has done this through dogged persistence, as when he wrested control of the city's schools from the Board of Education.
Mr. Bloomberg has not given any indication of what he will do next, but he is unlikely to simply walk away from the public sphere. Maybe he will continue to exert influence and shape policies through his foundation. Maybe he will focus more attention on his media company. Or maybe he will work behind the scenes to ensure that his preferred successor wins in 2013 -- and, therefore, owes him a substantial political debt. DAVID W. CHEN
Chris Christie Governor of New Jersey
Chris Christie became the governor of New Jersey at a propitious moment for a conservative Republican in a blue state. The economy was in such bad shape that even Democrats, who controlled the Legislature, were pushing for austerity measures. But Mr. Christie has also worked the power structure to get what he wants -- making alliances with conservative Democrats to force teachers, police officers and firefighters to pay more of their pension and health care costs.
Using a strategy his advisers refer to as ''governing on the offensive,'' Mr. Christie keeps the Legislature guessing about what he will do next. He shows contempt for those who disagree with him (calling a former Navy Seal who disagreed with his plan to merge a Rutgers campus with another university ''an idiot,'' for instance). But he has also shown a willingness to compromise with lawmakers to win agenda items like a cap on property taxes.
His tough budgeting and tough talk (''Get the hell off the beach,'' he told residents of the Jersey Shore before Hurricane Irene) have made him a national star in his party and on television, and a sought-after endorsement for aspiring office holders. And that attention cements his lock on power. For while the governor does not lack for critics in New Jersey, he leaves them sputtering at home while he takes his case to a national audience, with regular appearances on weekday morning and Sunday television gabfests -- not to mention a sit-down with Oprah. Democrats insist he can be beaten next year -- rating agencies have said that his revenue projections are too optimistic and that his budget is ''structurally unbalanced.'' But deal-making with the governor has left the state's Democrats divided, and they have yet to coalesce around a candidate to take him on. KATE ZERNIKE
Andrew M. Cuomo Governor of New York
When Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo proclaimed, ''I am the government'' during a recent radio interview, he wasn't translating the utterances of Louis XIV. He was talking about himself.
And perhaps New York's 56th governor has reason to feel monarchical. His poll numbers are sky high, and he is clearly the dominant politician in New York. He controls the Democratic Party and has a truce of sorts with the Republicans, content to let the party carve up the state's Senate districts to help it maintain control of the Legislature's upper house this fall.
His resume of accomplishments balances a largely centrist fiscal agenda with a signature progressive achievement -- making New York the largest state to legalize same-sex marriage. He has also had a knack for deftly splitting the difference. After he declined to extend the so-called millionaires' tax, he appeared unnerved by the Occupy Wall Street movement and restructured the tax code to keep about half of the revenue that the tax would have brought in.
The Washington Post recently declared him the winner of a Sweet 2016 contest of front-runners for the 2016 presidential race, though the governor has demurred. Going national could be a challenge for a politician who places a premium on secrecy and bristles at opposition. As the governor's former top aide, Steven M. Cohen, recently described the Cuomo philosophy, ''We operate at two speeds here: get along and kill.'' DANNY HAKIM
Raymond W. Kelly Police Commissioner
Most police commissioners derive their clout from the mayor they serve, but Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has spent a lifetime moving through New York's corridors of power -- and it shows. The only man who has held the job two times, for Democratic and Republican mayors, he has now run the department longer than any of his predecessors. The forces aligned with him are reflected in the names in his Rolodex: prosecutors, authors, bankers, government officials in the United States and abroad, real estate executives, lawyers, politicians and law enforcement leaders, as well as Howard J. Rubenstein, the public relations guru, and a former president, Bill Clinton.
''That's just a sampling,'' said Paul J. Browne, the aide who provided the list and serves as the department's chief spokesman. ''I didn't want to overwhelm you with any more.''
Polls reflect Mr. Kelly's continuing popularity, ratings that are the envy of politicians, even as he endured waves of turmoil last year over corruption scandals, the department's street-stop and surveillance methods, and a level of budget-cutting that has shrunk the force to 35,000 officers from more than 40,000 in 2000.
On April 20, President Obama's top counterterrorism adviser, John O. Brennan, came to 1 Police Plaza and expressed support for Mr. Kelly, saying the ''N.Y.P.D. does tremendous work, day in and day out.''
As he was in 2008, Mr. Kelly has been suggested as a mayoral contender for next year's run for City Hall, though he has not publicly expressed interest in the office. AL BAKER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raymond W. Kelly (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); HURRICANES (60%); BEACHES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



238 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 4375 words

HEADLINE: The Power Players of New York

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
For this special issue, the Metropolitan section asked the reporters who cover the New York region to identify the powerful figures on their beats, and to explain what gave them clout and where they fell on the chain of influence in New York. A separate article identifies those figures who earned the highest spot in our power pantheon: heavy hitters. The rest, arranged alphabetically below, are either established players or rising stars.
Design Antenna Design (Rising Star)
In a square, one-room office on West 23rd Street, two rarely seen faces wield untold influence over the daily lives of millions of New Yorkers. They are Masamichi Udagawa and Sigi Moeslinger, and if you ride the subways, chances are that their work influences the quality of this most intimate human encounter. 
Mr. Udagawa, 47, and Ms. Moeslinger, 44, are the principals of Antenna Design, the company behind the last major changes to New York's subway cars, in 2000 and 2006. Of the city's 6,374 subway cars, 3,504 bear the pair's interior and exterior designs, as do MetroCard vending machines and other accouterments of underground life. These are people who obsess about the effects of steel dust on MetroCard readers or the ways light and color can influence riders' moods.
''We subscribe to the idea of City Beautiful,'' Mr. Udagawa said, referring to an architectural and urban-planning movement from the 1890s and 1900s that sought to use attractive design to make people better citizens. ''It promotes the idea that a nice environment creates nice behavior.''
Doing that underground, in a crowded, smelly subway system, presents challenges. ''A simple trick can go a long way,'' Mr. Udagawa said. ''The new trains have a glossy black floor and light ceilings and walls, which make the space feel bigger than it is.''
The two designed cars with digital station listings to help passengers track their progress, and with diagonal metal bars by the doors because, Ms. Moeslinger said, if the bars were horizontal, riders would climb them. ''We're trying to lead people to behavior,'' she said. ''But there are limits to how much design can control the situation. Then you have to come in with rules and regulations.'' JOHN LELAND
Religion The Rev. A. R. Bernard (Established Player)
The Rev. A. R. Bernard, pastor of the 36,000-member Christian Cultural Center in southeast Brooklyn, can identify, it seems, with half the city. He is Panamanian by birth, but a New Yorker since age 4. African-American, but also of white and Latino heritage. Republican, but he voted for Barack Obama. A born-again Christian, but once a member of the Nation of Islam. He spreads the Gospel, but is close with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who is Jewish, and speaks with him roughly every other week. ''We clicked,'' Mr. Bernard said.
Mr. Bernard, 59, is an adept political force in New York City, a preacher who would rather guide public policy behind the scenes than shout about it in front of the cameras. His discretion and his willingness to work with people with whom he disagrees on some matters -- like, he said, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker who is a lesbian -- have made him a moderate in the evangelical Christian world, and a sought-after bridge between liberal politicians and more conservative constituencies. (His church is the largest in the region.)
Mr. Bernard lives in Smithtown, on Long Island, and cannot vote in the city, but he endorsed Mr. Bloomberg in all three of his campaigns. He has not yet decided if he will back anyone in the coming mayoral race, but the hopefuls have come courting. What is he looking for? ''Competence and passion,'' he said. SHARON OTTERMAN
Federal Court Preet Bharara (Rising Star)
In the past year, Preet Bharara,the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, has done more than anyone to affect New York's political landscape -- and he has never held elected office.
As Manhattan's chief federal prosecutor, Mr. Bharara, 43, is best known for his aggressive prosecution of Wall Street crime, but he has also won corruption convictions against State Senator Carl Kruger of Brooklyn, once the powerful chairman of the Senate Finance Committee; the lobbyist Richard J. Lipsky, a ubiquitous presence in Albany and City Hall; and four other defendants in a political bribery scandal. The mayoral aspirations of Comptroller John C. Liu have been hampered as Mr. Bharara investigates his campaign finances. (Mr. Liu has not been accused of wrongdoing; his former campaign treasurer was indicted last month.) And in March, a former Yonkers councilwoman was convicted in another corruption case.
Mr. Bharara also announced in March that a city contractor, Science Applications International Corporation, which ran the troubled CityTime automated payroll project, had agreed to pay $500 million as a penalty and restitution for what Mr. Bharara called one of the ''largest and most brazen frauds ever committed against the city of New York.'' The city plans to use its share, $466 million, to help fill its budget shortfall.
Rose Gill Hearn, commissioner of the city's Department of Investigation, which referred the CityTime case to Mr. Bharara and regularly sends corruption matters his way, said: ''He reaches out: 'Let's meet.' 'Let's talk.' I think he understands that there are significant cases being generated by D.O.I., and he wants to do them.'' BENJAMIN WEISER
Transportation Alison Cohen (Rising Star)
When it comes to transportation, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's legacy is riding on two wheels -- and Alison Cohen will largely determine how the mayor is judged. Since 2008, Mr. Bloomberg has been trying to roll out a bike-share program. Ms. Cohen, 37, is president of Alta Bicycle Share, the third-party vendor selected last year to create the oft-delayed system, which will eventually bring 10,000 bikes to 600 stations in the city, starting this summer.
With no city financing, Ms. Cohen has been scrambling to find $50 million in sponsorships. She has also been trying to persuade community boards and local groups to embrace her plans to devote precious street and sidewalk space to bike stations, with an avalanche of planning meetings and open houses in the city. ''She has established a lot of trust with a lot of very skeptical New Yorkers,'' said Paul Steely White, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, a bicycling and public-transit advocacy organization. (She earns points by biking to meetings.)
Ms. Cohen has drive. She held her Pennsylvania high school's scoring record in basketball -- until it was broken by Kobe Bryant. She played tennis professionally and worked for Goldman Sachs before starting bike-share programs in Boston, Washington and Melbourne, Australia.
The program ''will cement the importance of the mayor's vision that New York should be a city not just where people come to work, but where families and residents, tourists, visitors can enjoy the city together,'' said Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business group. CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY
Immigration Dream Activists (Rising Star)
Among the residents of New York, there may be no population with less power than illegal immigrants. Most live in the shadows of society, trying to avoid the kind of scrutiny that might lead to their deportation.
But some illegal immigrants have cast off their anonymity: the Dream activists. The name comes from proposed federal legislation known as the Dream Act, which would create a path to legal status for young illegal immigrants who go to college or serve in the military. The legislation has surfaced in various forms over the past decade and has been repeatedly defeated, but some states have passed or, like New York, are considering versions that would make young illegal immigrants eligible for financial aid at public colleges and universities.
Hundreds of Dream activists, working individually and under the banner of youth-led groups like the New York State Youth Leadership Council and United We Dream, have become the face of the campaign, organizing demonstrations, lobbying politicians and sharing their personal stories in the news media. They include the scores of people who, at their own peril, rallied in March outside Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's office in support of the legislation; the group that walked last month to Albany from New York City to raise awareness of their cause; and the 10 City University of New York students, all illegal immigrants, who came forward in March to accept Dream Fellowships.
Mr. Cuomo has been noncommittal on the legislation so far. But regardless of whether it passes, supporters say the Dream activists have irrevocably changed the complexion of the immigration debate in New York. KIRK SEMPLE
Health Dr. Thomas A. Farley (Established Player)
Dr. Thomas A. Farley, the city's health commissioner, is the man behind those graphic anti-obesity ads on the subway, the crackdown on smoking at parks and beaches, and arguably the demise of the communal cheese pot at Sardi's. Dr. Farley and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a calorie-conscious ex-smoker, may not always be the first to carry out initiatives like posting letter grades for restaurants (Los Angeles, for example, had already done that), but with New York as their testing ground, they have an outsize influence on the public health policy conversation around the globe. (And laugh all you want, but since 2000, two years before Mr. Bloomberg took office, the life expectancy for New Yorkers at birth has risen by nearly three years, compared with about 1.5 years nationwide.)
At meetings, Dr. Farley said, his staff is often approached by health officials from other places, ''and they'll say, 'What's the next big idea?' ''
Dr. Farley, 56, an infectious-disease specialist, came to New York from the Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine three years ago, as the swine-flu pandemic was spreading. He is an avid biker, swimmer and runner, with a marathon time of 3 hours 25 minutes. His approach to public health has its share of critics, including smokers and anti-hunger advocates, who say that in his zeal to fight obesity with proposals like banning the use of food stamps to buy soda (that one failed), he runs the risk of stigmatizing poor people. (The decision to remove the free cheese at Sardi's ended with a ''did not, did too'' argument over whether the health department's intricate rules about temperature and sharing food were to blame.)
His next target? ''Prescription painkillers,'' he said. ''Really a national epidemic.'' ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS
Parks Patricia E. Harris (Established Player)
While the city parks department's budget for maintenance and operations has been slashed by $54 million in the past four years, capital spending on parks -- the purview of the first deputy mayor, Patricia E. Harris -- has gone emphatically in the other direction. Over the past decade, the city has spent $112 million on the first two sections of the High Line, allotted $208 million for Brooklyn Bridge Park and disbursed $60 million to Governors Island while committing $306 million through 2021.
The parks department is only part of Ms. Harris's portfolio; she also oversees the Landmarks Preservation Commission and the Consumer Affairs, the Cultural Affairs and the Design and Construction Departments.
Just as outside observers point to Ms. Harris, 56, she points to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. ''Parks were always a very important part of the city for him,'' she said. ''When he became mayor, he said, 'This is a priority for our administration.' ''
The parks agenda was laid out in PlaNYC, a 2007 manifesto that spawned, among other things, initiatives to plant a million trees, convert schoolyards to playgrounds and pour $291 million into eight regional parks in underserved areas. Total parkland has increased by 725 acres under the Bloomberg administration.
Holly M. Leicht, executive director of New Yorkers for Parks, a nonprofit group, called Ms. Harris ''a tremendous advocate for parks,'' saying she had been ''vital to keeping the administration's signature projects on track in this time of drastic budget cuts.'' LISA W. FODERARO
The Bronx Carl E. Heastie (Rising Star)
Yellow-cab drivers may not like Carl E. Heastie, the six-term assemblyman from the Bronx who has helped to lead efforts to expand livery pickups in northern Manhattan and the other boroughs.
But political insiders say Mr. Heastie's power lies in his ability to unite the famously fractious Bronx, where rival political families have taken grudge-holding to new levels (Example A: the Diaz versus Espada saga). Now, for the first time in years, there is a truce in the borough, with political leaders not just on speaking terms but also actively working toward common goals like economic development.
Mr. Heastie, 44, a native son of the Bronx, was part of a 2008 coalition of politicians that cut across racial, ethnic and socioeconomic lines. Called the ''Rainbow Rebels'' by the news media, they took control of the Bronx Democratic County Committee from the forces of the longtime party leader, Jose Rivera.
Mr. Heastie took over as county leader, and he is said to be a consensus-builder. ''There are two ways that political leaders try to accomplish their goals,'' said Jeffrey Dinowitz, a state assemblyman from the Bronx who works closely with Mr. Heastie. ''One way is to yell and scream, and that's not his way. The other way is to try to bring people together.'' WINNIE HU
Congressional Delegation Steve Israel (Rising Star)
Not all that long ago, Steve Israel was just another Democratic House member from New York. But with the 2012 elections just six months away, Mr. Israel, 52, has become the chief architect of the party's efforts to retake control of the House, where Republicans have held the majority since the 2010 midterm elections.
As chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Mr. Israel has a role in tailoring his party's national message, controls millions of dollars in campaign money and is turning grateful candidates across the nation into potential allies.
But the job is not without risk. Come November, Mr. Israel will be judged, fairly or not, on whether Democrats pick up the 25 seats they need to reclaim the majority in the House.
In some respects, Mr. Israel is an odd choice for such a partisan job. Over six terms in Congress, he has earned a reputation as a centrist representing a modest district of bedroom communities on Long Island.
But he is also ambitious and energetic. Two years ago, he was ready to defy his party's leadership and stage a primary challenge against Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, who had been appointed to fill the seat vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton. He backed down only after President Obama intervened.
Mr. Israel has another important qualification: He is a fierce fund-raiser. Since taking the helm of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee 16 months ago, the committee has raised about $83.6 million -- about $10 million more than the House Republicans' campaign organization. RAYMOND HERNANDEZ
Brooklyn Hakeem Jeffries (Rising Star)
Hakeem Jeffries, a state assemblyman, is the front-runner in the race for the Brooklyn Congressional seat held for 15 terms by Representative Edolphus Towns, with a $400,000 campaign chest. Winning would make him the representative of a heavily black district in a borough where blacks are the largest reliably Democratic ethnic group, and would give him a grip on federal dollars for housing and jobs. Mr. Jeffries, 41, a former lawyer at the Paul Weiss firm, is politically moderate and untouched by scandal, and can talk to the gentrifiers in Clinton Hill and Fort Greene and to the Hasidim in Crown Heights. ''He has the potential to swing a much larger bat in the power game than any of the black leaders in Brooklyn,'' said Norman Adler, a Democratic political consultant.
In the State Assembly, Mr. Jeffries sponsored a bill, passed in 2010, that prohibited the police from collecting data on people stopped and frisked but not charged with a crime, a major issue for minority voters. He lives in Prospect Heights with his wife and two sons, and he may have higher political ambitions, judging by his observation in an interview that the city's black power center had shifted from Harlem. ''This is an opportunity for a new generation of African-American leaders to emerge who can advance the interests of our community but appeal to a broader group of individuals,'' he said. JOSEPH BERGER
New York Courts Jonathan Lippman (Established Player)
The job of the state's chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, who leads not only New York's highest court but also its vast judicial bureaucracy, by definition comes with clout. But in Judge Lippman's 11 years as the top administrator under the last chief judge, Judith S. Kaye, he learned his way around the halls of power. Three years into his tenure as Judge Kaye's successor, Judge Lippman, 66, has used that savvy to become, in the eyes of many, a bigger player than she was outside the courtroom on policy, budgetary, administrative and legislative issues.
Some judges and lawyers fear Judge Lippman because he knows the administrative machinery that court officials can use to punish and reward. New York's liberal establishment has been largely neutralized as a source of criticism because he has staked out a progressive role, not only in individual cases, but also on causes like increasing state financing for lawyers who represent poor people. He is also a schmoozer who has had lunch with Donald Trump and breakfast with Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan. ''He has a political sense to know where to push and what to push for,'' said Vincent E. Doyle III, president of the State Bar Association. And when he calls, Mr. Doyle said, ''he calls me Vinnie.'' WILLIAM GLABERSON
Labor Michael Mulgrew (Rising Star)
When a city politician speaks about schools, you can be sure a conversation with Michael Mulgrew happened first. Mr. Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, the city's largest union of public school workers, has become one of the most influential figures in New York education, the hot topic of next year's mayoral race.
Labor has fallen out of favor in City Hall thanks to a wealthy mayor who does not depend on unions' donations or their formidable get-out-the-vote efforts, but that will change in 2013, when the race could be decided in a Democratic primary with heavy turnout from the left-leaning teachers' union, which has 200,000 active and retired members.
Mr. Mulgrew, 46, a Staten Island native, has already started running television advertisements, and he is training his guidance counselors and secretaries in the electoral arts of leafleting and phone banking. Recently, he drew headlines by attacking Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, for employing consultants who also work for a nonprofit group supportive of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's school policies.
He plans to endorse a mayoral candidate, unlike in 2009, when the union declined to pick a favorite. And polls show that voters trust the union over the mayor to protect students' interests. MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM
Economic Development Seth W. Pinsky (Rising Star)
Slightly built, soft-spoken and unfailingly courteous, Seth W. Pinsky, 40, seems ill suited to drag New York City's economy back from the brink of financial crisis. But for the past four years, that has been his task as president of the Economic Development Corporation, and the biggest idea he has championed has been to build an engineering school from scratch on some underused city property.
After the Lehman Brothers investment bank failed in 2008, persuading a world-class university to invest heavily in New York seemed far-fetched. But Mr. Pinsky's persistence resulted in an offer that brought Stanford University, among others, calling, and the city regained some of its luster. Who could turn down the chance to claim Stanford's first degree-granting campus this side of Silicon Valley?
It turned out that Mr. Pinsky could. Not swayed by Stanford's cachet, he and his negotiating team insisted on stiff penalties if the university did not meet its promises in setting up shop on Roosevelt Island. Stanford balked, and now, Cornell University plans to build a $2 billion campus in the same spot. Mr. Pinsky said he was ''100 percent satisfied with where the process ended up.''
In April, he had the bonus of standing beside Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to announce that the city had gotten ''two for one,'' because New York University plans to open an ''urban science'' school in Downtown Brooklyn. PATRICK McGEEHAN
Real Estate Stephen M. Ross (Established Player)
The developer Stephen M. Ross is not afraid of a fight. Mr. Ross, 72, the chairman and chief executive of Related Companies, has clashed with fellow developers like Donald Trump and Joseph Moinian, and has wrestled with New York's powerful construction unions over wages and work rules. Now, at the planned $15 billion, 26-acre Hudson Yards development on the West Side of Manhattan, he is trying to overhaul the way projects are built in the city by getting more concessions from the unions and by eliminating subcontractors, cutting a traditional layer of costs.
It is unclear if he will win, but it is hard to bet against him. Mr. Ross and his partners at Related built the $1.7 billion Time Warner Center -- twin 80-story towers at Columbus Circle with shops, a hotel and luxury apartments -- after a 16-year battle over the site, and he is trying to revive the long-stalled transformation of the James A. Farley Post Office into Moynihan Station. In his latest scheme, he has offered to build Borough of Manhattan Community College a larger campus inside the post office in exchange for the school's land downtown.
In fact, Related is juggling six projects in the city right now, including the first phase of Hunters Point South, the largest affordable-housing complex built in New York since the 1970s. On the weekends, Mr. Ross has been trying to turn the Miami Dolphins, the N.F.L. franchise he bought for $1.1 billion, into a championship team. CHARLES V. BAGLI
Economic Sector Tech Companies (Rising Star)
A prime example of the rise of New York's tech companies from economic engine to civic presence is the board of the New York City Investment Fund. When the fund was founded 16 years ago to funnel city elites' energy and money into public projects, its board was filled with the usual do-gooders from the real estate, financial and legal industries. Now two seats belong to members of the Internet community: Kevin P. Ryan, chief executive of the online retailer Gilt Groupe, and Fred Wilson, a founding partner of the venture capital firm Union Square Ventures.
''What's happening is that as tech in New York becomes bigger and more mature, some people are getting more successful and more plugged in,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''And so the sector as a whole has more seats at the table.''
Sometimes this involves mayoral candidates like Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, or Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, dropping by the Gilt Groupe offices for the ''you're on our radar'' conversations commonly conducted with more traditionally deep-pocketed industries. Other times it means nationally known politicians like Charles E. Schumer, New York's senior senator, checking in on net neutrality or other digital issues.
While the tech industry has spawned a few influential (and donation-ready) fortunes, smaller companies believe they have a different kind of clout. In November, for example, when Congress held a hearing on the Stop Online Piracy Act, Tumblr, a micro-blogging site based in New York, put an icon on its home page that allowed users, with a single click, to call their elected representatives directly to complain. In one day, 90,000 users did so.
Andrew McLaughlin, former deputy chief technology officer for President Obama and now a vice president at Tumblr, said the ''start-uppy, more nimble'' parts of the sector were starting to practice what he called ''civic hacking.''
To capitalize on tech's newfound muscle, Brad Burnham, Mr. Wilson's partner at Union Square Ventures, recently recruited an advocate -- he avoided the word ''lobbyist'' -- to represent the industry's concerns. The advocate, Nick Grossman, will be based at and partly financed by Union Square Ventures. His mandate, Mr. Burnham said, will be ''to alert people to issues and to organize opposition to ones detrimental'' to the tech sector.
Mr. Burnham added, ''We want to use the Internet to save the Internet.'' ALAN FEUER
Education Merryl H. Tisch (Established Player)
A friend of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's and an advocate of many of his education reforms, Merryl H. Tisch is also the highest-ranking thorn in the mayor's side from her post as chancellor of the New York State Board of Regents.
Take school improvement grants: federal money given to failing schools by the Obama administration. While visiting one city recipient, Ms. Tisch, 56, called schools like it ''warehouses'' for struggling students, who were put there after the city closed the schools they used to attend. She admitted to regretting her choice of words as they came out of her mouth, but said she did not regret the ensuing debate. ''The ultimate result was to have a much better conversation,'' she said.
She said that the differences between her and the mayor were often smaller than people thought, and that they arose because the Bloomberg administration was so goal-oriented. ''I think they believe that policy gets in the way of the choices they would like to make,'' she said. ''In our judgment, those choices are sometimes superb, and sometimes we question those choices.''
One of those choices has been Mr. Bloomberg's expansion of charter schools. ''Creating choice has been an invaluable tool in improving school results,'' Ms. Tisch said, but she wondered aloud about the unintended consequences of the policy. ''In addition to choice is more focus on the good work in public schools and supporting them,'' she said.
Ms. Tisch will be around to prod the next mayor, too: her term on the Board of Regents does not expire until 2016. JENNY ANDERSON

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sigi Moeslinger and Masamichi Udagawa
Dr. Thomas A. Farley
The Dream activists
Preet Bharara (MB8)
Carl E. Heastie
Hakeem Jeffries
Patricia E. Harris (MB9)
Stephen M. Ross
Merryl H. Tisch
Seth W. Pinsky
 Kevin P. Ryan (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (88%); RELIGION (84%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

PERSON: HAKEEM JEFFRIES (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



239 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Few, Grads Flock to Unpaid Internships

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Confronting the worst job market in decades, many college graduates who expected to land paid jobs are turning to unpaid internships to try to get a foot in an employer's door.
While unpaid postcollege internships have long existed in the film and nonprofit worlds, they have recently spread to fashion houses, book and magazine publishers, marketing companies, public relations firms, art galleries, talent agencies -- even to some law firms.
Melissa Reyes, who graduated from Marist College with a degree in fashion merchandising last May, applied for a dozen jobs to no avail. She was thrilled, however, to land an internship with the Diane von Furstenberg fashion house in Manhattan. ''They talked about what an excellent, educational internship program this would be,'' she said.
But Ms. Reyes soon soured on the experience. She often worked 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., five days a week. ''They had me running out to buy them lunch,'' she said. ''They had me cleaning out the closets, emptying out the past season's items.'' Asked about her complaints, the fashion firm said, ''We are very proud of our internship program, and we take all concerns of this kind very seriously.'' 
Although many internships provide valuable experience, some unpaid interns complain that they do menial work and learn little, raising questions about whether these positions violate federal rules governing such programs.
Yet interns say they often have no good alternatives. As Friday's jobs report showed, job growth is weak, and the unemployment rate for 20- to 24-year-olds was 13.2 percent in April.
The Labor Department says that if employers do not want to pay their interns, the internships must resemble vocational education, the interns must work under close supervision, their work cannot be used as a substitute for regular employees and their work cannot be of immediate benefit to the employer.
But in practice, there is little to stop employers from exploiting interns. The Labor Department rarely cracks down on offenders, saying that it has limited resources and that unpaid interns are loath to file complaints for fear of jeopardizing any future job search.
No one keeps statistics on the number of college graduates taking unpaid internships, but there is widespread agreement that the number has significantly increased, not least because the jobless rate for college graduates age 24 and under has risen to 9.4 percent, the highest level since the government began keeping records in 1985. (Employment experts estimate that undergraduates work in more than one million internships a year, with Intern Bridge, a research firm, finding almost half unpaid.)
''A few years ago you hardly heard about college graduates taking unpaid internships,'' said Ross Eisenbrey, a vice president at the Economic Policy Institute who has done several studies on interns. ''But now I've even heard of people taking unpaid internships after graduating from Ivy League schools.''
Matt Gioe had little luck breaking into the music and entertainment industry after graduating with a philosophy degree from Bucknell last year. To get hands-on experience, he took an unpaid position with a Manhattan talent agency that booked musical acts. He said he answered phones and looked up venues. Although he was sometimes told to make bookings, he said he received virtually no guidance on how to strike a deal or how much to charge. But the boss did sometimes ask him to run errands like buying groceries.
''It was basically three wasted months,'' he said.
Mr. Eisenbrey said many companies were taking advantage of the weak labor market to use unpaid interns to handle chores like photocopying or running errands once done by regular employees, which can raise sticky legal questions.
Eric Glatt, who at age 40 interned for the movie ''Black Swan,'' is one of the few interns with the courage to sue for wages over the work he did.
With an M.B.A. and a master's in international management, Mr. Glatt wanted to get into film after a previous job overseeing training programs at the American International Group, the big insurance and financial services company. For ''Black Swan,'' he prepared documents for purchase orders and petty cash, traveled to the set to obtain signatures on documents and tracked employees' personnel data.
''I knew that this was going to be a normal job and I wasn't going to be paid for it,'' he said. ''But it started kicking around in my mind how unjust this was. It's just become part of this unregulated labor market.''
Mr. Glatt filed suit, accusing Fox Searchlight Pictures of minimum wage violations. The company says it fully complies with the law and provides interns with a valuable, real-world work experience.
''The purpose of filing this case was to help end this practice,'' said Mr. Glatt, who now plans to go to law school. ''That was more important than my working on the next blockbuster.''
Ross Perlin, author of the 2011 book ''Intern Nation,'' said postcollege internships used to be confined to a few fields like film but have become far more common. ''The people in charge in many industries were once interns and they've come of age, and to them unpaid internships are completely normal and they think of having interns in every way, shape and form,'' he said.
Some interns say their experiences were quite helpful. Emily Miethner, a fine arts major at Hofstra, took an unpaid position at Gawker after graduating in 2010, doing research and social media for the news and gossip site. After two months, she moved to an unpaid internship at Flavorpill, an online cultural guide.
The knowledge she gained at those places, she said, was crucial to her landing a $35,000-a-year job as social media coordinator at Sterling Publishing. ''More than just the individual tasks that I did, it was being in a great company culture and meeting a lot of people,'' she said, noting that she was able to work without pay partly because she stayed at the home of her boyfriend's parents.
Xuedan Wang, known as Diana, did not have such a positive experience. Ms. Wang, who graduated from Ohio State in 2010, interned at Harper's Bazaar, working 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. overseeing eight other unpaid interns who ran around Manhattan picking up items from various fashion houses and showrooms.
She sued the fashion magazine in February, accusing it of minimum wage violations.
''Harper's Bazaar was my favorite magazine growing up. I was dazzled that I was going to be working there,'' she said. ''But it was real grunt work, lugging things around.''
Hearst Magazines, which owns Harper's Bazaar, said its internship programs enhanced students' educational experience and fully complied with the law.
Some people end up on an internship treadmill. Joyce Lee, who received a film degree from Wesleyan in 2010, moved to Los Angeles and did six unpaid internships, including one for Scott Rudin, a top Hollywood and Broadway producer.
Her duties included reading scripts and picking up the mail. To pay her rent, she worked at a coffee shop and handed out fliers for a taxi company.
''Scott Rudin is made of money,'' she said. ''I don't think it would be so hard for him to pay five interns the minimum wage.''
A spokesman for Mr. Rudin said he could not be reached for comment.
Ms. Lee, who is now in New York making her own film and supporting herself by again working at a coffee shop, said interns deserved better.
''If I ever become a famous filmmaker,'' she said, ''I promise I will pay my interns.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Glatt, 40, above, sued Fox Searchlight Pictures for minimum wage violations for unpaid work he performed for the film ''Black Swan.'' Melissa Reyes, left, a Marist College graduate, quit an unpaid internship at the fashion house Diane von Furstenberg after doing little more than cleaning closets and fetching lunches. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (97%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (57%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (57%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



240 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Never Mind Europe. Worry About India.

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: If India's slowdown continues, another generation of millions will be trapped in extreme penury and want. 

 BODY:
"The economic slowdown in India is one of the world's biggest economic stories," even though it has not commanded much attention in the United States, Tyler Cowen writes in The New York Times. 
"What is disturbing is that much of the decline in the growth rate is distributed unevenly, with the greatest burden falling on the poor," he writes. "If the slower rate continues or worsens, many millions of Indians, for another generation, will fail to rise above extreme penury and want. The problems of the euro zone are a pittance by comparison." 
China commands more attention, but Scott B. Sumner, the Bentley College economist, has pointed out it is India that is likely to end up as the world's largest economy by the next century. China's population is likely to peak relatively soon while India's will continue to grow, so under even modestly optimistic projections the Indian economy will be No. 1 in terms of total size.
India also is a potential force for energizing the economies of Bangladesh, Nepal and, perhaps someday, Pakistan and Myanmar. The losses from a poorer India go far beyond the country's borders; furthermore, the wealthier India becomes, the stronger the allure of democracy in the region. 
Read the full article here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EURO ZONE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (90%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



241 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(On Par)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; golf

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Pitch and Putt and Behold the Glory

BYLINE: CHRIS SANTELLA


HIGHLIGHT: On May 1, golfers in southern Oregon lined up for the privilege of paying $100 for a round on a new par-3 course. 

 BODY:
BANDON, Ore. - On Tuesday, more than 150 golfers lined up to plunk down $100 to play a 13-hole par-3 golf course called Bandon Preserve, at the Bandon Dunes Golf Resort on the coast of southern Oregon.
Pay $100 for a par-3 course?
Not taken completely seriously, par-3 courses are a frequently overlooked part of the golf world. The holes are generally under 200 yards, and the greens can usually be reached by players of modest ability in one shot. Par-3 layouts are not usually sanctioned by the United States Golf Association and hence need not adhere to particular rules. Some courses might have 9 or 18 holes, though they are almost as likely to have 6-, 10- and 12-hole layouts.
Par-3 courses are often perceived as practice areas, an extension of the driving range, and somehow not quite "real golf."
"If you were to review every par-3 course in America, most would fall into the 'rudimentary' category," said Ron Whitten, Golf Digest's architecture editor. "However, the same can be said for most regulation golf courses. Par-3s play an important role. They are the sandlots of golf, where people can go to build a passion for the game."
The first known par-3 course opened in Portsmouth, England, in 1914, primarily as a diversion for vacationers. Short courses gained some competitive lan in 1933 with the launch of the Professional Short Course Championship, now known as the British Par 3 Championship. Whitten said par-3 courses began appearing in greater numbers after World War II, partly because of the architect Geoffrey Cornish, who built many short layouts in the United States, Canada and Europe. "With a little luck, beginners could hit some greens, maybe even make some birdies," Whitten said.
Irish golfers also advanced the cause of short courses, forming the Pitch and Putt Union of Ireland in 1960 to govern competitive events.
Drew Rogers, a golf course architect in Toledo, Ohio, said he played par-3s regularly as he was learning the game.
"My mom would drop me off and say, 'Here's 10 bucks, I'll get you in three hours, have fun,' " he said. "Sometimes, you'd have to search hard to find a guy that you could pay. The holes were pretty pedestrian and didn't have much in the way of features. The greens were all identical circles, usually crowned, and they were often lighted for night play. Not much effort was ever put into their creation or their maintenance. It was always fun to play the par-3s, but I wouldn't label my experiences then as anything too special."
But although the image of par-3 courses is decidedly downscale, they need not be ugly or unchallenging. The par-3 course at Augusta National Golf Club has holes that replicate some of the greens and approach shots of the famed site of the Masters. The par-3 tournament held the day before the Masters has been televised in recent years, helping to elevate the status of par-3 golf, Whitten said. There is also a par-3 course at San Francisco's Olympic Club, where the United States Open will be held in June.
Fine public par-3 courses can be found along the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail in Alabama, at Monarch Dunes in Southern California, and at Treetops Resort in northern Michigan.
There is reason to think par-3 courses will gain popularity. First, there is the economics: short courses do not require as much land, and the holes are cheaper to build and maintain. Other trends also favor short courses.
"People have less time for golf, and you can get around a par-3 in just an hour and a half," said Mike Keiser, the owner of Bandon Dunes Golf Resort, which features four regulation courses. "And baby-boomer golfers are getting older. Many of our clients used to play 36 holes a day for several days. Bandon is a walking-only facility, and some of these players simply can't walk 36 anymore.
"When I mentioned to some regulars that I was considering a par-3 course - a memorable par-3 course - to a man, they said, 'Hurry up and build it.' "
Bill Coore, who designed Bandon Preserve with the two-time Masters champion Ben Crenshaw, said they approached the design of the course the same way they would approach a full-length course.
"No different design tenets come into play," Coore said. "I've always felt that short par-3 holes can be some of the finest holes in golf. They negate the need for strength. An 18- or 20-handicap player can hit a shot that's as good or better than the shot a tour player can hit. Par-3s balance the playing field, and that makes things fun."
The 13 holes at Bandon Preserve range from roughly 80 to 175 yards, and they unfold on undulating land that slopes gradually to the Pacific Ocean. The fescue turf, the shape and speed of the greens, and the bunkering are all in keeping with the look and feel of Bandon's long courses.
"Our directive was to build the best holes we could find on the available land, holes that would fit in on the other courses," Coore said. He added: "I don't think Bandon Preserve will be perceived as second-class golf. Even the little 78-yard eighth hole will hold its head up. 'I may be little,' it might say, 'but I'm in your face.' "

        
A Conversation With Arnold Palmer About Golf Clubs
        
Excuses Spring Eternal, but Not in Fair Weather
        
Under New Ownership, Blue Monster Is Set for Renovation
        
Donald Is Seeking Validation in Winning Majors, Not Money
        
A Teeing Team Akin to Twins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESORTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Golf; Bandon (Ore)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (52%) OREGON, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (77%); CANADA (77%); ENGLAND (69%) Bandon (Ore)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



242 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Round-Trip Tickets for Chen Could Upgrade U.S.-China Relations

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: The China scholar Orville Schell suggests that Beijing might do well to offer assurances to the human rights lawyer Chen Guangcheng that he and his family will be able to return home after he goes abroad for legal studies. Such a gesture would be welcomed by Washington and a possible boon to U.S.-China relations. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - The status of the Chinese human rights lawyer Chen Guangcheng remains somewhat fluid, as Beijing and Washington try to negotiate an elegant exit from some rather inelegant diplomatic wrangling over the past two weeks.
It is now presumed that Mr. Chen, 40, has fully and finally changed his mind about staying in China. Instead, he will most likely head to the United States to pursue a formal legal education. The Chinese government has pledged to allow Mr. Chen to depart the mainland with his wife and two children.
A self-taught lawyer who is blind, Mr. Chen has been offered a fellowship at New York University, according to Jerome A. Cohen, a New York lawyer who has been advising Mr. Chen, as Jane Perlez and Michael Wines have reported from Beijing. 
Details of the structured settlement between Beijing and Washington have not been disclosed; its parameters are likely to be "codified" through public statements from both sides. 
"One piece of the forming puzzle back in Beijing that is still missing is a Chinese statement to the effect that, if he goes abroad to study, Mr. Chen and his family will still be welcome to come back home for visits, just like any other normal Chinese citizens," said the respected China scholar Orville Schell, director of the Asia Society's Center on U.S.-China Relations. 
"Coming right now, such a statement would go a long way to evincing both China's reasonableness and self-confidence in dealing fairly with such contentious issues as this one," Mr. Schell said in an e-mail.
"Moreover, such a statement would also most certainly be welcomed (and probably reciprocated) by the U.S. State Department and the White House as a sign that the U.S. and China are, at last, (just as President Hu Jintao has hoped) reaching new levels of collaborative problem-solving ability.
"What is more, it would also greatly allay criticism of China here in the U.S."
In recent days, two high-profile former dissidents offered accounts in The Times of their own difficult decisions to leave China.
Wei Jingsheng, released in 1997, was once one of China's most famous prisoners of conscience, as my colleague Andrew Jacobs reports. 
But he "sank into relative obscurity" after Beijing let him go, Andrew writes. 
"Mr. Wei, who now struggles to support himself through private donations, government grants and speaking engagements, said he longed for those first few months after his arrival when he was honored by United States senators and traveled to Europe on all-expense-paid lecture tours." 
In an op-ed written last week just as Mr. Chen's deal was taking shape, Mr. Wei raised an alarm about Beijing's fidelity and its intentions, using himself as a case study. His piece carried the headline, "Don't Believe China's Promises."
In my time, the Communist Party kept its promise for as long as one year because human rights were directly linked with trade. Now that such international pressure does not exist, the party no longer feels the need to keep its word. The Chinese leadership does not fear the United States government; it only fears the loss of its power.
Human rights have been overpowered by economic interests; the cause is as hopeless as that of the big United States trade deficit with China. With the loss of any viable economic means to pressure and penalize the Chinese Communist Party, one has to ask: On what basis does America believe that the Chinese government will keep the promises it makes?
The April after Mr. Wei's release, Wang Dan, a leader of the Tiananmen pro-democracy demonstrations in 1989, touched down in Detroit as part of his "medical parole" to the United States. The coded language was clear to everyone, and he soon became a graduate student at Harvard.
"Today, Mr. Chen's story reminds me of my own," Mr. Wang Mr. Wang writes in an op-ed published the same day as Mr. Wei's piece.
"In recent years, his wife, son and daughter have sacrificed their ability to lead normal lives as they support his struggle. They have lived in fear every day. Now they may have an opportunity to leave for the United States and lead a secure and peaceful life."
He has been in exile for the past 14 years - unable, like Mr. Wei, to return to China.
"Although I very much would like to return, I have no regrets about my time here," Mr. Wang said, adding that he has found "many ways to exert influence in China from abroad."
He said he lectures and publishes about China regularly, with his work being seen back home through the Internet and social media, especially the Twitter-like service called Weibo.
And of Mr. Chen, the latest would-be traveler, Mr. Wang says: "I look forward to seeing him in America." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); LEGAL EDUCATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CHILDREN (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CASE STUDIES (66%); POLITICS (62%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%) Chen Guangcheng; Cohen, Jerome A; Hu Jintao; Schell, Orville; Wang Dan; Wei Jingsheng; Chinese-Americans; Human Rights and Human Rights Violations; Scholarships and Fellowships; United States Politics and Government; Asia Society; State Department; Twitter; Beijing (China); China; Detroit (Mich); United States

ORGANIZATION: Asia Society; State Department; Twitter

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%) Chen Guangcheng; Cohen, Jerome A; Hu Jintao; Schell, Orville; Wang Dan; Wei Jingsheng

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); HONG KONG (92%) Beijing (China); China; Detroit (Mich); United States

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012



243 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Do as I Do, Not as I Say

BYLINE: T. M. LUHRMANN


HIGHLIGHT: If Democrats want to reach more evangelical voters, they should use a political language that evangelicals can hear. 

 BODY:
Stanford, Calif.
IT'S election season, and once again Democrats are flummoxed by evangelical voters. They think that "those people" vote against their own self-interest. They cannot believe that same-sex marriage matters so much to so many people. They don't get why Obamacare is controversial. To them, evangelicals don't make sense.
That's because evangelicals and secular liberals (the most puzzled Democrats) think about life - and therefore politics - in such utterly different ways.
If you want to understand how evangelicals conceive of their political life, you need to understand how they think about God. I am an anthropologist, and for the last 10 years I have been doing research on charismatic evangelical spirituality - the kind of Christianity in which people expect to have a personal relationship with God. They talk to God, and in some way or another, they expect that God will talk back. This is a lot of people. In 2006, the Pew Forum reported that 23 percent of Americans embraced this kind of "renewalist" Christianity and that 26 percent said they had received a direct revelation from God.
What someone believes is important to these Christians, but what really matters is becoming a better person. As I listened in church and participated in prayer groups, I saw that when people prayed, they imagined themselves in conversation with God. They do not, of course, think that God is imaginary, but they think that humans need to use their imagination to understand a God so much bigger and better than what they know from ordinary life. They imagine God as wiser and kinder than any human they know, and then they try to become the person they would be if they were always aware of being in God's presence, even when the kids fuss and the train runs late.

This is tough to do. Christians understand that it is hard and so they practice being with God in many different ways. They set themselves tasks - ministering in jail, feeding the homeless, helping to set up the church on Sunday morning - so that they can grow through the experience of service. They care about the task, of course, but even more they care about becoming a person of God through doing the task.
Some evangelicals think about this process as spiritual formation, some talk about it as redemption, others as salvation. Whatever you call it, the point is that the person is changing for the better and that the process is long, slow and hard.
This completely changes the way someone thinks about politics.
When secular liberals vote, they think about the outcome of a political choice. They think about consequences. Secular liberals want to create the social conditions that allow everyday people, behaving the way ordinary people behave, to have fewer bad outcomes.
When evangelicals vote, they think more immediately about what kind of person they are trying to become - what humans could and should be, rather than who they are. From this perspective, the problem with government is that it steps in when people fall short. Rick Santorum won praise by saying (as he did during the Values Voters Summit in 2010), "Go into the neighborhoods in America where there is a lack of virtue and what will you find? Two things. You will find no families, no mothers and fathers living together in marriage. And you will find government everywhere: police, social service agencies. Why? Because without faith, family and virtue, government takes over." This perspective emphasizes developing individual virtue from within - not changing social conditions from without.
If Democrats want to reach more evangelical voters, they should use a political language that evangelicals can hear. They should talk about the kind of people we are aiming to be and about the transformational journey that any choice will take us on. They should talk about how we can grow in compassion and care. They could talk about the way their policy interventions will allow those who receive them to become better people and how those of us who support them will better ourselves as we reach out in love. They could describe health care reform as a response to suffering, not as a solution to an economic problem.
To be sure, they won't connect to every evangelical. But the good news for secular liberals is that evangelicals are smarter and more varied than many liberals realize. I met doctors, scientists and professors at the churches where I studied. They cared about social justice. They cared about the poor. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, many of them got into their cars and drove to New Orleans. This is a reachable population, and back in 2008, a quarter of white evangelicals voted for Mr. Obama. Democrats could speak to evangelicals more effectively if they talked about how we could develop our moral character together as we work to rebuild our country.
T. M. Luhrmann, a professor of anthropology at Stanford, is the author of "When God Talks Back: Understanding the American Evangelical Relationship With God."

        
Other Stops
        
Cultural Liberalism Is Not Enough
        
'Mr. Roboto' and the Bible Belt
        
How to Get the Rich to Share the Marbles
        
The First Principles of Rick Santorum

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); MARRIAGE (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%) Democrats; evangelicals; Obama, Barack; Christians and Christianity; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



244 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: 'Avengers' Vanquish Box-Office Rivals

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Sorry, Harry. ''The Avengers'' have crushed you.
In a strong start to Hollywood's summer movie season the superhero team in ''Marvel's The Avengers'' took in about $200.3 million at North American theaters over the weekend, according to Walt Disney Studios, which released the film. That No. 1 result easily smashed what the movie industry considers the record, set last summer by ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,'' for the biggest opening weekend of all time. Its total was $169.2 million if you don't account for inflation, or about $172 million if you do.
''The Avengers'' -- about a star squad of Marvel superheroes, including Iron Man, the Hulk, Thor, Captain America and Black Widow -- is now on track to take in over $1 billion at the global box office, analysts estimate. This 3-D picture, directed by Joss Whedon (until now best known for creating ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer''), has already sold about $441.5 million in tickets overseas and has yet to open in important markets like Japan. 
''I'm running low on double takes,'' Dave Hollis, executive vice president for distribution at Disney, said on Sunday morning. ''As the numbers came in, we kept thinking, 'Can these numbers possibly be right?' ''
Marvel Studios, a division of the Walt Disney Company, spent about $220 million to make the film and at least another $100 million on global marketing. The film played at 4,349 locations in North America, and 52 percent of its domestic ticket sales came from 3-D showings, which cost $3 to $5 more than standard screenings. About 60 percent of the audience was male, Mr. Hollis said.
''Euphoric'' was the only way to describe theater chains, some of which reported that their ticket-selling systems became overwhelmed with demand. ''Imax had one big issue: We ran out of seats to sell,'' Greg Foster, president of Imax Filmed Entertainment, the programming division of the large-format film company, wrote in an e-mail on Sunday morning.
No other movie came close to ''The Avengers'' over the weekend. ''Think Like a Man'' (Sony) was second, taking in about $8 million for a three-week total of $73 million, according to Hollywood.com, which compiles box-office data. ''The Hunger Games'' (Lionsgate) took in about $5.7 million in third place, lifting its seven-week total to $380.7 million.
''The Lucky One'' (Warner Brothers) was fourth, taking in $5.5 million for a three-week total of $47.9 million, and ''The Pirates! Band of Misfits'' (Sony) was fifth, selling about $5.4 million in tickets for a two-week total of $18.6 million.
Several factors contributed to the enormous audience interest in ''The Avengers,'' starting with its quality. The movie, stuffed to the brim with special effects, has been popular with most critics, with the review-aggregation site RottenTomatoes.com rating it at 94 percent on the ''fresh'' scale. Audiences in exit polls gave the film a rare A-plus score, an indication that word-of-mouth was strong. The Hulk, played this time by Mark Ruffalo, has received particularly high marks.
''People come to the movies to see giant spectacles, but what really makes the difference is over-delivering on expectations,'' said Kevin Feige, a producer of ''The Avengers'' and president of Marvel Studios. ''Maybe it's delivering a movie that is funnier than people expected or one that moves them a little bit more than they expected. Joss has accomplished that.''
Marvel also expertly orchestrated one of the longest marketing teases in Hollywood history. The studio planted the seeds for an all-star ''Avengers'' movie in 2008 with the release of ''Iron Man,'' played by Robert Downey Jr. Then a thunder god with a magic hammer, Thor (Chris Hemsworth), got his own movie, followed by Captain America (Chris Evans). Iron Man arrived with a sequel. All were worldwide hits.
This strategy, largely devised by Mr. Feige and mirroring how Marvel historically approached the publication of its comics, carried enormous risk. If even one of those prior films had flopped, ''The Avengers'' -- envisioned as a multifilm series -- would have been thrown into question.
More Marvel is on the way. Sony will release ''The Amazing Spider-Man'' in July. (Sony holds those rights in a long-standing deal that predates Disney's purchase of Marvel.) ''Iron Man 3'' is scheduled for next May, with ''Thor 2'' following in November of next year. A sequel to ''Captain America: The First Avenger'' is planned for April 2014.
The turnout for ''The Avengers'' is being called a record by the movie industry even though independently verified box-office data is available going back only about 30 years. That means inflation cannot be taken into account when measuring the success of old blockbusters like ''Gone With the Wind.''
Still, it marks an important win for Disney, which has struggled mightily at the box office in recent months. The studio's last major release was ''John Carter,'' a failed science-fiction epic that prompted Disney to take a $200 million write-down. The company fired its movie chairman last month and has not yet announced a successor.
Hollywood will now try to keep the ''Avengers'' momentum going by releasing blockbusters every weekend until Labor Day, a season that typically accounts for 40 percent of the industry's annual ticket sales. It's a summer stuffed with promising new entries, like ''Snow White and the Huntsman,'' and franchises: the return of Will Smith in ''Men in Black III,'' ''The Dark Knight Rises,'' ''Ice Age: Continental Drift.''
One window for armchair box-office analysts to watch in particular is Aug. 3, when two major releases will go after the same audience: ''The Bourne Legacy,'' the first film in that series without Matt Damon, and ''Total Recall.''
The movie industry is trying hard to reverse four consecutive summers of declining attendance. Ticket sales for the summer period last year totaled $4.38 billion; attendance was about 543 million, the lowest tally since 1997. This year has been strong so far, with ticket sales up 16 percent to $3.6 billion and attendance up 18 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scarlett Johansson in ''Marvel's The Avengers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARVEL STUDIOS AND PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%)

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



245 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be reported this week will include consumer credit for March (Monday); wholesale trade inventories for March (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, the trade deficit for March and import prices for Aprilthe Producer Price Index for April and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for May (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include Tyson Foods and Electronic Arts (Monday); DirecTV, Molson Coors, Wendy's and Disney (Tuesday); Accretive Health, AOL, Macy's, Cisco Systems and News Corporation (Wednesday); and Kohl's, MBIA and Nordstrom (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a field hearing in Chicago about the Federal Housing Finance Agency's Real Estate Owned pilot program.
OVERSEAS On Thursday, the Bank of England will issue a decision about interest rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (88%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); PRODUCER PRICES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (83%); TYSON FOODS INC (57%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (57%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (57%); ACCRETIVE HEALTH INC (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); TSN (NYSE) (57%); TAP (NYSE) (57%); EA (NASDAQ) (57%); AH (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



246 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: No Longer Just 'Adult-Onset'

 BODY:
A study of diabetes in overweight and obese youngsters bears an ominous warning about future health care trends in this country. It found that Type 2 diabetes, a new scourge among young people, progresses faster and is harder to treat in youngsters than in adults. The toll on their health as they grow older could be devastating. 
These findings provide more evidence of why the country must get the obesity epidemic under control -- to improve health and to curb soaring health care costs.
Only two decades ago Type 2 diabetes was called ''adult-onset diabetes'' because it was seldom found in young people, who suffered primarily from Type 1, in which the patient's immune system destroys cells that make insulin, a hormone needed to control blood sugar levels. Type 2 -- thought to be brought on by obesity and inactivity in many people -- has increased alarmingly and accounts for almost a fifth of newly diagnosed cases in young people.
Obesity increases the risk of many chronic diseases. And some 17 percent of American children from age 2 to 19 are now considered obese, roughly half the rate of obesity among adults.
The new study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine, tested three ways to attain durable control of blood sugar in youngsters between the ages of 10 and 17. None worked very well. Almost half of the 699 youngsters had to add daily shots of insulin within a few years to lower their blood sugar. Metformin, the standard drug used to treat Type 2 diabetes in children, failed to control blood sugar in more than half of the children. When lifestyle changes, including one-on-one counseling on how to lead a healthy life, were added to metformin, the results were only marginally better.
When a second drug was added, the results were significantly better. But the two-drug treatment still failed in 39 percent of the recipients, and the added drug, Avandia, has been linked to heart attacks and strokes in adults.
The findings are especially ominous because poorly controlled diabetes can lead to heart disease, stroke, blindness, amputations and kidney failure. The longer one has the disease, the greater the risk, so the fact that children are starting so young bodes ill for their futures.
Some experts suggest that young patients at risk of diabetes need to be detected earlier and treated more aggressively. But the long-term goal should be prevention of obesity and of diabetes.
Congressional Republicans, meanwhile, are bent on dismantling health care reforms that could greatly assist in curbing the obesity epidemic. The Republican-dominated House last month narrowly passed a bill that would eliminate the Prevention and Public Health Fund, established under the reform law, in part to pay for lowering the interest rate on subsidized student loans for a year.
The fund is already providing grants to state and local governments to help pay for programs to fight obesity and prevent chronic diseases, including diabetes, in the community, the workplace and among minority groups that have high rates of both obesity and diabetes. Killing off this program would be hugely costly to Americans' health, and future health care costs. There is no explanation for this move, except for the usual anti-health care reform demagogy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (94%); OBESITY (93%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); STROKES (78%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BARIATRICS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (76%); BLINDNESS (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



247 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Stock Trading Is Still Falling After '08 Crisis

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
Even though American stocks have doubled in price in the last three years, investors and traders large and small keep giving the market the cold shoulder.
Trading in the United States stock market has not only failed to recover since the 2008 financial crisis, it has continued to fall. In April, the average daily trades in American stocks on all exchanges stood at nearly half of its peak in 2008: 6.5 billion compared with 12.1 billion, according to Credit Suisse Trading Strategy.
The decline stands in marked contrast to past economic recoveries, when Americans regained their taste for stock trading within two years of economic shocks in 1987 and 2001.
This time around, the stock market has many more players, including high-speed trading firms, which have recently come to account for over half of all stock market activity. But even they, like all other major groups, have recently been doing less overall trading. 
''When you keep in mind recent history, this is kind of uncharted territory,'' said Justin Schack, an analyst at Rosenblatt Securities.
Many market experts say the biggest reason for the shrinking volume is that traders and investors remain leery that the economy will suddenly turn on them in the wake of the financial crisis, the wild swings in stock prices and the European debt troubles.
Investors and financial industry professionals are struggling to understand what the decline could mean, particularly if it continues. Less rapid trading by short-term speculators could be a good thing for buy-and-hold investors tired of being burned by the market. But the decline could also signal a broader turn away from the domestic stock market by investors who want to hold less of their nest eggs in stocks and by companies that opt for raising capital in bond markets instead of issuing shares.
''My expectation was that we would see people go back to the stock market,'' said Charles Rotblut, a vice president of the American Association of Individual Investors. ''It remains to be seen whether there will be a core group of people that is just turned off of the stock markets altogether.''
The New York-based system of stock trading has been showing the strain of the slowdown. The New York Stock Exchange said last week that trading in the first quarter fell 23 percent from a year earlier. A few days earlier, Nasdaq announced that its first-quarter revenues from stock trading in the United States were down 7 percent from a year ago. Both exchange companies have aggressively moved to capture other businesses that do not rely on stock trading, but they have also embarked on cost-cutting programs.
''We can't be certain as to when or whether the volume is going to recover,'' said Lee Shavel, chief financial officer at the Nasdaq OMX Group.
The recent slowdown has occurred not only on the nation's 13 official exchanges and trading platforms. Dozens of off-exchange operations have captured a larger proportion of all stock trades in recent years, but even their overall trading numbers have been trending down.
The decline in trading has not sent the prices of stocks down. Though there is less buying and selling, the people who have remained in the market are willing to pay higher prices, driving the value of the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up 102 percent since the market hit a bottom in the spring of 2009.
But the recent falloff in trading is striking because data from the New York Stock Exchange shows that volumes have not declined for three consecutive years in records going back to 1960. For an explanation of the lower trading volumes, many market-watchers have looked to the high-speed traders, who use computers algorithms to take advantage of small price discrepancies and who have accounted for an increasing share of all trading in recent years.
These firms have been curtailed slightly by recent regulations aimed at making the markets less volatile. But more fundamentally, industry participants say high-speed traders rely on transacting with slower, traditional traders like retail investors and mutual funds. When those groups pull back, the high-speed firms have little choice but to scale back as well.
''On a typical trade, two high-frequency trading firms will not trade against each other,'' said Manoj Narang. His New Jersey high-speed trading firm, Tradeworx, is still growing, he said, but for most established firms, if ordinary investors ''don't want to trade, there's really simply nothing for us to do.''
Among retail investors, the most reliable source of trading volume has been the day traders who were given access to cheaper trading by discount brokers like E*Trade and TD Ameritrade.
Steve Quirk, a senior vice president at TD Ameritrade, said these investors were still scarred by the financial crisis in 2008-9, which followed the bursting of the Internet bubble in 2001. More recently, share prices have steadily risen but with jarring short-term reversals.
Stock trading now accounts for 16 percent fewer customer trades at TD Ameritrade than it did in 2009. ''We've had instances where it looked like things were clearing up,'' said Mr. Quirk. The company's clients in some recent months tiptoed back into stocks, he said, ''but then they rather surprisingly just quit.'' Among the broader population, the most common investment in stocks has been through mutual funds. The most conspicuous sign that these investors have grown disenchanted with American stocks has been the flow of money out of domestic stock mutual funds, which were drained of more than $400 billion since the start of 2008, compared with an inflow of $52 billion in the four years before that, according to the Investment Company Institute. The outflow has continued into 2012.
The shift is partly attributable to the growing number of seniors moving from stocks to bonds, which is typical in retirement. But surveys by the institute have shown that investors young and old have grown less willing to invest in domestic stocks, even with interest rates on bonds at record lows in recent years.
Some of this money has flowed into increasingly popular exchange-traded funds, which are baskets of assets that trade like stocks. But even more has flowed into bonds. Some financial advisers worry that Americans preparing for retirement are giving up the investment gains that are possible in stocks and ignoring the possible future risks in bonds.
''We worry that our investors are trading one form of risk for another,'' said Francis M. Kinniry Jr., a senior investment strategist at Vanguard.
The departure of long-term investors does not always lead to lower trading volumes. When people are pulling money out it can lead to spikes in trading, as it did in August when the European debt crisis heated up. But when long-term players exit the market it can lead to a reduction in trading over time, which has many market participants watching the behavior of ordinary Americans like Fred Lines, a retired electrical contractor who lives on Long Island.
Mr. Lines, who is 75, said he used to trade stocks regularly, and had most of his money in stocks even after retiring and many of his peers pulled back. He started to retreat after the demise of the investment bank Bear Stearns in 2008 and has continued to retreat, most recently in December when he shifted funds from preferred stocks in blue-chip companies to corporate bonds. The recent positive returns have not dispelled his fears that the market will suddenly turn on him.
''If it goes up, I know it's going to go down again,'' Mr. Lines said. ''I used to just buy the stock and hold it -- after a few years it was always up. Now you can't trust that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange. Investors have pulled away from stocks and instead are favoring bonds, despite low interest rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) CHART: Volumes Decline: United States equity market volumes have generally declined over the past three years, since reaching a monthly peak in March 2009. (Sources: Credit Suisse Trading Strategy
 BATS Global Markets) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEW ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



248 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CAMPAIGN STOPS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Do as I Do, Not as I Say

BYLINE: By T. M. LUHRMANN. 
T. M. Luhrmann, a professor of anthropology at Stanford, is the author of ''When God Talks Back: Understanding the American Evangelical Relationship With God.''

 BODY:
Stanford, Calif.
IT'S election season, and once again Democrats are flummoxed by evangelical voters. They think that ''those people'' vote against their own self-interest. They cannot believe that same-sex marriage matters so much to so many people. They don't get why Obamacare is controversial. To them, evangelicals don't make sense.
That's because evangelicals and secular liberals (the most puzzled Democrats) think about life - and therefore politics - in such utterly different ways. 
If you want to understand how evangelicals conceive of their political life, you need to understand how they think about God. I am an anthropologist, and for the last 10 years I have been doing research on charismatic evangelical spirituality - the kind of Christianity in which people expect to have a personal relationship with God. They talk to God, and in some way or another, they expect that God will talk back. This is a lot of people. In 2006, the Pew Forum reported that 23 percent of Americans embraced this kind of ''renewalist'' Christianity and that 26 percent said they had received a direct revelation from God.
What someone believes is important to these Christians, but what really matters is becoming a better person. As I listened in church and participated in prayer groups, I saw that when people prayed, they imagined themselves in conversation with God. They do not, of course, think that God is imaginary, but they think that humans need to use their imagination to understand a God so much bigger and better than what they know from ordinary life. They imagine God as wiser and kinder than any human they know, and then they try to become the person they would be if they were always aware of being in God's presence, even when the kids fuss and the train runs late. This is tough to do. Christians understand that it is hard and so they practice being with God in many different ways. They set themselves tasks - ministering in jail, feeding the homeless, helping to set up the church on Sunday morning - so that they can grow through the experience of service. They care about the task, of course, but even more they care about becoming a person of God through doing the task.
Some evangelicals think about this process as spiritual formation, some talk about it as redemption, others as salvation. Whatever you call it, the point is that the person is changing for the better and that the process is long, slow and hard.
This completely changes the way someone thinks about politics.
When secular liberals vote, they think about the outcome of a political choice. They think about consequences. Secular liberals want to create the social conditions that allow everyday people, behaving the way ordinary people behave, to have fewer bad outcomes.
When evangelicals vote, they think more immediately about what kind of person they are trying to become - what humans could and should be, rather than who they are. From this perspective, the problem with government is that it steps in when people fall short. Rick Santorum won praise by saying (as he did during the Values Voters Summit in 2010), ''Go into the neighborhoods in America where there is a lack of virtue and what will you find? Two things. You will find no families, no mothers and fathers living together in marriage. And you will find government everywhere: police, social service agencies. Why? Because without faith, family and virtue, government takes over.'' This perspective emphasizes developing individual virtue from within - not changing social conditions from without.
If Democrats want to reach more evangelical voters, they should use a political language that evangelicals can hear. They should talk about the kind of people we are aiming to be and about the transformational journey that any choice will take us on. They should talk about how we can grow in compassion and care. They could talk about the way their policy interventions will allow those who receive them to become better people and how those of us who support them will better ourselves as we reach out in love. They could describe health care reform as a response to suffering, not as a solution to an economic problem.
To be sure, they won't connect to every evangelical. But the good news for secular liberals is that evangelicals are smarter and more varied than many liberals realize. I met doctors, scientists and professors at the churches where I studied. They cared about social justice. They cared about the poor. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, many of them got into their cars and drove to New Orleans. This is a reachable population, and back in 2008, a quarter of white evangelicals voted for Mr. Obama. Democrats could speak to evangelicals more effectively if they talked about how we could develop our moral character together as we work to rebuild our country.
T. M. Luhrmann, a professor of anthropology at Stanford, is the author of ''When God Talks Back: Understanding the American Evangelical Relationship With God.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANNA PARINI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%); MARRIAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



249 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: When to Believe the Buzz

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM and NICOLE PERLROTH

 BODY:
When Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion last month, it raised a lot of eyebrows -- and questions about which buzzed-about young start-ups might be on track for similar success.
There is certainly no shortage of companies to choose from.
The start-up scene is on fire, flooded with apps and services that are attracting users and backing from venture capitalists. But it can be hard to work out which companies are just at the height of their hype cycle, and which are worthy 0f the kind of attention Instagram was receiving when Facebook came calling.
Here is an inherently incomplete list of companies, any one of which could become the next hit or potential hit -- whether because it has had explosive user growth, is attracting serious investors or a new demographic, or just because it has an unusual idea that seems to be taking off.
Of course, any of these start-ups could become the next Pets.com. But one of them could also be the next big thing. 
Pinterest
Two years after it hit the Web, Pinterest, a kind of virtual pinboard, is already the third-most-popular social media site, after Facebook and Twitter. Users can ''pin'' images they find around the Web -- of a wedding dress, say, or a tasty-looking dish -- so that the images appear on their Pinterest pages. Other users can then click to visit the source of the image. Pinterest still has a business model to figure out, but investors are intrigued by the site's demographics: women, who are big online shoppers, account for 85 percent of its traffic.
Pinterest is on the verge of raising cash in a deal that would value it at more than $1 billion, according to people close to the company. Bill Nguyen, founder of Color Labs, which makes an app for sharing photos and video, noted that Pinterest was building a network of people organized by shared interests, rather than social connections. ''That's originally what we were trying to build, and it's very powerful,'' he said. ''They could be as valuable as any tech company.''
Square
This mobile payments company is barely three years old and already has tens of thousands of merchants swiping credit cards using its little white attachment for cellphones and tablets. Jack Dorsey, a founder of Square, was also one of the founders of Twitter.
Square is on track to ring up $5 billion in payments this year, and its numbers have venture capitalists scrambling to get their wallets out. Less than a year after raising $100 million in financing, the company is said to be raising a $250 million round that could nudge its valuation as high as $4 billion.
Airtime
Not much is known about the latest venture from Sean Parker and Shawn Fanning, co-founders of Napster, the infamous music-sharing service that shut down in 2001. The two men referred to their new company as a video-sharing site during an interview at South by Southwest, but the details are still under wraps.
With the current financing frenzy around video-sharing apps like Viddy and SocialCam, it is clear that Silicon Valley sees video as the next frontier. Airtime has piqued the interest of Adam D'Angelo, a founder of Quora and an early investor in Instagram. ''It could wind up being really, really intriguing,'' he said.
TaskRabbit
It sounds like an unlikely concept -- people letting Internet-sourced strangers rent their spare bedrooms and park in their garages, or relying on them to run errands and perform simple chores. But several fast-rising start-ups are built on the idea that a new economy is being forged around ''collaborative consumption,'' in which people share resources they possess, like extra square footage or time, for a fee.
TaskRabbit, a service that lets people find ''rabbits'' to perform tasks and run errands, is one rising star in this field. Airbnb, which lets people rent out extra bedrooms or entire houses, is already looking like a juggernaut and may give a lift to its peers. Other potential contenders in this category are Skillshare, which lets people teach workshops, and Getaround, for renting cars.
Path
When Path was unveiled in 2010, people scoffed at the idea of a mobile social network that only let users share with a limited number of friends. But as Facebook and Twitter have swelled in size, the appeal of privacy and sharing with an intimate few has begun to look much more attractive -- to users as well as venture capitalists.
Dave Morin, Path's chief executive, has said that more than two million people have signed up for the service. This spring, Path raised $40 million from financiers, pushing the company's value toward $250 million.
Uber
There are lots of taxis in New York City, but outside Manhattan, grabbing one can be hit or miss -- mostly miss. Uber pairs off-duty private car drivers with stranded passengers. The company gives participating drivers iPhones and software that manages passenger pickup requests. Using Uber's smartphone application, users can alert nearby drivers that they need a ride, then monitor a driver's progress on a map.
''It's almost like giving people a super power: Press a button and a black car arrives in two minutes,'' said Shervin Pishevar, an Uber investor at Menlo Ventures.
Uber started in San Francisco but has since spread to eight other cities, including Los Angeles and Boston. The start-up has raised $45 million from a slate of well-known investors, including Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive.
Quora
This question-and-answer Web site is everything Ask Jeeves never was. Questions range from the silly (''Would Ferris Bueller really have been able to hack into his school's computer system?'') to the serious (''What does it feel like to have your spouse die?''). It is not unusual to stumble upon answers from big names. Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers is on Quora, as are Ashton Kutcher and Mark Zuckerberg.
Quora was founded by Mr. D'Angelo and Charlie Cheever, two of Mr. Zuckerberg's early employees at Facebook, who kept that site from crashing under the weight of hundreds of millions of users. The two now face the more intricate challenge of helping Quora grow without sacrificing its smarts and simplicity. Investors are optimistic: The company has raised $11 million from top-tier venture capitalists and is said to be raising more cash at a $400 million valuation.
Dropbox
This file-sharing service solved one of the biggest headaches of our time: How do you get access to files, photos and music across myriad devices?
Dropbox made it possible to store the digital clutter in the cloud instead of having it jam up e-mail in-boxes. It was a simple proposition with huge growth prospects. Last year, the service had 50 million users, up threefold from the year before.
Steve Jobs tried to acquire the start-up in 2009 and, when that failed, introduced Apple's competing iCloud storage service. Google introduced its own take on the idea, Google Drive, just last month. For the time being, Dropbox, and its investors, seem confident that the start-up can go it alone. Last October, it raised $250 million in a fresh round of financing that valued the company at $4 billion -- or four Instagrams.
Pinwheel
At first glance, Pinwheel -- a service that lets a user leave virtual notes that are tied to particular spots on the globe, like the best place to watch a sunset -- may not seem like a sure bet. It is not clear yet whether the service, which is still in invitation-only testing mode, will create excitement beyond the crop of early adopters who are using it.
But its founder, Caterina Fake, has a compelling track record. She was a founder of Flickr, which Yahoo purchased in 2005, and one of the founders of Hunch, a recommendation service, which eBay bought for $80 million last year. Adding to the heat around her latest company is a crop of newly minted competitors, including Wallit and Dabble.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SQUARE: This service is on track to process $5 billion in payments this year through cellphones and tablets. Last month, Sara Selepouchin, an illustrator who sells a housewares line, made use of Square in Philadelphia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
UBER: Through smartphones and software, Uber matches private car drivers with people who are seeking rides. The service started in San Francisco and is now in eight other cities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DROPBOX: Arash Ferdowsi, left, and Drew Houston founded Dropbox, a file-sharing service using cloud computing, which in 2009 attracted the attention of Steve Jobs at Apple. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PATH: A mobile social network that allows sharing with a limited number of friends, Path has more than two million users, and the company behind it recently raised $40 million in financing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNETH JAMES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



250 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Health Costs: Behind the Numbers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''In Hopeful Sign, Health Spending Is Flattening Out'' (front page, April 29):
National health expenditures have indeed hovered near 18 percent of gross domestic product from 2009 to 2012. Unfortunately, decades of health spending trends strongly suggest that the recent slowing won't endure.
Health's share of the economy has alternated between plateaus and jumps since the 1980s. Health care ranged between 13 and 14 percent of the economy for an entire decade (1991 to 2000) before jumping more than two percentage points by 2005, and then another two percentage points by 2010. Earlier plateaus in the mid-1970s and mid-1980s were also followed by steep rises. 
Despite the plateaus and jumps, a look at the 52 years since 1960 shows a disturbingly robust trend. Health's share of G.D.P. rose to 7.2 percent in 1970, from 5.2 percent in 1960; to 9.1 percent in 1980; to 12.3 percent in 1990; to 13.6 percent in 2000; and to about 18 percent in 2009-12.
So while it's good to hope that cost growth might have somehow been contained, it would be better to prepare to address future increases.
ALAN SAGER DEBORAH SOCOLAR Boston, April 30, 2012
The writers are directors of the Health Reform Program at Boston University School of Public Health.
To the Editor:
At first glance, one might applaud the diminished growth of health spending, but the article raises serious questions over the long term about how salutary this slowdown might be.
In mentioning one reason for slowing the growth of health spending, you cite a RAND Corporation study that found that some enrollees of high-deductible plans cut back on some care that ''tended to save money in the long run, like vaccinations.''
But if some people are cutting back on vaccinations, are they also cutting back on screening exams like Pap smears, mammograms or colonoscopies that can either detect cancer or mitigate its consequences? If so, what are or will be the human costs (in addition to the long-term financial ones) of putting off or avoiding those tests?
If one result of the decline of health spending is a commensurate decline in the health status of those who are spending less on their care, we will certainly have nothing to applaud.
AMY LAIKEN Chicago, April 29, 2012
To the Editor:
In addition to the factors cited by experts, other trends may be contributing to the leveling off of health spending.
The shift toward accountable care, whose main impetus is the health reform law, has also resulted in higher levels of integration and alignment of physician practice ownership. Consequently, overhead costs may be reduced.
Moreover, according to the American Medical Association, data released in February indicated that 86 hospital merger or acquisition transactions were consummated in 2011, the highest number in the last decade. The resulting combinations may lead to economies of scale, further reducing systemwide costs.
NEIL DWORKIN Norwalk, Conn., May 1, 2012
The writer is emeritus associate professor of management at Western Connecticut State University, where he taught health policy.
To the Editor:
I don't mean to rain on the parade, but we among the self-employed who pay more than $20,000 a year for health insurance are a bit skeptical of ever seeing the benefits of a bending cost curve. Fine for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and large companies, but small group and individual plans continue to be the most profitable for insurance companies and the most detrimental to efforts to ensure access to coverage.
On the one hand, politicians crow about small business being the primary source of recovery and economic growth, yet they do nothing to remove this tremendous barrier to entrepreneurial market entry. When will we finally accept the rational truth that defining health care as a public good and providing a single-payer solution is the best way simultaneously to ensure population health and entrepreneurial forms of economic growth?
WILLIAM P. MACAUX East Greenwich, R.I., April 29, 2012
To the Editor:
Your article examines many, but not all, possible causes for a slowdown in health spending. One of the possibilities can be summarized as follows:
At least some of the apparently excessive spending in past years may have led to better long-term health for insured patients, thereby reducing the need for expensive care in older age. Detection of such events, which would be separate from accountable care, will require a more detailed study of the medical history of individual subjects.
HERBERT L. MELTZER Hartsdale, N.Y., April 30, 2012
The writer was a research scientist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute, 1950-91.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GAVIN POTENZA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRENDS (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); WRITERS (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (71%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (68%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (66%); COLORECTAL CANCER (66%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (66%); ENDOSCOPY (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



251 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Citing 'Political Instability,' and Vowing Victory, Netanyahu Calls for Early Elections

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Sunday called for early elections, vowing to win a ''renewed mandate'' and ''form the broadest government that is possible'' to ''guarantee the future of the people of Israel in the land of Israel, for eternity.''
''Political instability always leads to extortion and populism that undermine the defense and social economy, and I will not lend a helping hand to an election campaign that will stretch over the course of a year and a half and hurt the country,'' Mr. Netanyahu, 62, said in a brief speech, responding to stirrings in recent weeks among his coalition partners and his opponents. 
''It is better to have a short election campaign of four months that will restore political stability,'' he said.
The speech, delivered at the annual convention of Mr. Netanyahu's right-leaning Likud Party in Tel Aviv, was the prime minister's first public appearance in a week, following the death of his father. But the plan for early elections has been obsessively discussed here for days, and Parliament was expected to dissolve itself on Monday, with the popular vote scheduled for Sept. 4, rather than October 2013.
The official pretext is the court-mandated expiration of the Tal Law, under which vast numbers of ultra-Orthodox Jews were exempted from Israeli Army service; Mr. Netanyahu's coalition government is split over the draft issue, and dissolving it avoids a messy fight and postpones the deadline for rewriting the law.
But analysts have offered myriad theories on Mr. Netanyahu's motivations. Many believe he wants a strong vote of confidence before the presidential elections in the United States, while some speculate he is considering an October strike against Iran's nuclear facilities. Others see more pragmatic explanations for his timing: with sky-high approval ratings and a divided opposition, moving quickly could give the incumbent an extra edge.
''The earlier you go, the less chance the new competitors have to get organized,'' said Peter Y. Medding, a political scientist at the Harman Institute of Contemporary Jewry at Hebrew University.
Recent polls show Likud winning 30 to 32 of the Parliament's 120 seats, nearly twice that of its closest competitor, the leftist Labor Party; several centrist and conservative parties would take anywhere from 10 to 15 seats, according to the surveys.
Right now, the opposition is split among Shelly Yacimovich, who leads Labor and has capitalized on last summer's social protest to make economic inequality her signature issue; Shaul Mofaz, who recently took over the centrist Kadima Party and, as a former defense minister and military chief, has strong security credentials; and Yair Lapid, a popular television host who just formed a new party, Yesh Atid (There is a Future), which focuses on bread-and-butter issues and the question of drafting the religious.
''There's no clear leader and there's no clear agenda,'' Aluf Benn, editor of Haaretz, a daily paper frequently critical of the Netanyahu government, said of the fractured landscape. ''We tend to say the opposition never wins the election, it's the incumbent government that loses the election. I don't see the eagerness to oust him. People feel he is the only one capable of doing the job.''
Tamar Hermann, a senior research fellow at the Israel Democracy Institute who specializes in public opinion, agreed that Mr. Netanyahu is ''right now the only person who can be defined on the grass-roots level as a national leader.'' But Ms. Hermann said his strength is in security and foreign policy, and she expects the campaign to focus more on domestic concerns, including political corruption, public housing, the cost of living and questions of religion and state.
Indeed, at a campaign event on Saturday night in Tal Shahar, north of Jerusalem, Mr. Lapid, 48, barely mentioned the peace process until asked about it by the audience of 120, and said nothing about Iran. Instead, he talked about improving schools, helping young couples buy their first apartments, reducing wait times at emergency rooms, integrating the ultra-Orthodox into society and overhauling government to reduce corruption.
''We forgot that we're not a sector, we are the majority,'' said Mr. Lapid, referring to the political center. ''Everybody thinks that it's just them and their friends. We have to think like the majority.''
Mr. Netanyahu also addressed kitchen-table issues, but he got his biggest cheers when he mentioned the return of the captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, and repeatedly hit the security theme.
''It was only a few years ago that people did not feel safe in this country, and today the situation is different,'' he said, adding, ''Thanks to our activities, the world now has enlisted itself against the Iranian nuclear program, and this pressure will not be lifted until the threat is truly removed.''
Mr. Netanyahu continued, ''We will look for every opportunity to promote true peace with our neighbors, and we will defend our nation's vital interest, just as we have been doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benjamin Netanyahu 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ARMIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



252 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Discount Bus Line Faces Opposition on Sidewalk Pick-Up Sites Near Terminal

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
In the four years since the discount bus line MegaBus has been taking passengers between Manhattan and cities across the East Coast, the company has had a nomadic existence: every time MegaBus finds a new corner to pick up customers, local businesses and landlords complain about the traffic and pollution, and the company is forced to move on.
Its most recent locations on the West Side -- on 41st Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, flanked by the Port Authority Bus Terminal; and along 10th Avenue between 40th and 41st Streets -- would seem to be less objectionable; neither stop blocks a commercial or residential entrance. 
Nonetheless, MegaBus, which developed its reputation for offering double-decker buses that cost the price of a manicure, has worn out its welcome once again.
Rival bus companies, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and Community Board 4 in Manhattan have opposed MegaBus's application to continue to operate there, and have tried to persuade the city's Department of Transportation to relocate the company when its three-month permit expires on Monday.
Patrick J. Foye, the Port Authority's executive director, said bus terminal workers had told him that MegaBus's long lines and traffic had created problems with ''customer safety, pedestrian safety and the safety of our facility.'' He said he planned to meet with MegaBus executives this week to discuss those problems. He added that MegaBus customers used the authority's restrooms and shops without the company's paying rent as other carriers do.
''Economists call it free riding, and I think that's what is going on here,'' he said.
The Port Authority runs the bus terminal but has no control over whether MegaBus uses the sidewalk space near its buildings.
For now, MegaBus may keep its bus stops, said Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for the Transportation Department, ''until we have had an opportunity to review the outcome of the May 16th Community Board 4 meeting and make a long-term determination.''
Shortly after the department granted MegaBus a three-month permit, an alliance of bus companies called the Coalition of Port Authority Carriers sued MegaBus and the city agency to prevent MegaBus from creating what the coalition said was the equivalent of a sidewalk terminal while they continued to pay rent. After their lawsuit was dismissed, the group filed an appeal, which is pending. Carolyn Daly, a spokeswoman for the group, said the bus companies believed that MegaBus should pay the Port Authority the same fees they pay.
''We think it's absolutely an unfair advantage,'' Ms. Daly said. ''It's unfair that they're not paying what they should be paying.''
Officials at Community Board 4 said they had received ''numerous complaints'' about MegaBus at monthly meetings and in e-mails from local residents; they suggested that MegaBus should not be allowed to pick up passengers at the two locations unless it meets their demands, like limiting the number of passengers waiting for buses and allowing only two buses at a time to idle at the stops.
''They did not agree to anything,'' Christine Berthet, co-chairwoman of the board's Transportation Planning Committee, said. ''They were very evasive.''
MegaBus officials were not contrite when asked about the complaints. George Lence, a spokesman for MegaBus, said that no one had complained to the company and added that MegaBus could not operate in the Port Authority terminal because the ceilings are too low.
''We would love to be in the Port Authority,'' Mr. Lence said. ''When we try to pin the community board down, it's never backed up by any valid complaints.''
MegaBus customers waiting to board buses heading to cities like Boston, Toronto, Philadelphia and Albany generally expressed pleasure at picking up the buses outside instead of in a terminal.
Darren Teruel, who was boarding a bus to Philadelphia for a job interview, said he was happy that MegaBus was close to the Port Authority terminal but liked not having to enter the terminal, which he called ''disgusting.'' He said that it was his first time on MegaBus and that he had chosen it because relatives who had taken MegaBus said it was better than the traditional bus lines.
''I would much rather be out here than inside the Port Authority,'' Mr. Teruel said. ''I would brave the weather any day.''
But some MegaBus customers still wished for something better than waiting on a sidewalk. As Dolores Restante, Dora Czernecki and Esther Brown, three friends visiting New York City from the Albany area, sat on their suitcases and waited to board their bus on 10th Avenue on a recent afternoon, they said that while they found the bus faster than Amtrak service, they didn't like waiting on a street corner. They were grateful that it wasn't raining.
''Everything was great until now, when we had to hang out,'' Ms. Restante said. ''We feel like refugees.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (94%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LITIGATION (64%); APPEALS (60%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



253 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: In Serbia, a Populist Makes Gains in Elections Marked by Anger Over the Economy

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
BELGRADE, Serbia -- An ardent advocate of the European Union and a populist rival seemed headed for a runoff in Serbia's presidential election on Sunday, while the governing Democratic Party appeared to lag in parliamentary races here.
With 25.3 percent of the vote counted, the Serbian electoral commission said the Serbian Progressive Party of Tomislav Nikolic, a former ultranationalist ally of the Serbian strongman Slobodan Milosevic, had won 23.53 percent in the parliamentary elections, compared with 22.09 percent for the Democratic Party, led by President Boris Tadic. 
Mr. Nikolic claimed victory and said he would begin coalition talks without delay. But with neither party appearing to have secured a majority, analysts predicted that Mr. Tadic's Democrats were better placed to remain in power by forming a pro-European coalition government with smaller parties. The two leaders were neck and neck in the presidential race, but experts expected the pro-Western Mr. Tadic, a telegenic psychologist, to win a runoff vote on May 20.
At stake in the elections was whether Serbia, which gained European Union candidacy status in March, continues to pursue the difficult economic and political changes necessary to gain membership or whether the country turns inward and cultivates closer ties with Russia.
Just as in Greece and France, analysts said the governing party here appeared to have suffered a backlash from voters buffeted by the economic crisis.
Visceral indignation with joblessness and an arrogant political establishment benefited populist and nationalist parties as many voters turned toward onetime supporters of Mr. Milosevic, the former Yugoslav president who plunged the country into war and international isolation.
The biggest beneficiary was Mr. Nikolic, a former cemetery chief known as the Undertaker. He has close ties to Russia but recently has refashioned himself as a pro-European keen on bolstering links with the European Union and the United States.
The Socialist Party, once led by Mr. Milosevic, came in third with 16 percent of the vote, making it the kingmaker of the election. Its leader, Ivica Dacic, the interior minister in the current coalition government, has pledged to maintain Serbia on its pro-Western path. He indicated Sunday that being made prime minister was the price for his support.
The strong performance by Mr. Nikolic's Progressive Party could also affect Serbia's attitude toward regional reconciliation, including with its neighbor Kosovo, whose declaration of independence in 2008 was vehemently rejected by Serbia and is a continuing source of anger.
The elections come at a critical moment. Thirteen years after NATO bombed the capital, Belgrade, to halt the killing of ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, Serbia's status as a candidate to join the European Union has helped burnish its image. Mr. Tadic, who is 54, undertook several difficult steps, including arresting the war crimes suspects Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, and making concessions over Kosovo.
But while Mr. Tadic has achieved important successes internationally, at home he has faced 24 percent unemployment, a political culture of cronyism and corruption, and accusations of authoritarianism. The average monthly wage here is $520, and growth is flat.
Mr. Nikolic, 60, has said that if Serbia is asked to recognize Kosovo as a condition of joining the European bloc, that would be a step too far. Until 2008, he was in the far-right Radical Party, whose fiery founder, Vojislav Seselj, faces war crimes charges.
An admirer of Russia, Mr. Nikolic had once said he would rather see Serbia become a province of Russia than a member of the European Union. He successfully tapped into voters' anger over corruption and promised to improve social protections. Many critics say that Mr. Nikolic's reorientation toward the West is merely a means to get elected.
But, analysts said, whoever ultimately forms the government, there is no turning back from Serbia's path toward the bloc.
''The feelings of Serbs are fluctuating between despair and rage,'' said Maja Piscevic, of the Serbian Association of Managers, which represents businesses. ''But the nationalism of the past is over. There is still a consensus that Europe is the only answer.''
Tijana Minja, 28, a hotel clerk with a university degree, expressed the frustration of many here when she said she had all but given up on Serbian politics. ''My family can barely survive on what we earn,'' she said. ''Our government has sold off the country and we have nothing to show for it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); WAR CRIMES (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%) SERBIA (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (93%); GREECE (79%); FRANCE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



254 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: The Cautionary Tale of Dewey & LeBoeuf

 BODY:
The law firm of Dewey & LeBoeuf was created in 2007 in the largest merger of law firms in history. Last week it encouraged all of its partners ''to seek out alternative opportunities.'' The firm is falling apart because of financial problems after overpaying star partners, gross mismanagement and other factors. But its troubles are only an extreme version of those facing many other firms. 
The economic downturn and collapse of financial markets took a huge toll on the earnings of corporate firms. That happened while they faced more competition from firms abroad and newcomers to legal work. Even before the downturn, a growing number of companies chose to rely on their own lawyers.
When corporations turn to law firms for counsel, they are increasingly aggressive about keeping fees down and asking firms to share risks, by agreeing to be paid partly for successful completion of a case. And many companies feel free to ignore legal advice they don't like.
With rising financial pressures, far too many firms feel compelled to give clients the advice they want to hear, unless that is illegal or clearly wrong. For the sake of holding on to clients, too many lawyers have put aside their independence of judgment. The legal historian Robert Gordon explained that ''professionalism and the professional ideals'' that lawyers follow are increasingly ''camouflage for narrow economic self-interest.'' Now it looks as if that dilution of ideals was done in vain, as many lawyers and many law school graduates cannot find legal jobs. Last week Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco announced a 20 percent cut in its enrollment.
For a generation, a law degree seemed to be a get-rich guarantee. No longer. But while high-powered law firms may not be hiring in large numbers, struggling Americans are desperate for representation -- whether they are facing foreclosure or battling for government benefits. Washington and the states need to do a lot more to ensure that these people are represented. And the legal profession needs to do some serious soul-searching. Isn't it time for lawyers to reshape corporate practice so they make less money, have time to serve other legal needs and approach their work with the independence that would make them true professionals?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (93%); LEGAL SERVICES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAW FIRM MERGERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HISTORY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%)

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



255 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Unlikely Connecticut Town for This Year's Latino Expo

BYLINE: By NOAH ROSENBERG

 BODY:
EAST HAVEN, Conn. -- Visitors to the high school here this weekend were treated to a carnival of Latino exuberance before they finally stumbled upon the outliers. They walked through a shiny corridor where D.J.'s blasted Ricky Martin and reggaeton music, past a boisterous chef shimmying and shaking his hips as he cooked, and past a gaggle of teenage girls posing in their quinceanera dresses.
Only then, around a cafeteria corner and comfortably out of view from the pina colada station, would visitors at this year's Latino Expo be greeted by the unexpected: two uniformed men sitting beneath a blue banner emblazoned with ''East Haven Police'' in large yellow letters. Nearby, the town's mayor, Joseph Maturo Jr., bounced among vendors, a blue plastic lei dangling from his neck. 
Under typical circumstances, in a typical town, a mayor could glad-hand visitors and his police department could set up a recruiting booth at a local event without raising eyebrows or suspicions.
But circumstances in East Haven have been far from typical since the town and its embattled police force became the subject of a federal investigation that led to the arrest of four officers in January.
The Justice Department cited faulty police practices in East Haven and said a culture of racial profiling and intimidation deprived Hispanics and other minority groups of their rights. The East Haven police chief, Leonard Gallo, retired shortly after the arrests of the officers.
The day the indictments were unsealed, Mayor Maturo sarcastically told a television reporter that he might reach out to the Hispanic community by eating tacos; that comment prompted an advocacy group to deliver 400 tacos to the East Haven Town Hall.
But in this New Haven suburb, which has a population of about 29,000, residents say the growth of the Hispanic population resulted in racial and cultural friction long before the police force was upended.
So the mere location of the Latino Expo -- police recruiting booth notwithstanding -- had become something of a political football in recent weeks.
Debra Gould created the expo 11 years ago and had most recently held it in Hartford, at the Connecticut Expo Center, which closed in September. She was running out of options when an opportunity arose in East Haven.
''And I chuckled and I said, 'Wouldn't it be fun to bring 10,000 Hispanics to East Haven?' '' Ms. Gould, 59, recalled. ''It's like a joke, but it's real -- maybe that's what should happen to East Haven.''
Ms. Gould said she got in touch with the town's economic development director, telling him, ''You guys need a crash course in cultural competency, and I'm just the person to teach it.''
The weekend expo, the 12th over all and first in East Haven, featured live music, bilingual readings for children, and about 50 vendors, including local businesses and stations devoted to voter registration, eye screenings and information for immigrant students.
Ms. Gould lamented that only about five of the vendors were from East Haven. She said she believed that a local immigrant leader had organized a boycott. Still, the expo will return to East Haven in 2013, she said.
The location of the expo proved irresistible for many area residents, including Millie Karakish, who heard about it on the local news and brought her daughter and grandson along for the spectacle on Saturday.
''I'm thinking, 'Wow -- East Haven, of all places to have a Latin expo, I have to come see this!' '' said Ms. Karakish, 48, who is from Puerto Rico.
Inside, ''Mayor Joe,'' as Mr. Maturo introduced himself to attendees, sought to cast the town in a different light. He posed for photographs and tried out a little elementary Spanish on attendees.
The situation in town has improved since the arrests, the mayor said, referring to the Police Department's new chief and a new set of regulations created in response to the Justice Department's findings.
''It's time we all move forward,'' he said.
So, there sat Deputy Police Chief John Mannion and Officer David Emerman, the only fluent Spanish-speaker on the force, flanked by posters proclaiming the benefits of becoming an East Haven officer, including the $50,382 starting salary.
Deputy Chief Mannion admitted that Saturday had been relatively slow at their booth.
Toward the closing hour of the event on Saturday, he had instructed three or four people on how to get the police officer application form.
The main purpose of the police presence at the expo, he emphasized, was outreach, with ''some recruiting on the side.''
''It's a huge blow,'' the deputy chief said of the allegations against the Police Department. ''But we'll get through it.''
Nonetheless, some East Haven residents remained skeptical of the police. Asked for her thoughts on the police presence at the Latino Expo, Elena Ortuno, 63, breathed the words ''Oh my God.''
She said the Hispanic community of East Haven felt ''less safe -- they're not happy,'' after the officers' arrests. ''People who don't have papers are very scared,'' she added.
But over on Main Street, at My Country Store, Marcia Chacon, an owner, said a sense of calm was beginning to return to the Latino community of East Haven.
''Little by little, it's coming back,'' Ms. Chacon, 40, said in Spanish.
She recalled being terrified when police officers entered her store in February 2009 and arrested a local pastor who was filming their behavior -- an episode that brought the issue of harassment into public view.
''The police created terror in East Haven,'' Ms. Chacon said. ''Now there's a confidence in them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Joseph Maturo Jr. of East Haven, Conn., at the first Latino Expo held in the suburb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); MAYORS (88%); RACIAL PROFILING (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CITIES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); ETHNICITY (70%); RACE & RACISM (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



256 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PAR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Pitch and Putt and Behold the Glory

BYLINE: By CHRIS SANTELLA

 BODY:
BANDON, Ore. - On Tuesday, more than 150 golfers lined up to plunk down $100 to play a 13-hole par-3 golf course called Bandon Preserve, at the Bandon Dunes Golf Resort on the coast of southern Oregon.
Pay $100 for a par-3 course? 
Not taken completely seriously, par-3 courses are a frequently overlooked part of the golf world. The holes are generally under 200 yards, and the greens can usually be reached by players of modest ability in one shot. Par-3 layouts are not usually sanctioned by the United States Golf Association and hence need not adhere to particular rules. Some courses might have 9 or 18 holes, though they are almost as likely to have 6-, 10- and 12-hole layouts.
Par-3 courses are often perceived as practice areas, an extension of the driving range, and somehow not quite ''real golf.''
''If you were to review every par-3 course in America, most would fall into the 'rudimentary' category,'' said Ron Whitten, Golf Digest's architecture editor. ''However, the same can be said for most regulation golf courses. Par-3s play an important role. They are the sandlots of golf, where people can go to build a passion for the game.''
The first known par-3 course opened in Portsmouth, England, in 1914, primarily as a diversion for vacationers. Short courses gained some competitive elan in 1933 with the launch of the Professional Short Course Championship, now known as the British Par 3 Championship. Whitten said par-3 courses began appearing in greater numbers after World War II, partly because of the architect Geoffrey Cornish, who built many short layouts in the United States, Canada and Europe. ''With a little luck, beginners could hit some greens, maybe even make some birdies,'' Whitten said.
Irish golfers also advanced the cause of short courses, forming the Pitch and Putt Union of Ireland in 1960 to govern competitive events.
Drew Rogers, a golf course architect in Toledo, Ohio, said he played par-3s regularly as he was learning the game.
''My mom would drop me off and say, 'Here's 10 bucks, I'll get you in three hours, have fun,' '' he said. ''Sometimes, you'd have to search hard to find a guy that you could pay. The holes were pretty pedestrian and didn't have much in the way of features. The greens were all identical circles, usually crowned, and they were often lighted for night play. Not much effort was ever put into their creation or their maintenance. It was always fun to play the par-3s, but I wouldn't label my experiences then as anything too special.''
But although the image of par-3 courses is decidedly downscale, they need not be ugly or unchallenging. The par-3 course at Augusta National Golf Club has holes that replicate some of the greens and approach shots of the famed site of the Masters. The par-3 tournament held the day before the Masters has been televised in recent years, helping to elevate the status of par-3 golf, Whitten said. There is also a par-3 course at San Francisco's Olympic Club, where the United States Open will be held in June.
Fine public par-3 courses can be found along the Robert Trent Jones Golf Trail in Alabama, at Monarch Dunes in Southern California, and at Treetops Resort in northern Michigan.
There is reason to think par-3 courses will gain popularity. First, there is the economics: short courses do not require as much land, and the holes are cheaper to build and maintain. Other trends also favor short courses.
''People have less time for golf, and you can get around a par-3 in just an hour and a half,'' said Mike Keiser, the owner of Bandon Dunes Golf Resort, which features four regulation courses. ''And baby-boomer golfers are getting older. Many of our clients used to play 36 holes a day for several days. Bandon is a walking-only facility, and some of these players simply can't walk 36 anymore.
''When I mentioned to some regulars that I was considering a par-3 course - a memorable par-3 course - to a man, they said, 'Hurry up and build it.' ''
Bill Coore, who designed Bandon Preserve with the two-time Masters champion Ben Crenshaw, said they approached the design of the course the same way they would approach a full-length course.
''No different design tenets come into play,'' Coore said. ''I've always felt that short par-3 holes can be some of the finest holes in golf. They negate the need for strength. An 18- or 20-handicap player can hit a shot that's as good or better than the shot a tour player can hit. Par-3s balance the playing field, and that makes things fun.''
The 13 holes at Bandon Preserve range from roughly 80 to 175 yards, and they unfold on undulating land that slopes gradually to the Pacific Ocean. The fescue turf, the shape and speed of the greens, and the bunkering are all in keeping with the look and feel of Bandon's long courses.
''Our directive was to build the best holes we could find on the available land, holes that would fit in on the other courses,'' Coore said. He added: ''I don't think Bandon Preserve will be perceived as second-class golf. Even the little 78-yard eighth hole will hold its head up. 'I may be little,' it might say, 'but I'm in your face.' ''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bandon Preserve, a par-3 course that opened last week in Oregon, is spread on undulating land that slopes gradually to the Pacific Ocean. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WOOD SABOLD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (52%) OREGON, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); CANADA (77%); EUROPE (77%); ENGLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



257 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Grace Period for France As Markets Digest Election

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- Of all the changes that have hit Europe during its long-running debt and economic crisis, a power shift in France, where Francois Hollande is preparing to take over as the country's first Socialist president in 17 years, may prove to be one of the most significant.
Street crowds in Paris were cheering Mr. Hollande's victory, but with unease rising about the future of the euro union, investors around the world were more on edge.
Mr. Hollande ran a campaign that captured the imagination of a public wary of austerity. But investors fret that he will spend more than he should to bolster a flagging economy, rather than move ahead with labor market and business reforms that economists say France sorely needs to lift competitiveness and prevent it from getting caught in the euro's resurgent troubles. 
''Markets will not attack France right away,'' said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''But there is a risk that if Mr. Hollande does not act early on, France will become the next sick man of Europe.''
Whether Mr. Hollande or any other French leader could lift investor confidence is unclear; unemployment is at a 10-year high of 10 percent, and the national debt has ballooned to 86 percent of gross domestic product, well above an estimated 78 percent in Germany.
Under the departing president, Nicolas Sarkozy, the deficit has risen to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product, one of the largest shortfalls in the euro area. At least one ratings agency has stripped France of its sterling triple-A sovereign debt rating because of concern about its finances.
Mr. Hollande has vowed to restore social equilibrium in France, in part by pushing back against the austerity championed by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and the European Central Bank president, Mario Draghi. Mr. Hollande's plans include rolling back tax breaks that Mr. Sarkozy gave to the wealthy, and increasing state-sponsored investment, in part by creating tens of thousands of civil sector jobs.
His talk has already had the effect of unnerving some investors, who drove France's borrowing costs higher recently on concern he was underestimating how costly some of his spending programs might be.
More than 55 percent of France's gross domestic product is made up of public spending, the highest in the euro zone.
''That shows that the only way to change things is to reduce public spending, but Francois Hollande is still willing to increase it to finance his measures and balance the budget through higher taxes,'' said Evariste Lefeuvre, chief Americas economist in New York for the French bank Natixis. ''It's something that will frighten markets a bit.''
Another concern is that Mr. Hollande may not be able to halt an erosion of competitiveness in the corporate sector, which is dominated by many small and midsize businesses that do not export much, and where profitability is generally low. France also faces declining exports and a widening current-account deficit that is one of the euro zone's highest.
These troubles have investors fretting that France is drifting from the ''core'' of strong European economies that include Germany and the Nordic countries. These days, many are starting to lump France with the weak large economies of Spain and Italy, along Europe's troubled southern rim.
With a large public deficit and a sharply diminished manufacturing sector that has eroded under globalization, ''France can already be considered part of the south,'' Mr. Lefeuvre said.
As throngs shouted and blared horns, Mr. Hollande, in his acceptance speech, said he was on ''a mission to give the European construction a growth dimension,'' and addressed Germany directly to act with him ''in the name of our common responsibility.''
He has jolted the German establishment by vowing to press for a renegotiation of a European treaty on budget discipline into more of a pact by Europe to promote growth, amid criticism of austerity measures that has swept through the euro union. ''Austerity cannot remain fatal!'' he shouted to the crowd.
Few think Mr. Hollande will try to split from Ms. Merkel, even as she is forced to soften her hard line on austerity. His first foreign trip will be to Berlin, where he will try to smooth over differences.
For all his populist talk, Mr. Hollande knows where the boundaries are, economists say. At the end of the day, he is not repudiating a fiscal contract, and is unlikely to push outsize spending increases that would invite financial markets to attack France the way they have recently in Spain.
Mr. Hollande has proved to be unlike any of his Socialist predecessors, by campaigning partly on a pledge to balance the budget by the end of the presidential term in 2017.
''French Socialists want balanced public accounts in the medium-term, which is quite new,'' said Dominique Barbet, an economist at BNP Paribas in Paris.
''But how to get there is a different story,'' he said. ''Certainly markets would probably be more comfortable with a conservative approach of spending cuts and tax hikes rather than a classic Socialist approach, which is more widely based on tax increases.''
Whether Mr. Hollande gets all he wants will also depend on the makeup of the new French Parliament, which will be voted in next month. He will have to start making good right away on some of his promises, but things could get trickier if his Socialists party must work with the far-right as a coalition to get measures passed.
But perhaps the biggest flash point is the state of French labor markets and the lack of a greater overall competitive environment for businesses in the country.
France has a wealthy, diversified, resilient economy and a highly skilled and productive labor force. It boasts a cadre of world-class companies, including Airbus, Dassault, Renault, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton. The list goes on.
Despite a 35-hour workweek that has recently been softened, high payroll taxes and a militant work force, France is the fifth-largest economy in the world and has one of the highest inflows of foreign direct investment in all of Europe.
But many economists are skeptical France will be able to move toward greater openness, especially in its rigid labor markets. High social charges that companies pay to help finance France's generous welfare system, combined with lengthy hiring and firing processes, deter employers from adding significant numbers of new jobs.
Labor market costs are among the highest of any country in the 17-member euro monetary union. Even the World Bank, which has criticized the German-driven austerity policy that Mr. Sarkozy had embraced, has warned that France has driven labor costs too high given the relatively small numbers of hours people work. The bank said the French situation was not sustainable amid fast-rising competition from Asia, Eastern Europe and other low-cost countries.
What is more, while French labor unions have shrunk in membership over the years, they still wield outsize influence. Employers say they can paralyze companies that need to shed jobs or cut other expenses to adapt to worsening economic conditions.
Analysts say Mr. Hollande needs to give unions more of an incentive to work with management to prevent confrontations that can lead businesses to consider moving work toward other cost-competitive destinations.
''There's a sort of 'Nixon goes to China' element where, as a Socialist, he will be able to pressure the unions toward more concessions on various labor market reforms,'' said Mr. Kirkegaard of the Peterson Institute. ''But it still means he's got to be willing to take the confrontation. That will determine where France goes from here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); SOVEREIGN RISK (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TAX RELIEF (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); NATIXIS SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%)

TICKER: KN (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (92%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



258 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Spain's Largest Banks Fear a Federal Bailout Could Hurt Their Valuations

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
MADRID -- As investors raise the pressure on Spain to clean up its banking sector, some of the largest and healthiest financial institutions in the country are fretting over the impact that a bailout would have on their own valuations.
In recent days, the conservative government of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and the Bank of Spain have been studying whether to allow banks to transfer toxic assets to a state asset management company, along the lines of the government-backed agency that Ireland set up for its troubled banks in late 2009. 
The exact structure and size of such a transfer is being debated, as well as whether it would be guaranteed by Spain, or would need to be bolstered by rescue funds from international lenders, as part of a broader recapitalization of the Spanish banking sector.
Yet such a rescue plan is being resisted by the largest Spanish commercial banks, Santander and BBVA, whose exposure to the Spanish market is comparatively small thanks to hefty investments overseas, particularly in Latin America.
On Friday, Emilio Botin, the chairman of Santander, said at a conference in Murcia, in southeastern Spain, that he opposed allowing toxic assets to be parked in a ''bad bank.'' Such a strategy, he argued, was ''not the solution'' and would not improve the banking sector's lending capacity. With Spain suffering its second recession in three years, some companies are closing or downsizing because credit has dried up.
A bad bank, Mr. Botin said, ''would be something that would cost the taxpayer money and will not lead to providing more loans.'' Instead, he called for ''completing the restructuring'' of the sector.
Many economists, however, consider that keeping afloat the most troubled savings banks, or cajas, will require fresh capital rather than more mergers and cost cutting. Bankia, a caja that is the result of a seven-way merger, is sitting on about 32 billion, or $41.9 billion, of troubled assets. Overall, the consolidation has already cut the number of cajas to 15 from 45 in the past two years.
Such mergers, however, ''don't remove the holes but simply pass them on from one institution to another,'' Xavier Sala-i-Martin, an economics professor at Columbia University in New York, wrote recently on his blog. ''The only thing that will work is fresh money, to recapitalize some banks that have no capital left, and since it's clear that banks cannot raise sufficient private capital, that means there are only two solutions: bankruptcy or public money,'' he added.
In February, Luis de Guindos, the Spanish economy minister, ordered banks to make an additional 50 billion in provisions against bad loans. Lenders are facing a sharp rise in mortgage defaults, with overall nonperforming loans recently reaching their highest level since 1994.
Last week, the credit ratings agency Standard & Poor's downgraded 11 Spanish banks, notably cutting to junk level Banco Sabadell, a commercial bank that took over a troubled caja as part of the government's consolidation drive.
Meanwhile, in a report published last month, the International Monetary Fund warned that 10 banks -- widely believed by analysts to include Bankia -- needed ''swift and decisive measures to strengthen their balance sheets and improve management and governance practices.''
The I.M.F. also encouraged Spain to consider taking over toxic assets from troubled banks.
Robert Tornabell, a professor of banking at the Esade business school in Barcelona, estimates that a state agency will need to take over and guarantee at least 130 billion of assets from Spain's ailing banks.
By comparison, Ireland's national asset management agency was set up to take over as much as 90 billion of toxic loans.
''The big commercial banks, Santander and BBVA, don't want to be linked to the creation of a bad bank, and the government is clearly under their influence,'' Mr. Tornabell said. ''Instead of delaying further, Spain should bail out its banks as soon as possible to avoid further problems, not only for its banks but also for its reputation and overall economy.''
Indeed, the Spanish government is struggling on other fronts, notably how to enforce stricter fiscal targets on regional governments that accounted for two-thirds of Spain's budget deficit slippage last year.
On Friday, S.&P. downgraded nine regional governments, including Catalonia, whose rating was cut by four notches to BBB- from A, bringing it close to junk status.
Some analysts, meanwhile, are warning that, even if Spain can salvage its banks alone, it must also ease the pressure on its sovereign borrowing costs by convincing international investors that their investments will not be threatened by a Greek-style bailout.
''Managing the fiscal imbalances and the banking-sector fallout of the ongoing credit cycle alone does not, in our view, require external official support,'' analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in a report published Friday. ''However, what the Spanish authorities cannot manage on their own is sustained, large capital outflows of the sort that have recently been experienced. If foreign investors continue to reduce their exposure to Spain at an economically disruptive rate, the country will require external financial support to manage this adjustment.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emilio Botin of Santander said a ''bad bank'' for troubled assets would cost taxpayers money and would not increase lending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NACHO CUBERO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MERGERS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); CLOSINGS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

PERSON: EMILIO BOTIN (71%); ANA PATRICIA BOTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MURCIA, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



259 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Candidates In Egypt Work To Mollify The Military

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy El Sheikh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Two weeks before Egypt's presidential election begins, the leading candidates are adopting a deferential tone toward the current military rulers even as the generals make clear that they expect to maintain much of their autonomy and influence after their pledged handover of power.
Fifteen months after the generals seized power at the ouster of Hosni Mubarak, how much they now submit for the first time to civilian authority will determine whether last year's uprising lives up to its billing as a democratic revolution or amounts instead to a coup. It is among the most consequential questions for Egypt's allies, like the United States and Israel, and for the next Egyptian president.
But one of the three leading candidates, Amr Moussa, a former diplomat, says the issue is too delicate to address publicly. Another, Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood, says he intends to consult closely with the generals over matters concerning the military rather than impose his will, including in the choice of a defense minister. The third leading contender, Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, a more liberal former Brotherhood leader who has been the most assertive toward the military, says he, too, intends to consult with the generals, and to initially appoint one of them as defense minister. 
And advisers to all three candidates say they expect only limited scrutiny of the defense budget, at most by a special committee of Parliament.
The generals, for their part, sound confident that they will retain their influence, immunity and commercial empire, which includes operations like real estate development, consumer electronics and bottled water.
''The relationship between the people and the military is historic and eternal; it didn't begin with the current Supreme Council of the Armed Forces,'' Maj. Gen. Mamdouh Shaheen said in a news conference last week.
Since the British-backed monarchy, General Shaheen said, Egyptian constitutions have always assigned the military a role far larger than defending the borders. One journalist for Egypt's state news media asked how the military could hand power to a new president without any assurance of what would come next.
''There is no worry,'' General Shaheen said, noting that every constitutional revision since 1923 has included provisions for the military to take over in a ''catastrophe.''
Policy makers in the United States have built close ties to Egypt's military and consider the generals to be a force of stability, in particular in relations with Israel.
But the generals' past insistence on preserving their political influence has also elicited calls from Washington for an expedited handover of power. There are worries that the specter of military power behind the scenes could fuel doubts about the government's legitimacy and transparency, and thus continued instability.
Recent outbursts of violence underline that concern. At least 13 Egyptians were killed and hundreds were injured in the past five days in clashes with soldiers and their civilian supporters during demonstrations against military rule, adding to more than 100 deaths in similar clashes since the generals took over in February 2011.
Still, the generals and civilian political leaders all say they look forward to democratic accountability and the peaceful rotation of power. At their news conference last week, the generals repeated that they intended to leave power on June 30. They noted with pride that Egypt is now in the midst of the first competitive presidential election in its history, after free and fair parliamentary elections just a few months ago.
''If we wanted to commit fraud, we would have done it at the parliamentary elections,'' General Shaheen said, brushing off suspicions that the military would sabotage the handover. ''A military coup, is this our plan? After all this?''
The ultimate balance of civilian and military power, in public and behind the scenes, may take years to work out. And even amid the mounting dissatisfaction with the generals' management of the political transition, the military retains its prestige. At the news conference, called to address last week's deaths, Egyptian journalists repeatedly broke into applause for the ruling generals.
Mr. Moussa, for one, blamed the protesters in part for the recent deaths during attempts to storm the Defense Ministry. ''I do not understand how some are attempting to break into the ministry,'' he said at a campaign event on Saturday, in remarks quoted by the state news media. ''Where's the state and what is the point of this invasion?''
''Everyone is starting to think that there is complete chaos in Egypt,'' he said, adding, ''How could an Egyptian want to occupy the Defense Ministry?''
In a recent news conference, Mr. Moussa told journalists that their questions about the military's future role were out of bounds. ''I don't think it is in the interest of the public or the future president to dive into the details at this time,'' he said.
Asked about the idea of a ''safe exit'' for the generals -- meaning immunity from prosecution over corruption accusations or other misdeeds during their time in power, Mr. Moussa said he wanted to talk about a ''safe exit'' for Egypt. ''We are electing a civilian president,'' he said. ''This is the beginning.''
Mr. Moussa has never publicly questioned the military's business interests, or talked of any legal accountability for past wrongdoing.
Mr. Morsi pledged that if he were elected he would consult closely with the generals over the appointment of a defense minister and would not dictate a choice.
''Consultation, and not one side forcing its opinion on the other,'' Mr. Morsi said of his plans to work with the generals. His advisers say privately that he also has no plans to dismantle the military's business projects, or to press charges against them.
Mr. Aboul Fotouh has insisted publicly that the president should have the right to name a civilian defense minister if he chooses. But in television interviews he has said that given the current political climate, he, too, would pick a military officer.
He also has called publicly for the military budget to be included for the first time in the national budget. But his advisers say he is open to limiting the scrutiny of some or all of the defense budget to a special committee of Parliament. And he has said explicitly that he, too, would consult the generals on policy decisions in areas that concern them.
''We are against the military having any role outside its duty of securing the safety of the country,'' Mr. Aboul Fotouh said in a recent interview with Al Masry Al Youm, a major, independent daily newspaper. ''That doesn't mean isolating the military from politics, which is what Mubarak did by not sounding them out on political matters. There's a difference between the military having a political opinion and forcing this opinion.''
Unlike the other candidates, he has questioned the wisdom of allowing the military's commercial businesses -- which come with financial and tax advantages -- to compete against private enterprises. But he has also left the door open for the generals to preserve some of those ventures.
''No one's against the military having economic activities, but to serve itself only, not to compete with the private and public sector,'' he said in the same interview. ''The military having institutions to serve its needs is something that exists all over the world.''
In their news conference, the generals dismissed the public outrage last fall over their efforts to insert into the planned constitution explicit guarantees of the military's power and autonomy as a guardian of political stability.
''To those who say that the armed forces seek 'a special status' in the constitution,'' General Shaheen said, ''the armed forces have an established status present since the Constitution of 1923,'' under the British-backed monarchy.
Gen. Mohktar el Mulla defended the military's commercial empire. ''When I help with the economic development through building roads or bridges and so on, it's for the interest of the people,'' he said.
As for charges of wrongdoing, they had been handled privately by military courts, the generals said.
''The prosecution finished,'' General Mulla said. ''Whoever is convicted will be punished.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Egyptians protested outside the Swiss Embassy on Sunday. The country will go to the polls for presidential elections in two weeks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANLUIGI GUERCIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUPS (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); BUDGETS (65%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (64%); BOTTLED WATER (64%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); REAL ESTATE (52%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



260 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
New York: A New York institution -- the corner bodega -- is in the crosshairs of 7-Eleven's plans to open scores of new stores in Manhattan over the next five years. -- Patrick Farrell
: A six-pound loaf of levain, natural sourdough: When did bread get so big? Orwasher's can pull off baking miracles, though: like filling house-made jelly donuts to order. -- Julia Moskin
Eater: Low markups? Check. Extensive selection of mature rieslings? Check. Talia Baiocchi finds a lot to like in the wine list at Atera. -- Eric Asimov 
Food and Wine: The chef Dano Hutnik and his wife are bringing spaetzle, wiener schnitzel and the Austrian concept of the heuriger (a casual winery restaurant) to the Finger Lakes. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Washington Post: The State Fair of Virginia has been shut down, a victim of the recession, the state's galloping urbanization, and a national trend that has already shuttered fairs in Nevada and Michigan. One farmer puts it well: "Dadgum." -- Patrick Farrell 
The Journal News: Here's more about chef Michael Psilakis and his expansion into Westchester County, where a new MP Taverna opens this week. -- Jeff Gordinier
: Best Mother's Day recipe post of this year, hands down. -- Julia Moskin
The New York Daily News: Most New York strip clubs get an A rating -- not for "adult," but for cleanliness ...
The New York Post: ... Yet a Brooklyn bagel shop face $1,650 in fines because city health inspectors found sesame and poppy seeds on the floor. Sounds unfair, but then, inspectors say they also found mouse droppings nearby. -- Patrick Farrell
Brooklyn Guy: Whoa! The Brook steps back to reflect on wine and food that's wowed him recently. It'll wow you , too. -- Eric Asimov 
Dash and Bella: On frittata and domestic frenzy. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Amanda Hesser's Web site Food52 and the journal Gastronomica are "publications of the year" in the James Beard awards for food writing and broadcasting. -- Patrick Farrell
: Spent grains -- the barley, rye, oats and other wet nuggets that emerge from craft brewing -- have long been regarded as a waste product. But chefs are starting to use them to flavor breads, stocks and even meatballs. -- Patrick Farrell
YouTube: In case spring brings out the hippie in you, here's a reading of a strange little Richard Brautigan poem about a strange little hamburger stand ...
The Guardian: ... Then again, perhaps you're already making your way to Earth Dragon Edibles. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BAKED GOODS (89%); RETAIL BAKERIES (77%); INSPECTIONS (75%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WINERIES (70%); TRENDS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



261 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: The Uses and Misuses of Unpaid Internships

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: Former interns offer their accounts of whether their unpaid work was valuable experience - and legal. 

 BODY:
Camille Olson, one of the nation's leading lawyers in advising employers about internship programs, says internships can be an excellent way for employers to get a good sense of a potential hire - to kick the tires, so to speak - and see, for example, how hard-working or creative someone is. If an intern performs well, it seems natural for the employer to offer a regular, permanent job. But if the intern is not up to snuff, it is much less painful to let the person go after three months than to lay off a recently hired regular employee after three months. That latter course not only hurts the worker, but also helps give the employer a reputation as an undesirable place to work.
 As for the use of unpaid interns - something I wrote about at length in a Sunday article in The New York Times - Ms. Olson generally gives that idea a thumbs-down. 
Ms. Olson generally advises employers, especially profit-making employers, to pay their interns, noting that it should not be much of a financial strain to pay them minimum wage. She points out that the Labor Department's guidelines are quite strict about when employers can legally avoid paying interns at least the minimum wage: the internships must resemble vocational education; the internship experience must be for the benefit of the interns; the interns must work under close supervision; their work cannot be used as a substitute for that of regular employees; and their work cannot be of immediate benefit to the employer.
 My Sunday article explained that with the unemployment rate so high - 13.2 percent - for workers 20 to 24 years old, many young Americans are reluctantly taking unpaid internships as a way to get valuable experience as well as a foot in the door in the field where they hope to make a career. Several interns praised their unpaid internships, saying they learned valuable skills, like Web site design, that helped them land paying jobs. 
 But several graduates I interviewed voiced considerable dismay with their internships, saying those positions were far less educational than they had anticipated. The phrase "grunt work" came up time and again in interviews. Several described unpaid internships that seemed to conflict with the Labor Department guidelines.

Dedunu Sylvia Suraweera took an internship at a Manhattan theater group soon after graduating from the State University of New York at Stony Brook in 2010. For two months, she said, she and a dozen other unpaid interns gathered at 9 each morning in the living room of the director's apartment and made hour after hour of phone calls to small businesses to urge them to contribute items to a silent auction that would raise money so the theater could mount a production. After two months, Ms. Suraweera quit, frustrated that she was not learning anything or doing any theater. 
"I definitely felt taken advantage of," said Ms. Suraweera, who is now studying for a master's degree in social work. 
Marra Green, a fashion design major who graduated from the University of Delaware last year, had an internship last fall at the Diane von Furstenberg fashion house in Manhattan. She said the internship was not very educational - indeed sometimes it sounded as if she was working as her boss's valet.
"I did some work on spreadsheets on various projects," Ms. Green said. "But I was always in the merchandising closet looking for things," that is, fashion items.
"I would spend my day looking for things," she added. "I did a lot of lunch runs. I also did some weird personal errands. I picked up clothes which my boss ordered from the store. I returned her children's clothes to various stores. I went to Barneys to pick up Christmas presents - my boss gave me her credit card. I had to get her cellphone from her house several times when she left it there."
 The DVF fashion house issued a statement: "We are very proud of our internship program, and we take all concerns of this kind very seriously."
 Stacey Wood had a hard time finding a paying position after obtaining a master's degree in counseling psychology in 2008 from the Institute for Transpersonal Psychology in Palo Alto, Calif. Alarmed that she might not make the deadline for getting the required number of hours of practice to obtain a full license, she took an unpaid internship as a grief counselor at a hospice. She was 38, and she and her husband had run up more than $200,000 in student debts from college and graduate school.
 "It would have been nice if they had paid me minimum wage," Ms. Wood said. "You got bills to pay." Still, she said she received valuable experience and guidance as an intern at the hospice.
In their comments about my article, many readers gave two thumbs down to unpaid internships. A reader from Ohio, in a comment highly recommended by other readers, wrote: "Unpaid internships are commonly a means around the Fair Labor Standards Act. It is exploitation at its worst and needs to be stopped." That reader added, "Unpaid internships are yet another reflection our new Gilded Age where winners take all and have pulled up the ladder by which others used to ascend to the top."
Professor David Yamada of the Suffolk University Law School in Boston wrote in to make a point that I had made in a 2010 article on unpaid internships, but did not discuss in my article on Sunday. Missing from the article, Professor Yamada wrote, "is the fact that unpaid internships have huge social class impacts on folks who cannot afford to work for free, reinforcing economic barriers to certain professions long associated with the well-to-do."
 In other words, college graduates with wealthy parents who can underwrite their living costs during their internships get a leg up because they get a head start with coveted employers, like film production companies, publishers, literary agencies and fashion houses. But college grads whose parents cannot support them say they often have to turn to an $8.50-an-hour job at McDonald's or Target and cannot afford to take an unpaid internship.
 This helps explain why Occupy Wall Street has declared war against unpaid internships. Occupy's Arts and Labor Committee has written to arts publications and job boards to urge them to stop carrying notices seeking unpaid interns. "This system benefits people who already possess financial means and can afford to work for free, thus propagating social inequality in the art world," the committee wrote. 

        
Stephen Colbert on Unpaid Internships
        
What We're Reading ...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); THEATER (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (70%); AUCTIONS (61%); THEATER COMPANIES (60%) Internships; Labor and Jobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



262 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Re-Engineering the Business of Law

BYLINE: J. STEPHEN POOR


HIGHLIGHT: In the wake of Dewey &#038; LeBouef's troubles, does the legal industry need to change? The chairman of Seyfarth Shaw calls for big law firms to examine and reimagine their business model. 

 BODY:
True long-term success requires businesses to improve continually and reimagine how they operate in the face of changing competition and market forces. Yet this innovative urge, which drives so much of the rest of the American economy, is largely absent from large law firms.
Instead, the measures become balancing rate growth versus discounted fees, lawyer productivity measured in tenths of hours, recruiting the partner with a book of business from one firm to another and similar yardsticks. 
These address the traditional measures of law firm profitability. The need of the purchasers of legal services -- at least from large law firms -- continues to change, however. The pressure on in-house counsel to deliver better services using fewer resources has never been more intense. In order to meet business demands, corporate counsel are increasingly looking for firms that deliver greater value. Looking out on a landscape that includes a wider variety of choices than ever before - regional firms, national firms, global firms, virtual firms, legal outsourcing providers and contract firms, among others -- their purchasing decisions continue to evolve. 
If the recent recession teaches anything for the legal industry, it is this: The changing demands of our clients require the legal services profession to find different paths to deliver value to those who buy our services. Lawyers today should be asking themselves nontraditional questions: how to apply resources more effectively, to shorten cycle time and lower the cost of their work product and other deliverables, while raising the level of service. In the end, your client will reward you by giving you more work across more areas, and your relationship will deepen. 
The ground on which we walk has been altered. Traditionally, large law firms fit into largely homogenous business models. Whether we recognize it or not, that has changed and will continue to shift. As we navigate a different world, our experience presents three core lessons:
Be Prepared to Examine and Reimagine the Business Model.
Our firm has been on its own, unique path for years. Over the past seven years, we've used a version of Lean Six Sigma borrowed from the manufacturing sector to redesign core elements of how legal work process is measured and deployed. This has resulted in a variety of tools, analyses and process improvement techniques intended to drive efficiency into the delivery of legal services - at all levels of the practice. More important, it aligns a way of thinking with the needs and requirements of corporate purchasers of legal services. 
What works for us, however, may not work for every firm. Culture, current firm composition and many other factors should drive the way any firm responds to the market. The point, however, is that -- other than for a handful of firms -- the status quo will not drive long-term success. Change, particularly one involving lawyers, is a painful, prolonged process. Nevertheless, change, driven from innovation and a consistent focus on client needs, must drive how we look at and manage our businesses. Learning from our colleagues in the industry is important, but adapting that learning and innovating in the delivery of our services is critical. 
Don't Settle for Half-Steps. 
Too often, I see firms start down a path only to stop at partial implementation or inconsistent philosophies. At Seyfarth, we realized that trying to drive different behaviors would require us to restructure things like associate evaluation (which we did by putting our compensation and advancement structures into a pure competency model) and re-examine our staffing models (for example, we eliminated a traditional summer program and replaced it with an education-based fellowship program). The global reach of our clients and their need for integrated, efficient service delivery across multiple countries, led us to create the largest multijurisdictional international employment practice, among others. 
The point is not that our path is for everyone. The point is that the willingness to change and adapt business models must anticipate and address the variables that drive organizational success. 
Marketing efforts are lovely; certainly, we all do marketing. But if one is to truly evolve a business model, the only way to avoid having it become simply a marketing effort is to recognize that it must drive through all parts of the organization. This will result in changes and modifications that were not anticipated but which make sense and should be adopted in order to have the overall change work properly. 
Never Underestimate Resistance to Change.
Never underestimate the resistance to change from lawyers. Even more likely, never underestimate the ability of lawyers to describe virtual status quo efforts as revolutionary change. Working through a change management process intended to deal with that push-back has been a core element of our challenge for years. We consciously developed methodologies that linked to the history and culture of our firm or used client voices to support and build the business case for change. As we were able to demonstrate success on smaller scales, we were able to build agents for change that effectively permeated the firm. 
What we did not anticipate was the resistance from other crucial stakeholders - especially clients. Much of what we've done is most effective when deployed in a collaborative change process with clients. What we overlooked at the outset is that, by and large, our clients are lawyers, too, and many of them are the products of the culture of their own business. Understanding the various viewpoints and building the business case to involve this crucial constituency was something we learned along the way. The nature of the process requires a continuous, but slow march toward improvement and adaptation. Some things we tried worked and some did not. Nevertheless, the continuous move forward takes persistence and, perhaps, a bit of stubbornness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAW PRACTICE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SIX SIGMA (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (77%); OUTSOURCING (75%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (72%); LEAN MFG (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); QUALITY CONTROL (60%) J. Stephen Poor; Seyfarth Shaw; Legal Profession; Another View; Legal/Regulatory

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



263 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Few Seize on a U.S. Bond Program Backing Green Energy

BYLINE: DIANE CARDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Even as state and local governments struggle to meet higher green energy standards with ever-shrinking budgets, billions of dollars of so-called Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds have gone unused. 

 BODY:
With the country reeling in 2008 from the financial crisis, Congress created a special program to help struggling local governments finance clean energy projects. Under the initiative, cities and counties could sell bonds to pay for a new wind farm or energy efficient windows at City Hall, and the federal government would help pick up the tab.
But hardly anyone bit. Even as state and local governments struggle to meet higher green energy standards with ever-shrinking budgets, billions of dollars of so-called Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds have gone unused. As of May 3, only about 20 percent of the bonds - roughly $663 million - had been issued, with many states not dipping into their allotments at all.
The cheap money, say policy analysts and bankers, is not worth the trouble of obtaining it. The program is relatively small. The requirements are confusing. And many investors don't find the tax benefits appealing.
 Federal officials still stand behind the program, pointing out that it has no expiration date.
"Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds remain a cost-effective financing option for state, local and tribal governments to make capital investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy production and research and development," Sabrina Siddiqui, a Treasury Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail message. "We are continuing to work with stakeholders, businesses and local officials on the ground to encourage usage of these bonds."
Like the popular program Build America Bonds, the conservation bonds offered states and municipalities a chance to tap into federal money to finance projects. Under the program, the federal government covers up to 70 percent of the applicable tax credit rate as a direct payment to the issuer or as a tax credit to the investor. For eligible localities, it can effectively bring their interest cost down to about 0.5 to 1.5 percent, according to Elizabeth Bellis of the Energy Programs Consortium, a research and policy group that represents state energy officials.
Some local governments have been tapping their share, mostly to reduce energy consumption in public buildings. The City of Los Angeles issued $131 million in bonds in 2010 to expand a wind farm, and St. Louis used $10.7 million in 2011 to finance loans for energy efficiency improvements to homes. In Boulder County, Colo., the municipality used its entire allotment for energy improvements at the jail and other public buildings, as well as for a clean energy loan program.
For Will Toor, a Boulder County commissioner, part of the appeal was being able to make comprehensive energy-saving improvements all at once, rather than over several years. It worked so well, he said, that the county looked into taking over unused allotments from other counties. "If we could get any more, we would very happily use it," he said.
But for the most part, state and local governments have stayed away. As of January, 33 states had not used any of their allocations, while a dozen more had used less than a third. Just six states had used more than half, led by Kansas, the only one to have spent it all.
Policy analysts said part of the problem was that there was not enough money to go around. Congress originally authorized $800 million for the program, but eventually increased that to $3.2 billion in 2009 as part of the stimulus act. Still, that's a relatively small sum for a national municipal bond program. By contrast, states and local governments sold $181 billion of Build America Bonds before the program expired in 2010.
Money for the conservation bonds was handed out to states based on population, which then divided it up among large cities and counties. That left many local governments with a sliver of the pie too thin to pursue projects.
State lawmakers in Hawaii, which received about $13 million, are trying to get around that limitation. They are working on a mechanism - a so-called clean energy bank - that will allow localities to pool their money and create larger, more economically efficient projects that could attract greater private investment.
Investment bankers also had trouble drumming up enough demand for the bonds. Investors generally prefer an interest payment rather than a tax credit, especially during a weak economic environment. Eventually, officials included an option for issuers to receive a cash payment from the Treasury Department, allowing them to pay out taxable interest to investors.
Municipalities have found the program difficult to navigate, as it wasn't always clear how clean energy projects could qualify. For example, localities could sell bonds for projects that reduced energy consumption in public buildings by 20 percent. But some officials were unsure how to calculate the savings, either for individual buildings or the overall group. Another category allowed governments to create "green community" projects, but the program offered little detail on what that meant.
The Energy Programs Consortium has been pressing federal officials to clarify the regulations. The group sent a letter to President Obama in January requesting that the Internal Revenue Service issue more guidelines, and in February a group of House Democrats sent another one as well. The Treasury Department is considering issuing interim guidelines, but the agency has not done so yet.
"Guidance from Treasury on a number of outstanding legal questions would help speed up the use of these funds and facilitate projects that have been delayed due to legal uncertainties," Ms. Bellis said. "These projects have the potential to create thousands of local jobs, update public buildings, develop local green industry and significantly reduce fossil fuel emissions."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); COUNTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSUMPTION (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Government Bonds; Energy; Legal/Regulatory

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



264 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Baby Boomers and the Shrinking Work Force

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: As America ages, the overall labor force participation rate will fall. But even excluding older Americans, participation rates have already declined sharply. 

 BODY:
Among the lowlights of the jobs report for April was the news that the share of adults who are either working or looking for work fell. For men, this measure - called the labor force participation rate - was at its lowest level since 1948, when the government first began keeping track.
I've received a number of e-mails from readers asking whether this decline can be attributed to the wave of baby-boomer retirements.
Yes, as America ages, its overall labor force participation rate will fall because older people are less likely to work. But even excluding older Americans, labor force participation rates have still fallen sharply over the last few decades, and especially in the last five years.
This chart shows the share of Americans 25 to 54 years old who are involved in the labor force, either by working or actively looking for work:
As you can see, this age group is also dropping out of the labor force. The participation rate fell after the 2001 recession, never recovered, and then started another slide that began in the financial crisis. This trend among prime-working-age Americans cannot be explained by baby boomers' retiring.
You may notice that the labor force participation rate had been climbing from the 1940s through about 1990. That rise reflects the fact that more women entered the labor force as gender roles evolved. Women's labor force participation rate continued rising through the late 1990s, dropped a couple of percentage points, and then more or less flat-lined.
The main reason the labor force has been declining in the last couple of decades, then, is that have been dropping out in droves. Here is a chart of labor force participation for workers 25 to 54, but showing men only:
Where are all these men going, and how are they supporting themselves, if they're not in the work force? My colleagues David Leonhardt and Louis Uchitellelooked into this questiona few years ago.

        
Retirement, Slipping Farther and Farther Away
        
People Are Not Leaving the Labor Force
        
More Americans Dropping Out of the Labor Force
        
Seniors Outnumber Teenagers in Job Force
        
Tighter Wallets for All, Especially the Oldest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (99%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (97%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); BABY BOOMERS (92%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); TRENDS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%) aging; April 2012 jobs report; Baby Boomers; dropping out of the labor force; labor force participation rates; reader response; Retirement; Labor and Jobs

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



265 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Staging the Self: 'The Hunger Games'

BYLINE: STANLEY FISH


HIGHLIGHT: An analysis of the trilogy and its relationship to the pastoral tradition. 

 BODY:
A couple of weeks ago my daughter visited from California. She brought with her the first volume of Suzanne Collins's "The Hunger Games." She read it in short order and drove to the local Barnes & Noble to get the other two. She finished them in a day, and then passed all three on to me. I devoured them and passed them on to my wife, who also read them in record time.
What accounts for three overeducated adults being so caught up in the story of a teenage girl - Katniss Everdeen - who lives in a dystopian future ruled and controlled by the decadent and cruel denizens of "The Capitol"? 
Many have commented on the excellence of the pacing (you're always on the hook) and on the inventiveness with which Collins devises the obstacles - both animate and inanimate, and a few things in between - that challenge Katniss and her fellow contestants as they play a gladiatorial, televised game whose point is to defeat one's opponents by killing them and so be the last person standing.
But the technical skills Collins displays are only a part of the explanation of the novels' power. The other part is the thematic obsession hinted at by the title: just what is it that the characters, and by extension the readers, hunger for? On the literal level the answer is obvious. Kept at a near-starvation level by their rulers, the inhabitants of the nation of Panem (bread) hunger for food, and one of Katniss's virtues is that as an expert archer she can provide it.

Food, however, is a metaphor in the trilogy for another kind of sustenance, the sustenance provided by an inner conviction of one's own worth and integrity. (Man cannot live by bread alone.) The hunger to be an authentic self is a basic constituent of the game we call life, and the difficulty of achieving that state - Polonius tells Laertes "to thine own self be true," but forgets to provide the how-to manual - is intensified for the "tributes," the name given to those selected by lot to be contestant-competitors who must exercise the twin skills of deception and violence if they are to survive. How can one maintain integrity in a context that mandates aggression and betrayal?
One of the tributes names that as the goal he desires more than survival. Peeta Mellark, in love with Katniss since the moment he laid eyes on her (the moment when he gave her bread), says to her, "I want to die as myself I don't want them to change me in there." Katniss, who relates the story in the first-person present tense, wonders, "How could he die as anyone but himself?" 
Her obtuse literalism is the flip side of her strength. "I'm not good at lying," she says to a mentor who counsels her to make up stories about herself that will gain the audience's sympathy. With her, what you see - stubbornness, ruthlessness, impatience, rudeness, bluntness - is what you get. Her actions are not self-consciously designed; if Peeta longs for authenticity, she cannot help displaying it; and although she doesn't understand it, her very inability to play to the crowd, to be anything but herself, is what draws the crowd to her. Peeta tries to explain it to her: "You're so ... pure." Another character nails it: she's "unscripted."
It is a great irony, then, that much of the plot turns on the one occasion when she play-acts. Aware that her safety and Peeta's safety (more a concern to her) depend on convincing the Capitol that the two are madly in love, she connives in the manufacturing of that impression; and as a result she is condemned to maintaining that fiction (or is it one? neither she nor the reader really knows) in a succession of staged events. 
Of course, in Panem, everything is a staged event, given that everything is seen by a nation-wide audience. And yet, in the midst of a relentless theatricality - Katniss is continually being made up by cosmeticians - everyone is hungry for the genuine. That is why it is so important for Katniss to simulate it, to give the people what they want, and what they want is to believe that the simulated is the real.
It is what we want, too. The present-tense narrative has the effect of creating the illusion of immediacy and as readers we fall in with the illusion, especially at those moments when the characters we are invested in engage in what feels like intimate conversation. But then the curtain is drawn back, and we realize what we had momentarily forgotten - that we are watching not reality, but a huge reality show, a pageant of bread and circuses, . 
The question of reality is poignantly raised by Peeta, who has been captured by the Capitol and subjected to physical and psychological torture in the course of which his memories have been replaced by manufactured ones, which tell him that Katniss is an enemy whom he must kill. He has realized his greatest fear; he is no longer himself, and as he struggles to return to what he was before he suffered a "change," he repeatedly asks of his own thoughts and perceptions, "real or not real?"
The last time he asks that question is when he seeks an assurance from Katniss: They have just made love, although the only reference to the act - which she describes as a "hunger," another hunger game - is the adverb "after": "So after, when he whispers, 'You love me. Real or Not Real?', I tell him, 'Real.'" But does that mean it is real or that it is just what she is telling him? We don't really know, just as we don't know whether the cycle of political, social and economic oppression has been broken or even ameliorated by the thousands of lives lost in the effort - successful, but to what end is not made clear - to dislodge the Capitol. 
The trilogy concludes with a pastoral moment - Katniss and her two children playing in a meadow. As a genre, the pastoral is a consciously indulged-in fiction, an imaginative removal from the world of duplicity, violence, ambition, a world whose shadow nevertheless hangs over the literary effort to shut it out. "," says Death. I am also present in the very landscape that would banish me. 
"The Hunger Games" is true to the pastoral tradition when it refuses to bring us to a realm where no games are being played. No unambiguously happy endings here. In the end, Katniss is rehearsing the stories she will tell her children (who "don't know they play on a graveyard") and describing the exercise she uses to push away her darkest thoughts. "It's like a game," she admits, "but there are worse games to play." That is the final line, the announcement not of a full but of a relative satisfaction. It is the best life can offer short of a religious vision conspicuously absent from the narrative. But it can be enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STARVATION (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%) 'hunger games'; Stanley Fish

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



266 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: In Kolkata, Clinton Talks Indian Retail and Iranian Oil

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: Clinton stressed the importance of United States - India relationship, and pushed for change from India. 

 BODY:
The U.S. secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, told a town hall meeting in Kolkata on Monday that she planned to discuss opening India's retail sector to foreign investment with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and that India should do even more to reduce its dependence on Iranian oil.
Mrs. Clinton also said she was a fan of the Bengali poet and composer Rabindranath Tagore, and joked that she and her husband are argumentative, much like Bengalis.
The secretary of state is on a three-day trip to India and is scheduled to meet later Monday with Ms. Banerjee, who has been one of the chief opponents of a proposal to allow multi-brand retailers like Walmart to enter India. "There is an enormous amount of experience that can be brought to India on supply-chain management, on developing relationships with small producers," Mrs. Clinton said Monday morning.
She spoke at a meeting at La Martiniere School for Girls, a private school established in 1836, in a session moderated by NDTV journalist Barkha Dutt. "I know how difficult it is for women to be elected anywhere," Mrs. Clinton told the crowd of hundreds of students and others meant to represent a cross-section of Kolkata. "When I meet a woman who has broken through those barriers, we share a common bond of having gone through the fire of electoral politics."
The primary purchasers of Iranian oil -- India, China, Japan and the European countries -- "are being asked to lower their supply to keep pressure on Iran," she said, while Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other suppliers are putting more oil into the market. There is an international consensus that these sanctions are working, she said.
"India understands the importance of trying to use diplomacy to resolve these difficult threats and is certainly working toward lowering their purchases of Iranian oil," she said. "We hope they will do even more."
The Secretary of State's visit coincides with a visit from Iranian businessmen to New Delhi and Mumbai. She flies to New Delhi Monday night, where she will meet with officials ahead of the "U.S. - India Strategic Dialogue" in Washington, D.C. June 13. On Tuesday, Iranian businessmen and Indian trade groups will have a press conference in New Delhi. 
The full Kolkata town meeting is here: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); RETAILERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); WOMEN (72%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) Banerjee, Mamata; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Dutt, Barkha; Tagore, Rabindranath; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Foreign Investments; United States International Relations; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; India; Iran; Kolkata (India); Wal-Mart Stores Inc|WMT|NYSE

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; WMT; NYSE

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%) Banerjee, Mamata; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Dutt, Barkha; Tagore, Rabindranath

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) India; Iran; Kolkata (India)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



267 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Incentive Perversity

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Economic incentives and rewards often encourage short-term bias, seeking an unfair advantage and neglect of others, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
It's all about incentives. The richer the reward, the more willing you are to work hard and take risks, and the faster the economy will grow. 
By this logic - elaborated by Mitt Romney's former business partner Edward Conard in a recent New York Times profile - income inequality benefits us all. 
Sloth and fear are singled out as economic sins that could condemn us to stagnation. Only the desire for more, more, more than anybody else can elicit the bold energy that economic growth requires. Only greed can redeem us. 
Effort is never misdirected. Risk is never carried to excess. You should thank the Higher Power for rewarding talents at the top.

Before doing so, consider the empirical evidence that faith in this particular set of incentives is seriously misplaced. 
The most recent global financial crisis showed that increasing the reward for risk can create temptations to conceal its dangers or offload it onto others. 
Managerial efforts to increase short-term profits sometimes come at the expense of long-term profits and environmental sustainability. Big winnings in a competitive game can be spent on efforts to change the rules of that game: lobbying expenditures often offer a higher payoff than investments in new technology. 
Research in behavioral economics offers a variety of reasons that economic incentives can backfire, including perverse effects on moral commitments.
High-stakes competition in educational testing contributes to increased cheating among both students and teachers. High-stakes competition in many sports contributes to use of performance-enhancing substances. 
Recentinvestigative reporting on the horse racing industry showed that higher purses were leading many owners to push unfit horses onto the track, increasing the likelihood of dangerous injuries to riders as well as their mounts. 
Differences in rewards can certainly offer incentive high performance. But if they become too extreme, negative effects kick in. 
Consider first the impact of reward on effort. As the economist Robert Frank emphasizes in his new book, "The Darwin Economy," most people care less about their absolute income than how they compare with others. Winner-take-all dynamics can lead to an arms race in which the size of top prizes gets larger and larger, and we pay more and more to elicit the same amount of effort. 
For instance, the ratio of executive pay to that of average workers in the United States has grown by almost a factor of 10 since 1980. Analysis of pay-setting practices suggests that corporate boards try to pay their own chief executives more than those at comparable companies, creating a ratchet effect that has more to do with relative status than actual effort. 
Shareholders at Citigroup recently voted against an executive pay package they considered overly generous.
Second, consider the effect of effort on performance. Additional effort tends to have a positive effect but with diminishing returns. When people are already trying as hard as they can, extravagant rewards either go to waste or, worse, encourage cheating. 
Finally, consider the effect of performance on success. In a competitive game, people are not likely to put forth much effort unless they perceive some likelihood of winning. Yet unequal rewards often accumulate over lifetimes and are perpetuated within family dynasties, creating barriers to competition. 
Recent research suggests that the United States, with comparatively high levels of income inequality, is also characterized by lower levels of income mobility than many other affluent countries. 
Good incentives are always a good idea. But it's not as easy to design them as it might seem, because they should discourage a host of economic sins -- not just sloth and fear, but also cruelty and greed. 

        
Not Wanting Jobs
        
Saluting Teamwork
        
Homemaker Dad, Breadwinner Mom
        
Just Try Harder
        
Utopian Capitalism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); MAMMALS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HORSE RACING (70%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (68%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (66%); ACADEMIC TESTING (65%); SCHOOL CHEATING (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (52%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%) Daily Economist; Executive Compensation (Des);; greed; incentives; Income Inequality; moral hazard; morality; Nancy Folbre; risk; risk management; risk-taking; wealth; work incentives; Romney, Mitt; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Motivation and Incentive Programs; Today's Economist

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



268 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Scrambled

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: The latest political news from today's Times and a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
Former Gov. Angus King of Maine, an independent, scrambled what both parties thought would be a clean pickup for the Senate seat being vacated by Maine's famously moderate Republican, Olympia J. Snowe. His name recognition and popularity vaulted him ahead of the nearly dozen lesser-known candidates jockeying for the Republican and Democratic nominations. He refuses to say whom he would support for majority leader next year, which may decide which party controls an evenly divided Senate, Jonathan Weisman reports.

        
The Ivy League has started opening its doors to military officers - like retired Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal - so students can learn firsthand about the military as part of a college education, Elisabeth Bumiller writes. Since Vietnam and the end of the draft, the military has changed from a demoralized army into an all-volunteer force far better regarded because of the wars of the last decade.

        
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said on Sunday that he was "absolutely comfortable" with same-sex marriages, a position well beyond the "evolving" views that President Obama has said he holds on the issue, Michael Barbaro writes. Mr. Biden's unexpectedly expansive remarks are likely to intensify pressure on Mr. Obama to take a clearer stance on the matter before the fall election.
Happenings in Washington:

        
President Obama will hold a conference call with elected officials and student government leaders to discuss student loan interest rates.

        
The Senate will consider a motion to proceed on the Stop the Student Loan Interest Rate Hike Act.

        
Jill Biden will attend a reception at the British ambassador's residence to meet teams of wounded American and British military personnel and veterans who have just taken part in the third annual Warrior Games in Colorado.

        
Prince Harry and the United Nations secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, will receive Distinguished Leadership Awards from the Atlantic Council.

        
The Weekend Word: Strategies
        
The Early Word: Bin Laden's Letters
        
The Early Word: Hazards
        
The Early Word: Winding Down
        
The Early Word: Standoffs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (76%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); MARRIAGE (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: ANGUS KING (90%); JOE BIDEN (77%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (54%); PRINCE HARRY (54%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



269 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Sell A.I.G. Shares at $30.50 Apiece

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: The Treasury Department has announced plans to sell $5 billion worth of American International Group stock, as the insurer slowly recovers from the depths of the financial crisis. 

 BODY:
The government continues to unwind its stake in American International Group, as the insurer slowly recovers from the depths of the financial crisis.
The Treasury Department announced on Sunday that it would sell 163,934,426 shares of A.I.G. at $30.50 apiece. The $5 billion stock sale is expected to reduce the government's stake in the company to 63 percent from 70 percent.
A.I.G. plans to buy back around $2 billion of the stock. In March, when the Treasury sold $6 billion of A.I.G. shares at $29 apiece, A.I.G. bought back $3 billion worth of shares. 
"We're continuing to make significant progress exiting our investment in A.I.G.," Timothy G. Massad, the assistant secretary for financial stability, said in a statement. "We remain hopeful that taxpayers will ultimately recover every single dollar invested in the company, which is something few would have expected during the depths of the financial crisis."
The sale is the latest effort by the government to unwind its holdings in A.I.G. In 2008, the government undertook a huge bailout of the insurer, eventually providing $182 billion in aid. After the current offering, the government said its total investment related to A.I.G. would stand at $39 billion. 
The government is taking advantage of the rebound in A.I.G.'s stock. Its shares are up more than 40 percent since the beginning of the year, closing at $32.83 on Friday. In premarket trading on Monday, A.I.G. stock stood at $30.52, roughly in line with the offering price. The Treasury considers its break-even price is $28.73.
Many of the insurer's old assets are also finding new homes. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York has been steadily selling mortgage-backed bonds and other assets that were taken from A.I.G.'s portfolio into special vehicles, called Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane III, as part of the bailout. This year, the New York Fed has sold bonds with a face value of billions of dollars to banks including Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, Barclays and Deutsche Bank Securities.
As it did in stock sales, A.I.G. bought back some of those bonds for its own balance sheet. In February, it said it had purchased "just under" $2 billion in face value from the Maiden Lane II portfolio.

        
A.I.G. Repays Additional $1.5 Billion to Government
        
Conflicted, and Often Getting a Pass

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (95%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); BONDS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%) American International Group; Treasury Department; American International Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Treasury Department

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



270 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Richard Branson's Head

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: a two-second pitch, battle of the Pauls, restaurants perform, and are entrepreneurs fleeing? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: Optimism Up, Hiring Down
Gallup reports that the optimism of small-business owners has risen to its highest since 2008. Optimism is also up among chief financial officers. Small-business revenues are recovering from their recessionary depths. The latest jobs report is a disappointment, and ADP says there's a slowdown in hiring. Weekly unemployment claims fall slightly. Meanwhile, small-business net employment growth is outpacing the national average. But small-business hiring took a step back in April, and Joyce M. Rosenberg explains why. The number of new companies continues to slide.
The Economy: Heading to the Cliff
Federal Reserve policy makers are sounding the alarm over a "fiscal cliff" at the end of this year, when "scheduled U.S. tax hikes and spending cuts could pose a big threat to the fragile economic recovery." Two Pauls debate whose economic policies are more outdated. Lawmakers, according to the Treasury Department, will not have to refight their epic battle over the debt ceiling until after the November elections. Alan Greenspan says stocks are "very cheap," while Martin Feldstein says we have a Fed-fueled stock bubble. Lance Roberts says monetary and fiscal policies have little effect on when recessions occur.
The Data: Restaurants Perform

Personal income and expenditures increased. The Restaurant Performance Index (pdf) matches its post-recession high. Construction spending (pdf) rises slightly. The I.S.M. manufacturing index indicates faster expansion but the nonmanufacturing index shows slower growth. General Motors lifts its outlook. Steel consumption is expected to be strong.Factory orders fell in March by the most in three years.
Management: Ridiculously Simple
David Butcher shares six tips to motivate employees, including: "Be specific in praise." Uzi Shmilovici says the earlier you start collecting and analyzing data, the better your decisions. Terrence Russell explains how to be in the office without being in the office. An entrepreneur who started 11 companies over a 20-year period documents his stumbles in a book. Joe Brancatelli explains why United Airlines is the worst ever(again). The Jetman demonstrates a better way to travel. Here is a ridiculously simple way to get more revenue and build your audience. Tara Hornor explains what every female business owner needs to know. Mike Michalowicz says this management method is a better way to handle stressful situations. Lynn Greiner says that business-process management will help clear the bottlenecks that can hinder a business. There were 13 occupational fatalities a day in 2010.
Marketing: A Two-Second Pitch
Virgin Airlines lets you use Richard Branson's head to cool your drinks. Yahoo introduces an online marketing dashboard for small businesses. Jeff Bullas offers five ways to turn Twitter into your most powerful social media tool. Diana Maria says there are three things you need to know about keywords. Tuesday is the best day for auto brands to publish Facebook content (but Sunday is the most engaging day for telecom and consumer goods). Kevin Casey gives five tips for handling complaints on social media, including: "Don't forget you're still dealing with people." Here's a surprise: social-media-savvy consumers will spend more when they get good service and drop companies when they don't. Tracey Lawton says there is a five-step checklist for sending out e-mail broadcasts. Social media marketing is nice, but TV ads still rule. Here's a two-second business pitch that worked. Can you guess which age group sends the most text messages? Franny Oxford gives advice for speaking to strangers at professional events. Ashton Kutcher looks for a date (and gets in trouble). Anna Farmery says that this new cultural business model will emerge over the next few years.
Start-Up: Go to Delaware, Young Man
Some say start-up chief executives crave venture capital, not crowdsourcing. A tech start-up raises the profile of small businesses - and $4 million. Peter Thiel has three rules for starting a business, including, "Be a Delaware C-corp.": "This separates your business and personal affairs, offers flexibility when it comes to issuing stock, and makes it possible to exit the business by going public." A "Pinterest for commerce" start-up is growing 20 to 30 percent month-over-month. Here are six ways to lure talented engineers to your start-up.
Around the Country: Philadelphia?
Philadelphia sets its sights on becoming America's next big tech town. A new TV show features a skilled pair of entrepreneurs who trade up from low-value items to get what they want. Street Fight plans a "Summit West" on local marketing strategies. A new report explains why companies relocate. These are the 10 most expensive ballparks. Chief Executive magazine lists its best and worst states to do business. A student has 13 years of perfect attendance.
Around the World: Luxembourg?
Michael T. Snyder offers 22 signs that the Spanish economy is heading into a great depression. Unemployment reaches a record high in the Euro zone. Darcie Connell suggests five reasons entrepreneurs flee America, including a desire to escape from suburbia: many expats "grew tired of suburban sprawl." America presses China over its currency. Here are 42 things you will see only in China. TripAdvisor users say London is the best place to visit, and this flyover shows why. Canadians dominate the world's 10 strongest banks. And in case you didn't know, Luxembourg is the fifth-largest holder of American securities, debt and equity.
Finance: Selling Out
One study finds small-business owners are finding it less difficult to obtain credit; another shows there was less lending to small businesses in March as companies lost confidence in the economy. TD Bank kicks off a campaign to discuss the borrowing needs of 30,000 small businesses. John Adams reports that banks are finally putting together the right mix of payments and banking technology to satisfy small-business clients. Sales of small businesses rise as prices decline. The Small Business Administration needs investors for its new early stage capital program. Citibank rolls out a rewards program for small businesses.
Red Tape: Imports Week
Contractors are preparing for new rules. John Arensmeyer says small businesses want the government to invest in clean energy. Apple avoids paying a lot of taxes. Sandra Block reports that most student loans would be unaffected by the coming interest rate increase. Scott Lincicome reports on a new Web site and an "imports week" sponsored by several trade associations that rely on imports to remain competitive. Joe Smith explains how to use a paper towel. The Small Business Administration adds a business matchmaking event to its National Small Business Week schedule. A lion tries to consume a baby.
Technology: Blackberry 10
The geek world likes the new Blackberry 10 and a college geek automates his dorm room. The Android phone is failing to get into businesses. Greenpeace is after some companies for their "dirty cloud" computing. Barnes & Noble has a partnership with Microsoft. Intuit grabs for a bigger chunk of the small-business, software-as-a-service market. New wearable devices can track people through a wireless network. Marc Andreessen says there is no tech bubble (and the smartphone is still underhyped). Google introduces automatic translation in Gmail. Dave Mosher explains a future of automatic pilots and robotic farmers. A study says the cloud saves the government more than $5 billion a year. Facebook is now helping organ donors. Evernote is worth $1 billion. Symantec reports that small-company security problems can threaten large corporate nets. M.I.T.'s Technology Review identifies 10 technologies set to transform the world. A computer glitch summons 1,200 residents to jury duty and causes a huge traffic jam.
The Week's Bests
Prerna Gupta explains why entrepreneurs become disillusioned: "There is no such thing as success. It is a moving target. A mirage. By the time you attain what you thought was your wildest dream, reality has moved on and left your dreams in the dust. And the desire for success grows stronger still."
David Lavenda says that great ideas often come in pairs: "Ideas have their unique time in history. When there is a profound interest in solving a problem, more than one person will work on it, and each will have access to the same assortment of knowledge and underlying technology. What develops is a race to make the discovery or create the invention. And in some cases, a race's 'photo finish' produces a duplicate invention."
Gabriel Aidra thinks team building is a waste of time: "I'm not saying that relationships and communication and cooperation aren't important, they most certainly are, but going to a team-building workshop ... that's like explaining the concept of friendship to two strangers and then expecting them to be friends. ... It just makes no sense."
This Week's Question: Are you disillusioned?
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: Where Is the Recovery?
        
This Week in Small Business: The Cookiegate Special
        
This Week in Small Business: Raising Caine
        
This Week in Small Business: Meatball or Sausage?
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); RESTAURANTS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (73%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); AIRLINES (73%); DEBT CEILING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); TAX LAW (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (63%); SOCIAL MEDIA (61%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); TAX INCREASES (53%) economy; Small Business; Banking and Financial Institutions; Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (60%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



271 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Congress Returns to Full Agenda Awash in Election Year Politics

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: As Congress returns Monday after a week's recess, various pieces of legislation move to the front burner of partisan discord. 

 BODY:
For months, the Obama campaign has plotted to run directly against Republicans in Congress. With Mitt Romney now settled in as the presumptive presidential nominee and leader of his party, Democrats are hoping that some disenchantment with the House Republicans' legislative agenda - and the frequent intransigence of some of its most conservative members - will help bolster President Obama's standing, and give some glow to their own House and Senate races. 
 As Congress returns Monday after a week's recess, that strategy will be put to one of its first major tests as various pieces of legislation move to the front burner of partisan discord. 
 The most high profile fight is over how to extend interest rates on student loans. Before leaving town, the House passed a bill that would prevent rates on subsidized undergraduate loans from reverting from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent, but would pay for the measure by removing $5.9 billion from a prevention program within the health care law. 
Senate Democrats will now move forward with their own bill - beginning with a procedural vote on Tuesday -- that would extend the rates by closing some tax loopholes for those with high incomes. They have dismissed the House bill, which Mr. Obama already said he would veto, as damaging a health care program that aids women and children. 
But the problem for Democrats is that 13 of their own members voted for the House bill - helping to put it over the top when scores of Republicans who dislike the idea of extending the loan rates voted no - and it is not clear that the health program in question is especially beneficial to women. 
House Republicans have their own problem with the many members of their own conference opposing a bill that is popular with many middle class American families struggling to pay college bills. This is the fight to watch - will Mr. Obama get to accuse Republicans of holding out on students, as Democrats hope, or will Republicans be effective at pressing their case that their measure is most reasonable, quieting the Democrat's charge? 
 A similar dynamic is at work on a transportation bill, which will slide into a bipartisan, bicameral conference committee this week. Again, many House Democrats voted for a short-term extensionpassed in the House, referred to by House Speaker John A. Boehner as the "Keystone bill" for its provision that would speed up approval processes of a pipeline proposal. 
But many Republicans also voted for a longer-term Senate version that had no such provision and was generally less controversial. 
So, will Democrats get to live another day explaining how the original House bill was such a mess it could barely get to that chamber's floor, or will Republicans succeed in using the measure to pound the table with their claims that Mr. Obama does not support domestic oil production, even though that case is hardly without its own flaws? 
Many Democrats support the Keystone project, so the political scorecard from this highway bill - which means a great deal to states and localities - will begin to be filled in this week. 
Then, there is the Violence Against Women Act, a once-not-controversial measure that has become mired in partisan politics. The Senate - with many Republicans concurring -- overwhelmingly passed a renewal measure that would subject non-American Indian suspects of domestic violence to prosecution on reservations in tribal courts and expand the number of temporary visas for illegal-immigrant victims of domestic violence. 
Those new additions to the law have offended House Republicans, who will begin to work this week on the fine points of their own measure that is stripped of these provisions, setting up a fight between Democrats, who have tried all spring to portray Republicans as "anti-woman" and Mr. Boehner, who is trying with all his might to push back. This measure could well enhance - or kneecap - another central campaign theme for Democrats, depending on how it unfolds this week and next. 
A huge spending fight is also on the horizon this week as the House Budget Committee completes a $300 billion 10-year spending package that would maintain defense spending but makes large cuts to nutrition and other programs for poor Americans. The budget priorities of each party are what best defines their political differences, and may yet define the 2012 campaign. 
 Finally, while Democrats hoped to use Republican opposition to extend the life of the Export-Import Bank to demonstrate how the party is hurting the nation's fragile economic recovery, Representatives Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House minority whip, and Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, have cobbled together a deal that would increase the bank's lending limit to $140 billion over three years, a 40 percent increase from the current $100 billion limit that the bank has almost reached. But such an agreement will run into the buzz saw of many conservatives who want to let the institution die. 
 Mr. Boehner has attempted to stamp out various controversies as they have arisen by coming up with fast House bills and by keeping the focus of the Republican message on jobs and gas prices, but his own party colleagues have sometimes undermined that effort. Democrats believe their have the upper political hand on bills pertaining to women and core middle-class policy issues, but when their own members help bail out House Republican bills, it hurts their efforts. 
Watch. Wait. 

        
Members Disapprove of Debt Ceiling Increase, No Matter What Their Votes Say
        
The Week Ahead in Congress: Obama Brings Jobs Bill to Hill
        
The Week Ahead in Congress: Returning From Recess to a Full Plate
        
Congress Returns for Another Round on Jobs, Spending
        
House Passes Compromise Debt Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); FAMILY (72%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (68%); HEALTH CARE (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%) votes; week ahead; Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Hoyer, Steny H; Law and Legislation; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Export-Import Bank of US; House of Representatives; Senate; Congress

ORGANIZATION: Export-Import Bank of US; House of Representatives; Senate

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); ERIC CANTOR (73%); STENY HOYER (73%) Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Hoyer, Steny H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



272 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2531 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Buffett Talks Succession and Taxes at Berkshire's Annual Meeting | Tens of thousands of shareholders gathered at the CenturyLink Center in Omaha to take in Warren E. Buffett's pronouncements on his massive conglomerate, the global economy and whatever else tickles his or investors' fancy. DealBook's Andrew Ross Sorkin was one of the reporters on stage to ask questions as well.
Hanging over this year's festivities was Mr. Buffett's disclosure that he had received a diagnosis of prostate cancer. He has taken pains to emphasize that the disease was caught early and that he plans to keep working for a long time.
Mr. Buffett addressed the succession issue again, as well as the ongoing controversy over his principle of raising tax rates on the wealthiest Americans and his management philosophies. He also briefly mentioned a deal that would have been worth more than $20 billion, but said he had discarded the idea after deciding the takeover would have been too expensive. DealBook 
Treasury to Sell A.I.G. Shares at $30.50 Apiece | The government continues to unwind its stake in American International Group, as the insurer slowly recovers from the depths of the financial crisis.
The Treasury Department announced that it would sell 163,934,426 shares of A.I.G. -- a stake worth roughly $5 billion -- at $30.50 apiece. A.I.G. plans to buy back around $2 billion of the stock.
"We're continuing to make significant progress exiting our investment in A.I.G.," Timothy G. Massad, the assistant secretary for financial stability, said in a statement. "We remain hopeful that taxpayers will ultimately recover every single dollar invested in the company, which is something few would have expected during the depths of the financial crisis." DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
Markets to Give France a Grace Period, Analysts Say | The incoming French president, Franois Hollande, may spend more than investors would prefer to revive the French economy, and may not immediately undertake certain labor market and business reforms that are seen as necessary. But analysts say investors are likely to give France a grace period, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
A Contrarian Bet on Greece | Just two months after investors in Greek debt were forced to accept a 75 percent loss on their holdings, some distressed-debt investors see a buying opportunity, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
An Heir Takes His Place at L'Oral | Jean-Victor Meyers, 25, must convince shareholders he has what it takes to sit on the board of L'Oral in place of his grandmother, Liliane Bettencourt, the matriarch of the French cosmetics company, The New York Times reports. Looming over the transition is the question of whether Nestl, which owns just under 30 percent of the company, might one day make a play for the 30 percent stake owned by the Bettencourt family. NEW YORK TIMES
After Facebook, Wielding Political Influence | Chris Hughes, a Facebook co-founder who recently became the publisher and editor in chief of The New Republic after buying a majority stake in the magazine, has been making the rounds in New York political and literary society, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Judge Halts Martin Marietta Bid for Vulcan Materials | In granting an injunction, Chancellor Leo E. Strine Jr. of the Delaware Chancery Court found that Martin Marietta had breached confidentiality agreements between the two companies. DealBook 
Westlake Abandons $1.2 Billion Bid for Georgia Gulf | The decision follows acquisition talks with Georgia Gulf's management that had been aimed at creating one of the largest producers of building materials like olefins and vinyls. DealBook 
Micron Technology Said to Enter Exclusive Talks for Elpida | The chip maker Micron Technology won the right to hold exclusive talks after offering more than $2.5 billion for Elpida Memory, its failed Japanese rival, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person with direct knowledge of the matter. REUTERS
DigitalGlobe Rejects Offer From GeoEye | DigitalGlobe, a satellite imaging company, said on Sunday that the $792 million takeover offer from its rival GeoEye was too low, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Citigroup Records a Higher Value for Brokerage Stake | Citigroup, which is selling pieces of its stake in the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney brokerage, said in a regulatory filing that the fair value of the asset was higher than the $10 billion recorded on its balance sheet, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Comcast to Unload Part of A&E Stake | Comcast said in a regulatory filing last week that its NBCUniversal division exercised an option to sell "a substantial portion" of its stake in A&E Television Networks, a deal that could be worth about $2 billion, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Buyer for Taiwanese TV Company Laments Regulatory Delay | The conglomerate Want Want China Holdings said delays in the approval of its $2.4 billion deal to buy China Network Systems from MBK Partners had cost it an additional $300 million, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Stock Trading Continues to Fall After Crisis | The average daily trades of American stocks on all exchanges was 6.5 billion in April, nearly half of the peak in 2008 of 12.1 billion, according to Credit Suisse Trading Strategy, The New York Times reports. This decline has come even as American stocks have doubled in price in the last three years. NEW YORK TIMES
Broker Rebates Seen as a Conflict of Interest | Payments that brokers collect from stock exchanges in return for sending them business could be costing mutual funds, pension funds and other investors as much as $5 billion a year, according to a new study by the financial consulting firm Woodbine Associates, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Ally Financial's Mortgage Woes | The overall picture at Ally Financial, in which the government still holds a 74 percent stake, is improving. But the company's mortgage unit, Residential Capital, is in trouble, prompting speculation that it may file for bankruptcy, Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Barclays Aims to Attract U.S. Depositors | The British bank Barclays is opening an online savings bank in the United States as a way to help finance its American credit card business, and is offering depositors interest rates of about 1 percent, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Signs of Life in London's Financial Job Market | In London's financial sector, new job vacancies increased by 9 percent in April compared with March, but they were still down 27 percent compared with the period a year earlier, according to a recruiter, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Why Bankers Quit | New York magazine surveyed 74 current or recently departed finance workers who are members of Escape the City, an online community that offers advice for "corporate professionals who want to 'do something different,'" to find out what gave them second thoughts about working in finance. NEW YORK
UBS Takes Risky Mortgage Securities to Market | This week, the Swiss bank is seeking buyers for collateralized debt obligations with a face value of $1.5 billion, dating to the height of the real estate boom in the United States, Bloomberg News writes. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Blackstone Said to Be Set for a Calpers Investment | The Blackstone Group is close to securing an account from Calpers, the largest public pension fund in the United States, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Blackstone Buys a Singapore Business Park | With the purchase of the StarHub Green project from SEB Asset Management for about $172 million, the Blackstone Group made its first acquisition in Singapore, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the deal. REUTERS
3i Said to Be in Talks to Sell Enterprise | The British private equity firm 3i is in advanced talks with the Spanish infrastructure company Ferrovial to sell Enterprise, which offers support services to utilities and public sector customers, The Financial Times reports, citing unidentified people close to the situation. FINANCIAL TIMES
HgCapital Puts Drug Company on the Block | HgCapital is looking to sell Mercury Pharma, which it bought in December for 178 million ($287 million), and has chosen Jefferies to handle the sale, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Intensifies Attack on Yahoo Amid Storm Over Padded Rsums | Third Point, which is in the middle of a contentious proxy battle with Yahoo, called for the dismissal of the company's chief executive, Scott Thompson, after revealing that he had inaccurately stated his credentials. DealBook 
A Cheerleader for the Hedge Fund Industry | Anthony Scaramucci, the founder and managing partner of SkyBridge Capital, who is trying to make hedge fund investing accessible to the less-wealthy, "thinks attention is an undervalued commodity," Jessica Pressler writes in New York magazine. "While his peers in the hedge fund industry only occasionally emerge, groundhoglike, to declaim somberly on the markets, 'the Mooch,' as he is known, is a petite man-shaped fireball of energy, constantly orbiting the public sphere and blazing a trail through social events with a steady stream of charmingly self-effacing stories." NEW YORK
Icahn Said to Sell LightSquared Debt | Carl C. Icahn sold his $250 million debt holdings in LightSquared, the beleaguered wireless company run by Philip A. Falcone, apparently making a profit, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. In addition, LightSquared's creditors were said to grant a second week-long extension to Mr. Falcone in negotiations to avoid a potential bankruptcy. REUTERS | BLOOMBERG NEWS
Ackman's Borders Bet | An upcoming book, "The Alpha Masters: Unlocking the Genius of the World's Top Hedge Funds," says that William A. Ackman lost $200 million on his investment in Borders last year, calling it "a big mistake on the buy," The New York Post reports. NEW YORK POST
Paulson Said to Extend a Losing Streak | John A. Paulson's Advantage Plus fund lost 6.7 percent in April, bringing its slump this year to 8.8 percent, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people briefed on the returns. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Is Zuckerberg Ready to Lead a Public Company? | Henry Blodget writes in the New York magazine cover story: "As Facebook embarks on its I.P.O. 'road show,' the question of just how good Zuckerberg is will trail it: His control of the company is such that a bet on the company's stock is a bet on him. Investors will be wagering on an entrepreneur who's committed himself to getting better and better as a leader. But they'll also be betting on one whose commitment to his long-term vision is so deep that he just might drive Wall Street crazy." NEW YORK
Zuckerberg's Control Over Facebook May Be a New Model | In at least 10 of last year's tech I.P.O.'s, a special class of shares gave founders more votes than new shareholders, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
The 'Willy Wonka' of Silicon Valley | Mark Pincus, Zynga's chief executive, who refers to himself half-seriously as "a kind of Willy Wonka," presides over a headquarters that resembles one of the company's games, The Financial Times writes. FINANCIAL TIMES
A Week of Small I.P.O.'s | This week's deals, none of which is larger than $200 million, may compete for attention with Facebook, which is due to trade next week, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Which Start-Up Is the Next Big Thing? | Path, Taskrabbit, Square, Quora, Dropbox, Airtime, Pinwheel, Pinterest, Uber? The New York Times lets you vote on your choice. NEW YORK TIMES
In Scotland, Angel Investors Organize | Scottish angel investors operate with an unusual degree of organization, forming syndicates that, as one professor put it, behave "like mini venture capital funds," The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Letting You Text Pictures You Probably Shouldn't | Snapchat, an increasingly popular iPhone app, lets users send each other pictures that automatically disappear after several seconds, but the service is not without risks, Nick Bilton writes on Bits. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Dewey Leadership Acknowledges the Firm Could Close | In a memorandum sent on Friday afternoon, Dewey & LeBoeuf management acknowledged for the first time that the firm could shut down. DealBook 
Dewey & LeBoeuf Confronts a New Reality | James B. Stewart writes in The New York Times: "The circumstances at Dewey may turn out to be extreme. But the firm's messy decline lays bare the harsh realities of today's law practice, and shatters the perception, still held by many members of the bar, that however transformed in recent decades by the realities of the market, law is at heart still a guild, a brotherhood (and increasingly a sisterhood) -- in short, a profession more than a business." NEW YORK TIMES
Spanish Banks Resist a 'Bad Bank' Rescue Proposal | The largest Spanish commercial banks, Santander and BBVA, which have big investments overseas, have opposed the idea of having the government set up an asset management company to house banks' troubled assets, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Spain Said to Plan a Rescue of Bankia | Spain plans to provide Bankia with cash injections and new managers, as part of a rescue of a bank whose troubled loans have placed it at the center of the country's crisis, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people. REUTERS
Regulators Announce Tighter Rules for Municipal Bonds | Looking to prevent debt disasters like the one in Jefferson County, Ala., federal regulators issued new rules on Friday that are intended to curb practices like Wall Street firms' underwriting a state's bonds while helping other customers trade against them, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Crackdown on Corruption Overseas | James Surowiecki writes in The New Yorker: "When you read the business pages these days, you can be forgiven for thinking that international commerce is a cesspool of graft. Yet, by historical standards, things have never been cleaner. What's changed is how strenuously governments are cracking down on corruption." NEW YORKER
India Said to Begin an Antitrust Investigation of Google | Indian regulators are looking into Google's online advertising business, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified government officials familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Case for Regulatory Robots | Jason Zweig writes in The Wall Street Journal: "Investment advisers are being examined infrequently, inconsistently and incompletely -- largely because regulators are outnumbered and reliant on outmoded technology. In a business world that routinely runs on 'big data,' it's time to put computers on the case." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); CANCER (75%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (63%); COSMETICS (62%); PROSTATE DISEASE (56%); PROSTATE CANCER (55%); TOILETRIES MFG (50%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); CENTURYLINK INC (58%); NESTLE SA (50%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (83%); OR (BIT) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); CTL (NYSE) (58%); NESN (SWX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%); LILIANE BETTENCOURT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



273 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: New Obama Ad Focuses on Finishing the Job

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS


HIGHLIGHT: The Obama campaign will begin an extensive advertising campaign this week in nine battleground states, with a commercial that frames the president's first term around a narrative of momentum and unfinished progress. 

 BODY:
The Obama campaign will begin an extensive advertising campaign this week in nine battleground states, part of a broader effort by the president to frame his first term around a narrative of momentum and unfinished progress.
The president's argument to voters, summed up in the new 60-second commercial: let me finish the job. 
The campaign did not immediately release the cost of this latest ad buy but said it would be significant.
The commercial begins with a retelling of the events that led to the Great Recession, events that an announcer reminds viewers actually began before Mr. Obama took office: worst financial collapse since the Great Depression; 4.4 million jobs lost; stock market plummets.
"Some said our best days were behind us. He believed in us. He fought for us," the announcer says before reciting a list of the president's accomplishments, like the auto industry rescue and the killing of Osama bin Laden. "But we're coming back."
The president's political strategists believe that it is important to counter the criticism coming from Mitt Romney and Republicans that Mr. Obama had his chance to turn the country around but failed to do so. 
"When you tell the story from the other side, it's that one day the president showed up to a blank slate and now things aren't good," said Larry Grisolano, director of paid media for the Obama campaign. "Having that narrative, knowing the complete story is essential to making the right judgment."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (53%) Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Ad Watch; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



274 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Explaining the Times's Battleground State Ratings

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: In 11 states that President Obama carried in 2008, nine are now up for grabs and Mitt Romney holds an early advantage in the other two, the latest Times ranking shows. 

 BODY:
The Electoral Map: The Swing States  217 Solid +
Leaning Obama 115
 Tossup 206 Solid +
Leaning Romney 
View Full Map and Make Your Own Electoral Scenarios
Six months before Election Day, nine states that President Obama carried four years ago are now firmly up for grabs in the latest New York Times ranking of key battleground states, while Mitt Romney holds an early advantage in two other states the president won in 2008.
As the general election race intensifies, Mr. Obama begins with a slim edge in several critical states and has a variety of paths to winning re-election, according to the Times analysis of electoral votes. But there are considerable opportunities for Mr. Romney, whose candidacy is in a position of strength in enough states where a victory could deny the president a second term.
 The Times ratings, which will be reviewed periodically throughout the campaign, find nine states are locked in the tossup category: Colorado, Florida, Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin. 
 In the quest to win the necessary 270 electoral votes, the president has 185 solidly on the Democratic side and Mr. Romney has 158 in safe Republican territory. The analysis finds 115 electoral votes in the tossup category, with 32 leaning Democratic and 48 leaning Republican. 
 The Times rankings are based on interviews with Republican and Democratic strategists and the economic climate, political volatility, polling and electoral history in each state. Here is a brief rationale for the current collection of tossup states:
 Colorado: The president's victory here in 2008 was among his favorites, after the state had voted Republican in eight of the nine prior presidential races. A wariness of big government is testing Mr. Obama this time, but Mr. Romney faces his own challenge appealing to independents and women, whose support was critical to Democratic wins in races for the Senate and governor in 2010. 
Florida: A wave of home foreclosures and a sour economy has complicated Mr. Obama's path to a repeat victory here. A growing number of conservative retirees offer Mr. Romney hope, but the outcome could hinge on whether he can win over Hispanic voters, particularly younger Cuban Americans in southern Florida and Puerto Ricans in central Florida. 
 Iowa: The state that paved Mr. Obama's path to the presidency could complicate his re-election, despite an economy that is more robust than many other states. Mr. Romney faces a challenge of exciting evangelical voters who did not support him earlier this year at the Iowa caucuses. In a close race, these six electoral votes are critical to both sides.
 New Hampshire: The president is leading in some early polls, but the state is too volatile to make any predictions at this point. Mr. Romney has been seen as a favorite son, having been governor in the state next door, Massachusetts. The Republican gains in 2010 have created a backlash among some Democrats in a state that will be a backdrop for the presidential campaign.
 Nevada: The Romney campaign has a ready-made laboratory to argue that the policies of the Obama administration have not worked, particularly in a state with the nation's highest rates of home foreclosure and unemployment. But the president is traveling to the state again and again, hoping his appeal to Hispanic and lower-income voters will deliver the state again.
 Ohio: It is hard to picture Mr. Romney winning the White House without Ohio. An improving economy could help Mr. Obama, particularly with a revival in the auto industry, but the state's conservative leanings still pose a significant challenge. It will likely break late, with neither candidate winning the early enthusiasm race.
 Pennsylvania: Republicans have lost the last five presidential elections here, but it is not an automatic lock for Mr. Obama. Democrats have an edge in voter registration, but new voting laws concern party leaders. This state could eventually lean Democratic as the campaign moves along, but the president has yet to prove that the key independent voters will be on his side.
 Virginia: The population shifts in Northern Virginia are changing the state's political demographics. The president carried the state by seven percentage points in 2008, but that margin belies the true fight underway in the state this time. This is one of the states Mr. Romney needs to put back in the Republican column if he is to be elected.
 Wisconsin: The political climate here is volatile, given the June recall election of Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican. A flood of outside money - pro-union and antiunion - has created a charged dynamic. The president has an early edge over Mr. Romney, but the environment is too uncertain to safely move the state into the Democratic-leaning column.
 The Times rankings also include four states that lean Democratic, including Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico and Maine, which allows its electoral votes to be divided and Mr. Romney is fighting for at least one. 
In this group, Michigan and New Mexico are the most competitive and could become true tossups as the race progresses. In an interview last year, Mr. Romney declined to commit to competing aggressively in his native Michigan, saying he would make his determination on the state of the race rather than family sentiment. This state is worth watching closely.
 The Times rankings also include four states that are leaning Republican, including Arizona, Indiana, Missouri, North Carolina. (One electoral vote in Nebraska, which also allows its allocation to be divided, is also included in this category, after Mr. Obama won it in 2008.)
 In this group, North Carolina is the most competitive and could become a tossup as the campaign develops. Four years ago, Mr. Obama narrowly carried the state and is aggressively targeting it again. Arizona is another state to watch, with the president's re-election team sizing it up over the summer to see if it is worth making a full investment in the fall. 
An earlier version of this post misstated how many electoral votes are solidly on the side of President Obama and Mitt Romney; it is 185 for Mr. Obama (not 217) and 158 for Mr. Romney (not 206).

        
On Tuesday's Election, a Big Night for Fox News

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RANKINGS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAUCUSES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); FORECLOSURE (62%); RELIGION (50%) election ratings; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; New York Times; Arizona; Colorado; Florida; Indiana; Iowa; Maine; Michigan; Minnesota; Missouri; Nebraska; Nevada; New Hampshire; New Mexico; North Carolina; Ohio; Pennsylvania; Virginia; Wisconsin; Elections

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Arizona; Colorado; Florida; Indiana; Iowa; Maine; Michigan; Minnesota; Missouri; Nebraska; Nevada; New Hampshire; New Mexico; North Carolina; Ohio; Pennsylvania; Virginia; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



275 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Electronica

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Notes from a road worrier. 

 BODY:
I'm on my way to Boston, where I'll be doing a bookstore event at First Parish Church in Harvard Square -- already sold out, I think. But I thought I'd break from economics with a couple of notes on my .
First, Amtrak's wifi is pathetic -- very slow. So I'm doing this via my smartphone hotspot. I use this all the time on New Jersey Transit; it's a match made in heaven, or at least cyberspace. And it makes travel in the Northeast Corridor a very productive time.
Second, some people noticed my mention here of an iPad. Yes, I bought an iPad 3, for one simple reason: I'd heard about the image quality, and given how much pleasure I get from watching concerts on Youtube, I figured it might be worth it.
And it is. Apple's software is a huge pain; to organize your downloaded videos you have to convince iTunes that they're TV shows, etc.. But if you download a high-def concert video -- there are various programs that will do it -- the picture clarity is just awesome. I'll probably watch Arcade Fire's 2011 Coachella set tonight, after the bookselling is done, and am really looking forward to it. 
Anyway, notes from a road worrier, and yes, I mean worrier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



276 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Reads and Reactions: Reader Comment Edition

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: FiveThirtyEight readers weigh in -- often critically -- on recent posts previewing the fall campaign. 

 BODY:
Reactions
In the lull between the resolution of the Republican primary and the beginning of the general election, FiveThirtyEight took several approaches (here, here, here and here) to set the stage for the fall campaign.
We revisited the level of job creation President Obama probably needs to win re-election. Earlier in the year, we pegged the number at 150,000 jobs per month, and -- on average -- the employment reports since then have exceeded that threshold.
FiveThirtyEight reader VG cast doubt on the data. "A lot of numbers and charts, Nate. It is so utterly farcical - your analysis - precisely because it is so rigorous. Anyone working in the real world knows this: hardly anyone is hiring for high paying jobs. And companies are still shrinking their labor force," VG wrote.
VG's analysis of the economy was found lacking by David K. in Oxford, England. "Indeed," David K. wrote in response, "why go through the process of collecting data, when anecdote will suffice?"
Another reader, however, thought the entire exercise missed the point. DeepBlue, writing from Boston, said: "That's one way of looking at things. Another is that over the past 30 years the more charismatic guy has won the election."
Charisma could be one explanation for the difference found by frequent FiveThirtyEight guest poster John Sides between Mr. Obama's approval rating and a theoretical approval rating predicted by the economy and other fundamental factors.
Mr. Sides's model found that Mr. Obama's approval rating exceeds what it "should" be based on key indicators. Several readers, however, were unconvinced.
Their argument was made succinctly by Coneymaker from Cincinnati: "It looks like all presidents were more popular than the prediction. I would argue that your prediction is faulty."
Mr. Sides will be responding to this line of argument in a forthcoming post.
There was also a common complaint about the FiveThirtyEight post "Arizona Is (Probably) Not a Swing State," which argued that the state is unlikely to swing the results of the election.
Several readers rejected that definition of a "swing state." Glenn Doty, from Columbia, S.C., wrote: "Nate, your definition of 'swing state' is not the same as the standard definition. The standard definition is: 'a state that may switch from one party to the other in different elections.' By that definition, Arizona is a potential swing state this year...."
Another reader, Bob Bob, suggested a compromise:
I think 'Tipping Point States' (states that could actually make the election go one way or another) is a good term to describe what [Nate is] talking about. 'Swing state' is a good term to describe a state that appears to be "up in the air" (i.e. could go one way or another... assuming it's not a total blowout).
Reads
The Guardian's Harry J. Enten has all the "rules" that the 2012 presidential election is supposed to follow, half of which are mutually exclusive.
The Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism put together a data-rich report on how the media covered the Republican primary campaign.
The Times's Floyd Norris wrote an insightful article looking at public-sector employment data. The takeaway: "For the first time in 40 years, the government sector of the American economy has shrunk during the first three years of a presidential administration." Make sure you check out the graphic as well.
Brad Plumer, at Ezra Klein's WonkBlog, delved into explanations for the shrinking labor force, which critics of the Obama administration have pointed to as evidence that the slowly falling unemployment rate is falling for the wrong reasons.
Mike Konczal, at the Next New Deal blog, also had a smart analysis of the debate over the size of the labor force.

        
Has Obama's Magic Jobs Number Changed?
        
Arizona Is (Probably) Not a Swing State
        
The Overrated Vice Presidential Home-State Effect
        
Do Romney's Favorability Ratings Matter?
        
The General Election Ground Game: A First Look

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); STATISTICS (76%) 2012; general election; jobs; reads and reactions; swing states; Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (52%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



277 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Two Financiers Take Control of Barneys, Ending Its Debt Struggles

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD


HIGHLIGHT: Perry Capital, which is Barneys' biggest bondholder, announced on Monday that it had taken control of the retailer, concluding a long-running effort to reorganize its finances after laboring under nearly $600 million in debt. 

 BODY:
8:56 p.m. | Updated 
Barneys New York, one of New York's bastions of high fashion, ended years of struggles with its hefty debt load by selling itself to the financiers Richard C. Perry and Ronald W. Burkle.
The retailer announced on Monday that Perry Capital, Mr. Perry's hedge fund firm and Barneys' biggest bondholder, has taken a majority stake in the company. Mr. Burkle's Yucaipa Companies will also own a stake.
Months in the making, the deal will allow Barneys to conclude another shaky chapter in its 89-year history. It will also let Barneys escape having to file for bankruptcy, as it did in 1996.
Both Perry Capital and Yucaipa, a private equity firm, are gaining control by swapping their debt holdings for equity stakes, shedding about $540 million of the company's $590 million in long-term debt in the process. Istithmar, the Dubai-based private equity firm that bought the retailer in a 2007 leveraged buyout, will retain a minority stake in the company.
"Financially, we've been moving in the right direction," Mark Lee, the company's chief executive, said in a telephone interview. "What we haven't had is a balance sheet that made perfect sense."
Founded as a discount men's wear shop in 1923 by Barney Pressman, who sold his wife's engagement ring to raise capital, Barneys grew to become a mecca for high-end retailing, with nearly 40 stores across the country today including lower-end Co-ops and outlets. It has passed through a number of owners, from the Pressmans to the Jones Apparel Group to Istithmar, which won after a heated bidding war.
Yet it was that deal in 2007, valued at $942 million, that larded the company with a mountain of debt. Barneys then suffered during the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent recession, which sapped consumer appetite for $455 riding pants and $1,495 high heels. Istithmar poured additional capital into the company and hired advisers to help keep the investment afloat.
Barneys also faced a September due date for a $200 million credit line, giving an extra impetus to its restructuring efforts.
Still, Barneys new owners see a number of factors that could help the company. High-end retailing has bounced back: Barneys reported a 40 percent rise in its earnings last year, compared with 2010.
Barneys and its advisers, including the law firm Kirkland & Ellis and the investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners, had to negotiate with a small number of creditors, unlike many other companies that face huge debt loads. That group essentially amounted to Perry Capital, Yucaipa, and lenders led by Citigroup and Wells Fargo.
"We've been able to put a deal together that converted that debt into equity, and do it in a really healthy way," Mr. Perry of Perry Capital said in an interview. "We decided that, rather than get a coupon, we'd rather get long-term equity of this company."
The company and its new owners are exploring additional ways of reducing its remaining $50 million in debt.
Under Mr. Lee, who joined from Gucci in the fall of 2010,the company has shuffled some brands and renovated its Madison Avenue store. The new ownership will let it move more quickly with overhaul plans, he said; the ground floor is scheduled to be renovated by September, for instance. A new Web site will be introduced in a few weeks.
"Having a C.E.O. and a management team in place that's world class, that makes everything easier," Mr. Perry said.
Mr. Lee has also made several prominent hires and dismissals since taking the helm. Simon Doonan, the longtime creative director,was given a new role as "creative ambassador at large," while Mr. Lee hired Amanda Brooks, Dennis Freedman and Daniella Vitale to fill various roles.
Ms. Brooks, Barneys' fashion director, recently left the company after just over a year on the job. Mr. Lee said that her departure was "a personal decision of Amanda," and there was "nothing more to it than that."
Barneys is also gaining a new owner with more than a passing familiarity with fashion. Mr. Perry, the hedge fund manager, is known for his sharp style and shops at the company's flagship store, near his firm's offices in Midtown Manhattan. His wife, Lisa, runs a fashion line that was picked up by Barneys earlier this year.
Asked if they had struck any parts of the deals at Fred's, the restaurant inside of Barneys' Madison Avenue store, Mr. Perry already sounded like an owner.
"Now that the deal is done, everybody can go to Fred's and have a good lunch - " Mr. Lee said, prompting Mr. Perry to interrupt him: "And it offers dinner also, you should know."

        
Barneys, Debt-Laden, Is Weighing Restructuring
        
Burkle Said to Offer to Take Control of Barneys

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CLOTHING LABELS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); EXECUTIVES (51%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (50%) Barneys New York; Istithmar; Perry Capital; Richard C. Perry; Ronald W. Burkle; Yucaipa; Fashion and Apparel; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Yucaipa Cos; Richard Perry; Hedge Funds; Mergers & Acquisitions; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); YUCAIPA COS LLC (72%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (57%); JONES GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Barneys New York; Yucaipa Cos

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JNY (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



278 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Sowing Failure, Reaping Success: What Failure Can Teach

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK and KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: What is failure, and what can come from it? In this lesson we post examples from sports, science, business, the arts, politics and education, then pose questions and suggest activities for investigating the notion of "failure" in myriad ways. 

 BODY:
When Have You Ever Failed at Something?What Happened as a Result?
We pose these questions for students to answer as part of thinking about the broad theme of "failure": how it is defined, what it means and what it can lead to.
Everyone grapples with failure, even (or maybe especially) tremendously successful people. Both J. K. Rowling and Steve Jobs, for instance, talked about failure during commencement addresses, Ms. Rowling at Harvard in 2008 and Mr. Jobs at Stanford in 2005, where he famously emphasized the importance of failure to success, particularly after he was fired, at age 30, from Apple, the company he co-founded:
 "It turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me," he said. "The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods in my life."
Below, we suggest essential questions about failure, what it means, and what can come from it; list just a few examples of famous "failures" from fields like sports, business, science, the arts and education; and suggest activities students might use to study and learn from failure.
What are we missing? What great examples of failure in any field should we include here? What interesting educational projects have you done around the notion of failure? Let us know.
Key Questions:
What is "failure"? What is "success"? Who defines each?
When have you ever failed, by your own definition?
How do you deal with failure?
Can failure be useful? Can you think of examples, from your own life or someone else's, when it has led to something positive?
How is failure defined and dealt with in your family, your school, the activities you do outside of school, among your friends and in your community? Which of those definitions and responses to failure seem fairest or best to you? Why?
What can be done to avoid failure? Should people try to avoid it?
How can people recover from failure?
How have you been failed by others?
Where do you see failure in society around you?
Sports
Sports can present stark examples of success and failure. There is little gray area - a team wins or loses. 
Many know that the Yankees have more World Series championships (27) than any team in baseball, but what about the least successful teams
Research teams or players in different sports to try to find the worst, by seasonal record, points scored, individual statistics or some other metric, using the Internet, libraries and resources like The New York Times's archives. What made the team or player so awful?
How did the team turn things around? If it never did, how might the team had turned things around?
Sometimes, however, the margin between a triumphant and mediocre athletic career can be razor-thin. Compare records of successful players with records of those who were not. (Baseball, with its many statistics, is particularly suited to this activity.) What is the line between a great hitter, server or quarterback and a middling one?
You might also investigate how a good player can go "bad." Examine the ups and downs in a player's career averages and try to determine when their talent faded. Do coaches in the league often make decisions related to the numbers, or is it more arbitrary? How often are there outliers? An example could be the 37-year-old shortstop Derek Jeter, who is in his 18th major league season with the Yankees and is having a great start in 2012.
Or, consider why fans adore and root for losing teams. What do they get out of it, if anything? Examine the psychology of a die-hard fan for a team that rarely rewards their ardor. Alternately, defend a team you like despite a feeble record.
Business
Failures play both an inspirational and Darwinian role in business. Many companies find the seeds of creativity in failure, while others do all they can to stave it off.
How do companies bounce back after failure, whether because they've blundered with a product like New Coke, or whether they have undermined the world economy with questionable financial instruments
Which businesses are too big to fail, and need a government bailout? Is it fair that some businesses are protected this way? Do you think it's necessary?
Consider when failure is actually desirable for a business. Some highly competitive jobs prize people capable of acknowledging their past failings, while others desperately seek to overcome a perception of failure. When has a failed endeavor led to a better business model, a new invention, and eventual success?
Science
As in business, failure in science can be a catalyst for new discovery. But success and failure in science are often more elusive than a balance sheet. 
Failure is so inherent to scientific inquiry that scientists have to carefully qualify almost every exciting discovery that comes their way, whether the recent evidence of the elusive Higgs Boson or a troubled Russian spacecraft.
More important, mistakes can lead to critical discoveries - just ask Louis Pasteur.
What is the most important accidental discovery? Research accidental or failed projects that became successful, from penicillin to Teflon. When can scientists be sure of their findings? Can they ever be certain?
The Arts
Failure, at least economic failure, can be an artist's greatest ally. Geniuses from Vincent van Gogh to Emily Dickinson toiled in obscurity their entire lives, but the work they created is an inspiration for generations of artists who followed. Did they fail because they weren't appreciated in their lifetimes, or did they prevail because they refused to create work on terms other than their own?
What about artists like Kurt Cobain, Amy Winehouse and David Foster Wallace, all of whom self-destructed before contributing all they could have to their art? Are they failures?
How does a star like Julie Taymor come back from a disaster like the musical "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark?"
How does commerce affect art? Do you consider artists who go commercial "sellouts"? Does that constitute failure, or is negotiating the marketplace part of the process?
What artists have used chance or failure in their work to create something wonderful?
Politics
Failure glares at politicians in each successive stage of their careers, but in the end their success can be mercurial. Spectacular failure loomed for Richard M. Nixon after he trounced Senator George McGovern in the 1972 presidential election. And even though his legacy is inescapably tarnished by Watergate, many people remember his successes while in office
What makes a successful leader? Pick a presidential contest from history and look at what the winner accomplished vs. what the loser did once his or her White House aspirations were dashed. How did their respective legacies impact the United States and the world? To what extents are each successes or failures? Why?
You could also look at a specific piece of failed legislation and examine how that failure has impacted your community, your family, your country or the world.
Or, define success vs. failure in politics by examining the legacy of different political systems, from 

        
When Have You Ever Failed at Something? What Happened as a Result?
        
PUB-DATE: April 27, 1947
        
Sounds Like Team Spirit
        
Feb. 22, 1980 | U.S.A. Beats Soviet Union in 'Miracle on Ice'
        
Who Inspires You?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); BASEBALL (71%); SPORTS BUSINESS (71%); SPORTS (71%); METRIC SYSTEM (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (71%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (63%) failure; Sports; success; Academic Skills; America At War; Art as a Reflection of Society; Civics; Education; Elections in the United States; Experiments and Data Collection; Fine Arts; Learning Strategies; Lesson Plans; Science; Scientists; Statistics; World Leaders

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (71%); J K ROWLING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012



279 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: For Global Leaders, Including Obama, a Game of Survivor

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Many who were leading the world's major economies pictured in a 2009 photo are no longer in office, primarily the political victims of the recession and voter anger directed at incumbents. 

 BODY:
In his first group photo with world leaders, at the G20 summit in London in April 2009, President Obama was all smiles. 
But as he faces re-election in six months, a quick glance back at the photograph might not be reassuring.
Most of the people who were leading the world's major economies when the photo was snapped are no longer in office, primarily the political victims of the global economic recession and voter anger that has been directed at incumbents in countries around the world.
Gone from the photo are Gordon Brown of Britain, Kevin Rudd of Australia, Jos Luis Rodrguez Zapatero of Spain, Taro Aso of Japan and Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. Nicolas Sarkozy, who stood a few feet from Mr. Obama in the photo, was defeated in the French presidential election on Sunday.
Only two people still leading major Western powers - Angela Merkel of Germany and Stephen Harper of Canada - were at the London meeting. (Mr. Harper missed the photo, however.)
The question for Mr. Obama as his campaign battles Mitt Romney is whether the forces that swept so many of his contemporaries out of office are also building in the United States - and if so, what he can do about it.
After Mr. Sarkozy's defeat over the weekend, many political observers in the United States tried to find a lesson in it for Mr. Obama. Some have suggested that voters across Europe and elsewhere are rejecting tough austerity measures.
That appears to have been the message in France, where voters embraced Franois Hollande's criticism of Mr. Sarkozy's policies. And in Greece, where George A. Papandreou, the prime minister, stepped down late last year to clear the way for a debt deal with other European nations, voters again punished leaders who advocated austerity.
If American voters follow suit, that could favor Mr. Obama in his face-off with Mr. Romney, who is calling for tougher cuts to address the nation's debt and deficit. Mr. Obama, like Mr. Hollande, has been arguing for a mix of cuts and stimulus to deal with the global economic crisis.
But the message from voters across the globe may be more about registering their anger with incumbents - whatever their policies - than a rejection of specific policies in the wake of the economic recession.
In Australia, Mr. Rudd lost an internal power struggle amid declining public support for his stimulus policies and climate change legislation similar to a cap-and-trade program favored by some Democrats in the United States. He stepped down as prime minister in June 2010. 
In Italy, Mr. Berlusconi resigned as prime minister late last year after growing concern about his country's fiscal problems during the European debt crisis. (He also faced inquiries into sex scandals that had plagued him for years.)
British voters rejected Mr. Brown as prime minister in 2010, after he presided over the country during the global financial collapse. They turned to the more conservative David Cameron to lead the country into a recovery - an outcome that Mr. Romney would like to repeat in the United States.
Campaign aides for Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney declined to comment on they lessons they have drawn from Mr. Sarkozy's defeat. At the White House on Monday, Jay Carney, the president's spokesman, noted that "each country has its own circumstances" and emphasized Mr. Obama's efforts to balance the interests at stake in the economic recovery.
"A balanced approach towards fiscal consolidation and growth is what he believes is appropriate," Mr. Carney said. "That's the approach he's taken here."
Will that be enough to keep Mr. Obama from the same fate that has befallen so many of his fellow leaders? 
Mr. Romney's campaign is focused on convincing American voters that the president's approach to the economic recession was misguided and insufficient. 
"Americans are disappointed in President Obama's liberal policies that haven't made their lives any better," Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney, said in an e-mail Monday morning. "President Obama just hasn't lived up to his promises."
Mr. Obama's political advisers are determined to defend his record and to describe Mr. Romney's proposals as nothing more than a return to the era of George W. Bush.
"The president has faced a combination of crises that few others have had to deal with, all at the same time, starting on Day 1," Jim Messina, the president's campaign manager, said on a conference call Monday morning. "He has made bold and brave decisions to help get his economy back on its feet."
"We're proud of that record," Mr. Messina said.
The outcome of that fundamental debate will likely determine whether Mr. Obama joins Mr. Sarkozy and the other world leaders in an early, post-recession retirement that none of them hoped to take quite so soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); SCANDALS (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Recession and Depression; United States Politics and Government; United States; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); STEPHEN HARPER (67%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); KEVIN RUDD (57%); TARO ASO (54%); GORDON BROWN (54%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (54%); ANGELA MERKEL (52%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (92%); GREECE (79%); CANADA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



280 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Reflecting on Buffett, Business and Politics

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Throughout the weekend event in Omaha, known as Woodstock for Capitalists, there was a consistent whisper among some investors about Warren E. Buffett's outspokenness. 

 BODY:
OMAHA -- "When Charlie and I took this job, we did not agree to put our citizenship in a blind trust."
That's what Warren Buffett said here over the weekend at Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting when confronted by a shareholder question complaining that Mr. Buffett had become a public advocate for President Obama and the so-called Buffett Rule, which seeks to raise the tax rate on the wealthiest Americans - many of whom were in the audience.
Mr. Buffett's longtime business partner, Charlie Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire, quickly quipped that his partner's position on taxes "has reduced my popularity around my country club."
It also appeared to reduce Mr. Buffett's popularity among some shareholders. His comments came after the investor had submitted a question, saying: "My 84-year-old father won't invest in Berkshire because of your stance on taxes." Mr. Buffett replied with a zinger: "Sounds like your father should buy stock in Fox."
All of this carping raises an important question: Should corporate executives like Mr. Buffett, who run public companies, advocate personal political positions? Or, should they keep their politics to themselves?
Throughout the weekend, known as Woodstock for Capitalists, there was a low hum among some investors about Mr. Buffett's outspokenness. "It's the elephant in the room," Mario Gabelli, the value investor who has been attending these meetings for years, told a roomful of investors over dinner. Ultimately, he concluded, "I'm O.K. with it," he said in an interview.
Another Berkshire shareholder, however, Dave J. Weber, e-mailed me: "Mr. Buffett has dug himself into a hole that is dangerous territory for the figurehead of a public company to be treading in."
Whether you agree with Mr. Buffett's political positions or not, isn't it refreshing to hear a chief executive advocate for political positions that you would rarely hear out of the mouths of most of his peers? (It must be said that much of the audience at the packed arena in Omaha cheered at Mr. Buffett's political comments.)
Of course, executives frequently lobby legislators to write laws that would favor their companies and investors. And many executives participate in fund-raisers for certain politicians, even working as "bundlers" to raise money for a candidate. James E. Rogers, the chief executive of Duke Energy, is on the steering committee of the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte this summer. But rarely do you hear chief executives loudly advocating political positions that might upset their own constituents, especially at a corporate event like an annual meeting.
Perhaps only Mr. Buffett, with his greatest-investor-of-all-time halo, can speak so candidly. Then again, some of his critics say it's easy for him to talk; they say the tax rate is irrelevant to him because all his wealth is tied up in Berkshire and he plans to give away virtually all of it anyway.
But a former chief executive of a major corporation who attended the meeting told me he wished he could have been as outspoken as Mr. Buffett. "I would have been a lightning rod," he said, explaining why he often "muzzled" himself.
Indeed, Mr. Buffett used part of the meeting, in which he answered questions from shareholders and a panel of analysts and journalists (I was among them), to wax on about a variety of machinations in Washington, about which many of his fellow chiefs conceivably would disagree with him.
For example, he said, "I wish Citizens United never happened," referring to the Supreme Court ruling that allowed the creation of "super PACs many of which are being supported by other billionaire executives to advocate a political position.
"The idea that I should toss $10 million into some super PAC that will spend its time misleading people about its opponent," Mr. Buffett continued, "I don't want to see democracy going in that direction."
Mr. Munger, who traditionally has been more conservative than Mr. Buffett, threw his weight behind a value-added tax, which clearly could affect Berkshire's businesses. "I think it's going to come eventually and probably should," Mr. Munger said nonchalantly. "I think it's quite logical to tax consumption."
Mr. Buffett doesn't just appear to be advocating for higher taxes on the wealthy, he also is not campaigning for lower corporate taxes, a hobby horse of most United States executives.
"It's not a lack of capital that's holding them back," he said about companies' biggest problems, "nor is it tax rates." He said the nation's gross domestic product continued to grow in the 1950s and 1960s, when rates were far higher.
In the midst of what is becoming a very political season, Mr. Buffett made it clear that he never considered politics when studying an investment.
"I don't know the politics of Muhtar Kent, Ken Chenault, Ginni Rometty - I don't know her politics or religion," referring to the chiefs of Coca-Cola, American Express and I.B.M., among Berkshire's biggest holdings. "It doesn't make any difference and I just want to know how he or she will run the business," he said. "I don't think it makes sense to make investment decisions based on politics."
Well said.
By the way, for the curious, Mr. Buffett appeared to be in fine form, despite his recent prostate cancer diagnosis. He had as much energy as I've ever seen. He said he felt fine and he joked that he might be killed by a "jealous husband," but he did not plan to die from prostate cancer. Mr. Munger, always playing the straight man, added: "I resent all this sympathy and attention Warren is getting."

        
Buffett Lets the Facts Bury Sokol
        
On Eve of Berkshire Meeting, Sokol's Legacy Lingers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (66%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%) Berkshire Hathaway; Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting; Charlie Munger; Mitt Romney; President Obama; presidential election; Warren Buffett; Buffett, Warren E; Federal Taxes (US); Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; DealBook Column; Elections; Financial Services; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); DUK (NYSE) (51%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (95%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); JAMES E ROGERS (56%) Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (90%) NEBRASKA, USA (90%); BIHAR, INDIA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



281 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Candidate Crush Confidential

BYLINE: ERIC LEWIS


HIGHLIGHT: Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry, Herman Cain, Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum. Can it really be over? 

 BODY:
I have to confess I have spent the last nine months having a series of crushes on absolutely the wrong people - hypocrites, philanderers, zealots. The more inappropriate their behavior, the more I would swoon. Sure, it felt funny to say "you go, girl" when Michele Bachmann announced that she'd heard that the anti-HPV vaccination causes mental retardation. I tried to explain to my friends that Newt's colony on the moon would make our country great again, bring down gas prices, or cure unemployment (surely a few of those nine-year-old janitors could get hired up there someday). As each candidate dropped by the wayside, I would flit capriciously to the next, hoping that this would be "the one," a relationship that could flourish on its own terms and not be turned into roadkill by the Romney money machine. 
My first campaign crush was Michele Bachmann, winner of the Iowa straw poll so very long ago. She said she shared the same hometown with John Wayne, mistaking him for John Wayne Gacy Jr, the pedophile mass murderer. She saluted the Founding Fathers for "working tirelessly" to end slavery. God told her to be a tax lawyer for the I.R.S., one of the oddest deific decrees on record. She declared that "Americans are tired of seeing Congress spend their hard-earned tax dollars as though it were Monopoly money," but presumably her husband got genuine federal greenbacks for his moral counseling business, which appears to be mainly preoccupied with curing gayness. Unmoored from facts, history or logic, Michele Bachmann was my dream girl. She was fun; she was dangerous; she was everything my parents had warned me against. I had hoped she would rescue the Republicans from Mitt, but it was not to be.
Once Michele ended it, I made a quick rebound to Rick Perry. I know you're not supposed to do that, but Perry was an Aggie yell leader, a Texas Governor, a prodigious death warrant signer. Who was it in my past that he reminded me of? Of course, it was 2000 all over again, but without all that "compassionate conservative" sweet talk. Then Perry started letting it rip. He made Bachmann sound like Hannah Arendt. He declared Turkey an Islamic terrorist state. He was going to cut three agencies, but he could only remember 1, maybe 2. He thought the voting age was 21 and that the election was held on a Wednesday. Rick made fun of himself and I hoped the Republicans would be good sports, but they weren't. If only he had just stood there combing his hair, like Elvis.
My next unlikely crush was on Herman Cain. We need not linger. Remember the 9-9-9 plan. You had to love its elegant simplemindedness. The other voters did too and for a few weeks, Herman surged to the front. Cain was proudly ignorant of who might be the leader of (our strategic ally in the Afghan campaign, but never mind) Uz-bekee-bekee-stan-stan. But a crazy plan and a willful indifference to world politics didn't do him in. It was a string of groped women that kept on growing; whether the number of women made it up to to his talismanic nine, we will never know.
The ranks were thinning. Ron Paul scared me; I was looking for adventure, but going back to the gold standard was a little rich for my blood. Jon Huntsman tried to appeal to my intelligence. He never spoke to me, in Chinese or otherwise. If Jon Huntsman were the answer, then why not just go all the way to making your parents happy with Mitt Romney.
Suddenly, the libidinous, hypocritical grandiosity of Newt Gingrich started to look pretty interesting. Left wife number one when she got cancer. Left wife number two when she got MS. Asked for an open marriage. Didn't get it. Willing to spend heavily at Tiffany's for wife number three. Became a Catholic and a champion of family values. Got testy when anyone asked him about whether there might be an issue there. Perfect. Newt was inevitable; he said so himself. I kept hoping that after South Carolina, Newt would trim his sails, keep quiet and behave like a normal person for just a few weeks. But flush with success, Newt had to be Newt. He wanted that colony on the moon, but no one knew why. He looked forward to a series of marathon Lincoln-Douglas-style debates with President Obama. So did I. It was not to be. His campaign ended with a whimper, with Gingrich bitten by a penguin in the zoo and inundated by campaign debts.
Finally, I turned my lonely eyes to the little engine that could, Rick Santorum, the world's happiest medieval man. Sweater vests have never been sexy, true, but fashion is fickle. I used to get a bit misty-eyed about his obstinate, quixotic belief that deeply held principles, like opposing contraception, can defeat a mountain of money, a near-unanimous Republican establishment and eight years of organizational infrastructure. You have to love the dreamers, but it never works out.
Five head-over-heels flings in less than a year. Looking back, do I feel that I exercised poor judgment? I suppose. Should it have been obvious that none of these people was appropriate? Of course. Did my friends all warn me? They did. Now that it is time to get back to my real life, I ask myself, was it all worth it? You betcha.

        
What's a Republican Feminist To Do?
        
Cain's Paine
        
Culture Warriors Don't Win
        
The Virtues of the Super PAC
        
The Renegade Republicans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (72%); MENTAL RETARDATION (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (55%); LAWYERS (51%) Herman Cain; Michele Bachmann; Newt Gingrich; Rick Perry; Rick Santorum; Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Perry, Rick; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); MICHELE BACHMANN (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); HERMAN CAIN (90%); RICK SANTORUM (90%) Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Perry, Rick; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



282 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: Target Practice

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: David Axelrod, Douglas Schoen and other political strategists discuss how the strength of Mitt Romney's super PAC and the weakness of President Obama's will affect the election. 

 BODY:
"Right now, before everyone gets to know him, is the time for Obama to push Romney face down in the dirt," a key Democratic operative working outside the campaign told me last week. "You can't let Romney go before the voters looking clean."
What Obama lacks right now, however, is a bludgeon - a super PAC loaded with cash to hammer home negative advertising. Super PACs, as you may have heard, have emerged as the hit men of 2012.
Why? Because super PACs offer two key advantages that make them ideal as attack dogs: unrestrained fundraising and a little distance from the candidates they support. They can accept unlimited donations from corporations, unions and individuals, and they do not need to obtain a candidate's approval for the messages they are putting out.
The Obama-Romney election is expected to be close. Consequently, each side will try to eviscerate the other. Super PACs, and similar tax-exempt, independent-expenditure organizations - named after section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code - are better equipped to finance harsh advertising they are legally prohibited from coordinating with the candidate and his campaign.
Obama's campaign has raised a ton of money - $191.7 million as of March 31. But his super PAC, Priorities USA, had collected a paltry $8.99 million by the same date. This is chickenfeed compared to Romney's super PAC, Restore Our Future, which had raised $51.9 million as of March 31. After heavy spending to win the nomination, Restore Our Future had $6.5 million in the bank, but it has demonstrated a far greater ability to raise money than Priorities USA, and there are a host of super rich conservatives prepared to invest large sums to defeat Obama.
David Axelrod, the Obama-Biden campaign's chief strategist, is acutely aware of the problem confronting the Democratic ticket. In an e-mailed response to a Times inquiry, he wrote: 
No president has ever faced the kind of onslaught we are about to see. We expect the super Pacs, and their more insidious, non-disclosing cousins - the 501c4 front groups - to spend as much as a billion dollars. They will act as a tag-team with Romney, allowing his team to carry a positive message as the super Pacs rain negative ads down on the president. To date, they have dwarfed Priorities and other Democrat-leaning efforts, so we've had to spend millions of dollars responding to super Pac attacks.
Douglas Schoen, a Democratic consultant who is not part of the Obama campaign and has been very critical of the president, wrote in an email that
it is a huge, and potentially dispositive disadvantage that Obama is not raising super PAC money. I expect Romney to have $400-500 million to spend in what will ultimately prove to be 5-8 crucial swing states.
In addition to the financial advantages, Schoen wrote, Republican super PACs
can and will run ads without disclosure or with any real review of their accuracy. So Romney can and will insulate himself from the most noxious and offensive and probably inaccurate ads as well - as he did in the primaries.
Two conservative independent groups founded by Karl Rove, American Crossroads, a super PAC, and Crossroads GPS (Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies), a 501(c)(4), are expected to act as Romney surrogates. Together they have raised $99.8 million, with expectations of tripling that by election day. These groups will also invest heavily on behalf of Republican candidates in House and Senate races.
Crossroads GPS entered the presidential campaign early, running a TV ad in July 2011 showing a woman tossing and turning at 3 a.m., unable to sleep. She says:
I'm worried I guess, about our jobs, our home, how everything costs more, even mom's health care. How will we ever retire? Lately I worry a lot about my kids. What's their future going to be like? I supported President Obama because he spoke so beautifully. But since then, things have gone from bad to much worse. He said spending hundreds of billions on a stimulus would create more jobs, but now all we've got is a lot more debt and more people out of work. Instead of fixing health care, my mom's Medicare will be cut and our health insurance premiums went up. Our country's got this huge debt and Obama says raise taxes and keep spending more? Doesn't Washington know we can't afford more taxes and debt? If they don't figure it out, it's going to be even tougher for our kids. There's got to be a way to take away President Obama's blank check.
Individual Republican donors have shelled out huge sums to super PACs. Sheldon and Miriam Adelson famously contributed $25 million. Harold Simons, C.E.O. of Contran Corp. in Dallas, has given $13.7 million, and Robert J. Perry, a homebuilder in Houston, has written checks totaling $6.6 million.
Between now and the Republican convention at the end of August is Obama's window of opportunity to paint a negative picture of Romney, but lacking super PAC funds his hands are tied. At the same time, Republican super PACs have begun to vilify Obama and portray Romney in a favorable light.
Last week, Restore our Future announced plans to spend $4.3 million running a commercial called "Saved" in nine swing states.
The ad tells the story of Romney shutting down Bain Capital and sending 50 employees to New York to recover the missing 14-year-old daughter of Robert Gay, one of Romney's partners. The ad shows Gay, his voice cracking, as he tells viewers, "Mitt's done a lot of things people say are nearly impossible, but for me, the most important thing he's ever done is to help save my daughter."
As Restore Our Future goes positive, Crossroads GPS has invested $1.7 million in a negative anti-Obama ad, "Too Much." The commercial - shown in April in six swing states (Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Nevada, Ohio, and Virginia) accuses Obama of falsely claiming that he has increased domestic oil production and blames him for high gas prices.
Because Obama's advertising budget comes primarily from his campaign treasury, he will have to air explicitly negative anti-Romney ads himself, unable to hide behind independent expenditure committees. Negative ads run by the Democratic National Committee will provide Obama only modest cover.
In one eight day period from April 25 to May 2, the Obama campaign released six anti-Romney web ads and one negative television ad, going after Romney on issues ranging from women's contraception to his Swiss bank account.
Web ads, however, are only of marginal value. They reach relatively few voters and unless they somehow capture the public imagination and go viral, most of the people who see them are already Obama loyalists.
Obama's sole television ad during this period attacked Romney for shipping jobs overseas. The ad clearly identifies the Obama-Biden campaign as the sponsor and begins with Obama himself saying "I'm Barack Obama and I approved this message."
In other words, the benefits of the Obama commercial are counteracted by the fact that voters who dislike negative ads will know Obama is sponsoring this one.
Obama, in the view of strategists on both sides, needs to take the offensive against Romney, not only to swiftly sully his opponent's name, but to divert attention from his own vulnerabilities.
These vulnerabilities include not only a dangerously high unemployment rate of 8.1 percent, but, equally important, median annual household income that has effectively stagnated for two years at $2,500 below where it was when Obama was sworn into office.
At a time when jobs and economic growth override all other election issues, Obama's opposition to the construction of the 1,179-mile Keystone XL pipeline from Hardisty, Alberta to Steele City, Neb., has provided Republicans with another inviting target: a Democratic president more beholden to environmentalists than to the thousands of pipeline workers who would be hired to build the project.
If Republicans and the Romney campaign have their way, the Keystone XL pipeline will become a metaphor for Democratic environmental elitism, a tactic which may well prove effective in building support among white working class voters, now a core Republican constituency. (Romney, of course, has his own problems with elitism.)
Obama's vulnerability on unemployment and the economy is evident in the findings of a Washington Post poll from April 8.
While voters said Obama would do better than Romney in "protecting the middle class" by 49-39 and in "addressing women's issues" 53-34, Romney won on "handling the economy" 47-43, "handling energy policy" 47-42 and "handling the federal budget deficit" 51-38. Perhaps most significantly, on a question that traditionally favors Democrats - "creating jobs" - Obama holds only a slim 46-43 advantage.
Much of the struggle during the next six months will be over setting the campaign agenda.
As the chart below shows, an election campaign dominated by the deficit, illegal immigration and "dealing with moral breakdown" decisively favors Republicans.
In contrast, an election conducted primarily on issues like education, the environment, helping the poor, making the tax system fairer and preserving Medicare tilts the debate in favor of Democrats.
The test of Obama's strength has already begun in earnest. In Western Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia, American Crossroads is running a $175,000 radio campaign quoting Cecil Roberts, the president of the United Mine Workers, charging that new federal regulations on the coal industry are "a job killer."
The careful targeting of this ad to coal-mining areas, and the use of a cheaper medium, radio, reflects the strategy used by both Romney and Obama supporters of identifying "niche" issues of importance to relatively small, but important segments of the electorate in the nine to fourteen states that will hold the balance of power in 2012.
All of these tactics assume the election will be close. Neither candidate will have the wind at his back, as Obama did in 2008. Any major shift in the economy, for better or worse - including the possible domestic repercussions of a renewed European financial crisis - could trump these tactical maneuvers.
Absent such a development, the candidate who proves best equipped to bludgeon his opponent and protect his own image - in a campaign expected to be the most expensive in history - will likely emerge the victor on Nov. 6.
A number of Democratic strategists contend, on background, that Obama created his own problem in raising super PAC money by aggressively keeping both lobbyists and major donors at arm's length during his tenure in the White House.
Schoen, one of the few Democrats willing to speak on the record, put it this way:
Obama's problems are two-fold. There has been no donor maintenance, and there has been no effort to cultivate bundlers like Clinton and Bush did. I'm not sure it is reformist policies, but rather a singular disregard for the exigencies of modern day politics.

        
Let the Nanotargeting Begin
        
Suppress the Vote!
        
The Outsourced Party
        
Cash and Carry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); DOGS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); CONSERVATISM (68%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%); TAX LAW (67%) political advertising; super Pacs; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Political Action Committees; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012



283 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe Press Iran Before Next Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
The United States on Monday injected a note of caution into the mood of optimism surrounding recently revived talks on Iran's contentious uranium enrichment program, calling on the Iranians to take ''urgent, practical steps'' to prove their sincerity in complying with obligations on the nonproliferation of nuclear weapons. The European Union was more direct, asking Iran to suspend the enrichment, a step that Iran has said it will never take.
The American and European statements, made at an international nonproliferation conference in Vienna, may have reflected diplomatic posturing two weeks before the next planned round of negotiations with Iran on the uranium enrichment dispute, to be convened in Baghdad. But the statements also seemed to suggest that the atmosphere of good will in seeking to resolve the dispute diplomatically may have begun to fade. 
Positive statements on all sides after the first round of resumed negotiations last month in Istanbul, the first such talks in more than a year, had helped to ease rising tensions and had diminished speculative talk of a possible military attack on Iran's uranium enrichment facilities by Israel, which regards Iran as its most dangerous adversary.
Iran publicly hinted before the talks resumed that it would be open to halting enrichment of uranium to 20 percent purity, which is a short technical step away from uranium pure enough to use in weapons, and would continue to enrich uranium at much lower purity levels needed for nuclear power generation.
But Iran has balked at requests by the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear monitor, for unfettered access to military sites by its inspectors, who have raised questions about what they called suspect activities in an agency report on Iran last November. Multiple requests by the inspectors to visit Parchin, a military complex near Tehran that may have been the site for testing explosives that can be used in nuclear weapons triggers, have been rejected by the Iranian authorities.
Iran, a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, has repeatedly asserted that its uranium enrichment is for legal, peaceful purposes. It has also denied accusations that it is covertly working to gain the capability to make nuclear weapons, and it rejected the energy agency's report as a fabrication. Iran has also defied Security Council resolutions demanding that it suspend the enrichment, and has denounced increasingly onerous American and European economic sanctions aimed at pressing it to comply.
In a statement at the nonproliferation conference in Vienna, the United States representative, Robert A. Wood, said it had welcomed the resumption of the talks on April 14 in Istanbul between Iran and the so-called P5-plus-1 powers -- the five permanent members of the Security Council, plus Germany.
''We seek a sustained process that produces concrete results,'' Mr. Wood said, ''and call on Iran to take urgent, practical steps to build confidence and lead to compliance with all its international obligations. We will be guided in these efforts by the step-by-step approach and the principle of reciprocity.''
Mr. Wood criticized Iran on the inspection issue, saying the United States was ''concerned that Iran has not agreed to the I.A.E.A. access to all relevant sites, documents and persons necessary to resolve questions about its nuclear program, including concerns about its possible military dimensions reported by the I.A.E.A. in November 2011.''
The European Union's representative to the talks, Gyorgyi Martin Zanathy, appeared to take a stricter line on enrichment. ''Iran must suspend its enrichment activities and heavy-water-related projects, including research and development,'' he was quoted by Reuters as saying.
Ali Asghar Soltanieh, Iran's representative to the energy agency, did not respond directly to the American and European statements. But at the same conference, he accused the United States, France and Britain of responsibility for the spread of nuclear weapons, saying they had repeatedly breached their commitments to the nonproliferation treaty, Iran's Press TV news service reported.
Mr. Soltanieh also criticized American and European cooperation with Israel, the Press TV report said, stressing that such cooperation violated treaty regulations.
Israel, which is not a signatory to the treaty, is believed to have between 75 and 200 nuclear weapons, according to the Arms Control Association, a nonpartisan group in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (56%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); TURKEY (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN (78%); GERMANY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); IRAQ (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



284 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Supporters of President Gain in Armenian Election

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- A political party in Armenia loyal to President Serzh Sargsyan won the most votes in a parliamentary election over the weekend, a result that tracked closely with a pattern in other post-Soviet elections: the parties in power tend to stay in power. 
The election was the first since rioting broke out in Armenia four years ago to protest the election of Mr. Sargsyan, Armenia's third president since independence. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe criticized that election as flawed.
The organization, a 56-nation group that monitors elections, noted some improvements in the Armenian voting on Sunday, an outcome that could help strengthen the legitimacy of Mr. Sargsyan's leadership. His party, the Republican Party of Armenia, had a strong showing. It won 44 percent of the vote, while another party in the ruling coalition, the Prosperous Armenia Party, won 30 percent.
A group of opposition parties, the Armenian National Congress, came in third with 7 percent, according to results released Monday by the electoral authorities.
The show of support for the president could help Armenia move forward on long-stalled peace talks with neighboring Azerbaijan and on negotiations with Turkey to open the border, analysts said.
The outcome was more muddled for domestic politics in Armenia, one of the smaller states of the former Soviet Union, which has historically maintained good ties with both Russia and the United States and is strategic for its proximity to Iran.
Until the election and subsequent protests four years ago, Armenia had been a relatively bright example of political tolerance in the region. Officials had rarely resorted to subversive electoral tricks.
In a statement on Monday, Francois-Xavier de Donnea, the head of the observer mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, praised the Armenian government for an ''open and peaceful'' campaign. But the statement also said that the campaign was marred by apparent vote buying and the enlistment of state employees to campaign for the governing party.
In five cases, voters were registered at the addresses of buildings destroyed in a 1988 earthquake, the apparent use of a national tragedy for fraudulent electoral gain. A company owned by one candidate donated 500 tractors, a valuable handout in a poor country. Only at the last moment, the authorities removed the names of 1,841 voters from electoral lists because these people were dead.
Armenia's politics are closely watched by the large Armenian diaspora in the United States, mostly in Southern California, and in France. The other center is in Russia. Armenia has a population of 2.9 million, while the number of Armenians outside the country is about five million.
The political influence of the Armenian diaspora shifted in the global recession; since about 2006, remittances from Armenians in Russia have surpassed those from the United States.
Most ethnic Armenians abroad lack dual citizenship and do not vote in Armenian elections, but their remittances play a significant role in financing the Armenian government, said Richard Giragosian, the director of the Regional Studies Center, a policy research group in the Armenian capital, Yerevan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); RIOTS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (52%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (57%); REPUBLICAN PARTY OF ARMENIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ARMENIA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



285 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Bending Company Policy On Business Travel

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail:jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PSST. Want to buy an airplane seat with a tiny bit more legroom so your knees don't knock your chin on that four-hour flight? How about a hotel that's part of a chain where you have a ton of loyalty points and they treat you like family, rather than one across town that your company wants you to use?
If you said yes, you may be a candidate for going rogue. That's the term some managers use to describe business travelers who book out of policy. In other words, these travelers do not follow the rules that have been carefully negotiated with suppliers on which airlines, hotels and other travel services to use. 
Managers work hard to try to keep traveling employees within the guidelines, but many employees find ways to get around the rules, usually in an effort to make life more convenient for themselves on the road. Incidentally, this column has long annoyed travel managers by supporting better convenience and comfort for business travelers, even if they do have to go rogue.
''Most business travelers do try to stick to policy,'' said Carroll Rheem, senior research director at PhoCusWright, a travel market research firm. Ms. Rheem is also co-author of a recent report by the firm, ''U.S. Business Traveler: Managed, Unmanaged and Rogue.''
''Rogue behavior really happens mostly as a one-off, where there is a special circumstance,'' Ms. Rheem explained. ''Very few travelers systematically ignore their travel policies.''
Of course, it all depends on the meaning of systematically. For over a decade, travel managers have painstakingly negotiated corporate rates with select airlines, hotels and other suppliers, at discounted prices in exchange for guaranteeing a specified amount of annual business. Such deals are the foundation of travel policies, which also typically lay out policies for expenses on meals, business entertainment and incidentals.
There are various reasons many travelers have opted to make choices outside of policy. Airlines, for example, have been busily tacking on ever more a la carte options during the reservation or check-in process.
''With the options to choose for premium seats and all those other things, the challenge is definitely more on the air travel side'' for travel managers, Ms. Rheem said.
Business travel accounted for more than $251 billion in spending last year in the United States. About 31 million individuals made at least one business trip, according to PhoCusWright. Big companies with over 5,000 employees account for the vast majority of business trips and the bulk of annual spending, and two-thirds have corporate travel policies in place, PhoCusWright said.
Travelers who book outside policy often do so because it makes more sense for a specific trip. The preferred airline may require connections that take all day to get to a destination, while another airline that's not within policy may offer a shorter route at a competitive fare. A hotel that's within policy may be a $50 taxicab ride from the hotel across town that's closer to the traveler's convention or meeting.
Travel managers often try to impose sanctions, but many business travelers tend to be valued, high-performing employees who aren't easily intimidated by a stern memo.
''One thing we found is, the higher up you go in the organization the more likely they are to go rogue,'' Ms. Rheem said.
Most travel policies often have some flexibility to allow employees ''some discretion over which travel brands they use,'' the PhoCusWright report says.
In general, travel managers are working to accommodate travelers' need for more control on the road, as more work is packed into each trip. And the managers do realize that the airlines, struggling to maintain profitability, are cutting routes and services, while offering better service for extra fees -- seats with more legroom, priority boarding and the like.
So travelers and travel managers are not natural enemies. Rather, the struggle is to get the most out of business travel spending in a shaky economy, while airfares and hotel rates are rising, and while conditions on the road are generally tougher than ever. Better information is crucial.
''At PhoCusWright, we're absolutely neutral; we have clients across the entire spectrum of the travel industry,'' Ms. Rheem said. ''I see my role as helping everyone in the industry better understand the conditions.''
Meanwhile, the airlines are increasing the pressure on travelers to pay the base fare and then choose from various for-fee extra services. And not everybody thinks that's a bad thing. Airlines depend mightily on ancillary fees to stay in business.
Travelers ''are better served when they are free to pick and purchase services based on individual preference,'' according to a recent report by the consulting firm IdeaWorks and the travel reservations company Amadeus. Airlines, the report says, ''are trying to become savvy retailers.''
But then, said Jay Sorensen, the president of IdeaWorks, choices and prices ''must be delivered in an open and honest manner, and that's a lesson still sadly lost on some airlines.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TRAVEL INSURANCE (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (75%); WRITERS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



286 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: After Spending Freely, a Liberal Community Fights Over Frugality

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
MONTCLAIR, N.J. -- Here, ''where the suburb meets the city,'' as banners downtown proclaim, there is a Williams-Sonoma but also New Jersey's first licensed medical marijuana dispensary. President Obama captured 83 percent of the vote. Residents support two libraries and two independent bookstores, and driving the six-mile stretch of town, you are never more than 10 minutes from your pick of two Whole Foods.
So a storm was set off when 100 self-described ''PTA moms'' took out a full-page advertisement in The Montclair Times supporting a candidate for mayor in the elections on Tuesday who has questioned how much the town is required to spend on libraries and called for a re-examination of school busing that dates to the 1970s, citing its cost.
At coffees and cocktail gatherings, she and her slate of candidates for the Township Council have warned nodding residents that Montclair is at a breaking point -- that it must cut waste and shrink government. 
Asked at a debate about scholarships for poor children to attend a prekindergarten the town helped set up 14 years ago, the candidate, Karen Turner, praised it as the Rolls-Royce of programs, but wondered if the money might be better spent buying ''20 families a Chevy.''
In this push for frugality is the national debate writ small: the town spent lavishly for years, going into debt to pay for things like shade trees and a $45 million LEED-certified school, and now residents are facing the bill.
Montclair is not the only place finding itself with a tax revolt as a result. But it ranks among the most unlikely.
''The most liberal town in America has a Tea Party faction,'' marveled Cary Chevat, a local political activist.
The campaign has opened up a debate about what kind of town the residents want this to be. Montclair likes to think of itself as an idyll of liberal values, where families black and white, gay and straight, very rich and very poor mingle in the public schools.
Ms. Turner's critics argue that eliminating things like scholarships to the prekindergarten, or starving libraries where residents without computers can use them, will ruin the diversity that, in the words of one of her opponents, ''makes Montclair Montclair.''
''If we end up in a situation where the things that we all value in this town are held out as being unaffordable, even if we say, 'Of course we value these things; we just don't have enough money for them,' the property values will plummet because people like me will stop moving to this town,'' said Charles Rosen, who has lived here for eight years. ''I'll move to Short Hills with the other rich white guys.''
On local blogs, Ms. Turner's supporters argue that this ''Montclair exceptionalism'' is simply too expensive. ''It's all this 'what makes Montclair special' language that will bankrupt us as a town,'' one wrote.
Typically, the town's elections are decided by fewer than 7,000 of its 24,000 registered voters. But this one has galvanized people who have never before voted for local offices -- including one of the candidates running with Ms. Turner, LeeAnn Carlson, who, when asked why, explained that she had not realized the town had such problems until recently. In the kind of statement that soothes in a town like this, she added that she had voted in 2008 as ''an ardent supporter'' of Mr. Obama.
Ms. Turner's two opponents -- Robert Jackson, a developer, and Harvey Susswein, a retired management consultant -- are identified as more liberal and are expected to split that vote, giving Ms. Turner a good chance to win.
Strikingly, all three mayoral candidates agree on the broad outlines of the problems -- just not the solution.
In the last decade, Montclair's debt has more than doubled, to $250 million, as it used short-term, low-interest loans to pay many operating expenses as well as to build or refurbish schools and athletic fields.
''Nobody paid attention because it didn't mean an immediate increase in anyone's taxes,'' said John Reichman, the chairman of the Capital Finance Committee, an advisory group that was set up by -- and that often feuds with -- the Council.
Those debts came due. The state, in its own hole, reduced aid to municipalities. Taxes here doubled over a decade. When the economy and housing prices crashed, many residents filed appeals to lower their property tax bills, which exceeded $16,000 on average. That forced the town to raise taxes even more on people not quick or savvy enough to appeal.
Ms. Turner said that one night about two years ago, her husband turned to her and said, ''If taxes go up any more, we can't stay.''
She started Concerned Citizens of Montclair, which filed more than 100 public records requests on the budget and began pressuring the Council to cut costs and freeze taxes and debt.
Ms. Turner brushes away the Tea Party comparisons. ''I had to look up 'Tea Partier' on Wikipedia,'' she said. ''I'm not someone aligned with any political party. I just love this town, and I'm in this race to put it on a better footing.''
She has distanced herself from the citizens group's emphasis on spending cuts. Instead, she says, she supports libraries but wants to consider privatizing them. She supports the magnet system that has integrated Montclair's schools, but wonders if students could use New Jersey Transit rather than school buses.
''There's a lot of rumors out there; I'm not a Republican,'' she assured voters at one forum.
Still, her ideas have echoed those of conservatives nationally. And the campaign manager for her slate was the field director for Chris Christie's conservative opponent in the 2009 Republican primary for governor. He later worked for Americans for Prosperity, the group backed by Koch Industries that has supported the Tea Party movement.
The campaign has exposed class and race divisions that residents like to believe do not exist here. Ms. Turner, who is white, sends her children to private school, and many of the signs backing her slate are on lawns ''uptown,'' where residents pay a premium for spacious lots and views of the New York skyline. Mr. Jackson is African-American and lives in the historically black and less well-off Fourth Ward.
When the local N.A.A.C.P. held a debate at an American Legion post in that neighborhood, Ms. Turner was 10 minutes late, explaining to organizers that she had gotten lost.
At another debate, a voter asked why she appealed her own taxes when she knew the town had a revenue crisis.
Then, after Kathryn Weller-Demming, a member of the Council running for re-election, emphasized the need for affordable housing, calling it a social justice issue, Peter Zorich, running with Ms. Turner, objected.
''The social justice argument doesn't fly,'' he said, arguing that he wanted to ''make Montclair affordable for current residents, not people who want to move here.'' (Mr. Zorich's mother, the actress Olympia Dukakis, who ran a theater company here, was a delegate for her cousin Michael at the Democratic National Convention in 1988. Mr. Zorich was a producer at Fox News for 10 years, then worked for Lou Dobbs.)
The campaign has been occasionally nasty. Mr. Jackson put out a flier saying, ''You Can't Trust Karen Turner to Protect Montclair.'' Her slate accused him of ''bullying'' the PTA moms and being part of ''the Democratic machine.''
Ultimately, it is a fight for relatively little control over the problem. Between the part of the budget that goes to the county and the part that goes to the schools, the Council governs only 20 percent of the overall spending. Many of those costs -- pensions, salaries and health care -- are locked in collective bargaining agreements.
The current Council has adopted tougher rules on issuing debt, declining, for instance, to build a senior center.
There is not much it can do about the payments that have come due. ''It's like dieting,'' said Mr. Reichman, the Capital Finance Committee chairman. ''It's a lot easier to put it on than take it off.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The candidates for mayor of Montclair, N.J., in the election on Tuesday: left to right, Karen Turner, Harvey Susswein and Robert Jackson. Ms. Turner is questioning the town's spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT RAINEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A sign in the Fourth Ward backing Mr. Jackson and one on Upper Mountain Avenue backing Ms. Turner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (87%); FAMILY (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (77%); STARVATION (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); RICK PERRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



287 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: For Some, the Very Big Is Still a Lure

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
Car dealerships have many customers like David King, who traded in his 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe in late April because filling its 26-gallon tank with $4 gasoline had become so expensive. He now drives a Chevrolet Volt 25 miles each way to work, where he can charge the plug-in hybrid so it rarely uses any gas.
But the old gas guzzlers don't just disappear when their owners give them up. Many are quickly bought by someone else, sometimes before the dealer even has a chance to clean them up and put a for-sale sign in the window.
Mike Mayhan, a sales manager at the Victory Automotive Group, the Alabama dealership that took Mr. King's Tahoe, predicted that the black sport utility vehicle would not last long. ''I have people waiting to get one, so they turn around pretty fast,'' he said. 
That is because dealerships also are getting more customers like Jason Frank, who said he was thrilled with the 2003 Ford Explorer he just bought, even though ''the gas mileage is kind of depressing.'' Mr. Frank and his fiancee each drive more fuel-efficient cars for work, but neither of those vehicles can fit their two large dogs, carry their mountain bikes and pull a boat for weekend trips.
''It's basically our extra vehicle just to use for our fun stuff,'' said Mr. Frank, 28, an information technology manager at a bank in Chesterfield, Va. ''We just got it because it fits our needs and it's very versatile.''
In 2008, when gas prices first reached $4 a gallon, Americans could not trade in their hulking trucks and S.U.V.'s fast enough, and the castoffs piled up at dealerships as their value seemingly plunged by the hour. A year later, hundreds of thousands of additional gas guzzlers were sent to scrap yards through the government's cash-for-clunkers program.
But today, in spite of high gas prices and low fuel economy ratings, big S.U.V.'s are no longer the pariahs of the used-car lot. Dealers and analysts say demand for the vehicles is steady and inventories are low, causing their values to stabilize or even increase.
Retail prices for five-year-old full-size S.U.V.'s are 23 percent higher than a year ago, according to Edmunds.com, an automotive information Web site. That is more than double the average price increase of 11 percent for all five-year-old vehicles. Prices for three-year-old S.U.V.'s are up 6 percent, triple the 2 percent average increase for all vehicles that age.
In recent months, large S.U.V.'s and crossover vehicles have also accounted for a larger percentage of the used-vehicle market, according to Kelley Blue Book, another research firm. They made up 4.5 percent of sales this year and 4.2 percent of sales in 2011, up from 3.8 percent in 2008.
Alec Gutierrez, Kelley's senior market analyst of automotive insights, said consumers were reacting to gas prices more rationally than in 2008, when some hurriedly bought vehicles that turned out to be too small for their lifestyles. Although S.U.V.'s no longer sell just for their image, people still want them if they have three or more children, need greater cargo capacity or want to tow a trailer, and more of those buyers are coming back into the market after putting off a purchase during the recession.
''A lot of people with larger families or whatever have just swallowed that gas prices are what they are and there's not much you can do about them,'' said George Fussell Jr., a director at AOW Select, which operates two large used-car dealerships near Fort Lauderdale, Fla. ''They're not buying them for looks. They're buying them because they need them.''
Even though automakers have made big vehicles more fuel-efficient in recent years, the lower upfront cost of a used S.U.V. appeals to some buyers who need something large. For example, the 2013 Ford Explorer with a 4-cylinder EcoBoost engine gets 28 miles per gallon in highway driving, compared with 18 miles per gallon for a 2003 Explorer. But the new Explorer has a sticker price of more than $30,000, while the Kelly Blue Book retail value for the 10-year-old model is about $8,100.
''You're going to pay a little bit of a penalty in fuel economy, but ultimately the savings are going to make up for that fuel-economy hit,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''Still, I don't think you're going out to buy a used Tahoe or Expedition because you want to drive it every day to work 30 or 40 miles away.''
Skip Geniapp, a bookstore manager and audio engineer in Ooltewah, Tenn., said he paid little attention to fuel economy ratings while browsing used-car lots last month. He wanted an S.U.V. with three rows of seats because he and his wife have two adopted children and two foster children.
Mr. Geniapp ended up paying about $6,000 in cash for a 1999 Ford Expedition.
''I'm not in the school of thought that says I should go get a newer, smaller, fuel-efficient car, where I'm saving pennies per gallon but I'm carrying a $450-a-month car payment,'' he said. ''The price of gas doesn't affect me that much if I don't have a car payment.''
The drop in new-vehicle sales during the recession means there are fewer two- and three-year-old vehicles on the market, pushing up used-car values across all segments. The availability of S.U.V.'s from the late 1990s and early 2000s was further reduced by the cash-for-clunkers program, which has helped prop up their values.
That is good news for consumers who held onto their gas guzzlers during the recession and now want to trade up. Dealers also benefit because, even though they might have to offer more money to get a trade-in, they can feel confident that the S.U.V.'s they take will not just languish in the back corner of the lot.
''If it's been well taken care of and it's a good, clean car, there's certainly a market for it,'' said Brad Schiller, the general manager of Huntington Ford in Rochester Hills, Mich.
Mr. King, the Alabama man who traded in his Tahoe for a Volt, said he was pleasantly surprised by how much he received for the trade-in. Although buying the Volt was more expensive than paying for gas, he said he preferred to put his money toward a new, more efficient car.
''I was spending between $400 and $500 on gas every month for my Tahoe, and I thought, 'There's got to be a better way,' '' said Mr. King, co-owner of an accounting firm.
But even though an S.U.V. no longer fit his needs, he decided to buy a two-year-old Jeep Wrangler for his teenage son at the same time. Gas mileage was not as big an issue in that case because his son will not drive the car as far, Mr. King said.
Besides, he added, ''he's going to be responsible for the gas, so he'll be getting some important life lessons.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David King, right, gave up his 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe for a Volt. That left plenty of room in the driveway for his son Bently's two-year-old Jeep Wrangler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Skip Geniapp handing over papers at the dealership after paying $6,000 cash for a 1999 Ford Expedition. Not having a car payment offsets gas prices, he says.
 Laurie Geniapp installing a car seat in the Expedition. With four children, the Geniapps said they needed a large vehicle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (79%); USED CAR DEALERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (79%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (79%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



288 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Raised Debt In March

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Americans used their credit cards more often in March and borrowed more to attend school, resulting in the biggest one-month increase in the nation's consumer debt in a decade. 
Consumer debt rose by $21.4 billion in March from February, the Federal Reserve said Monday. It was the seventh straight monthly increase and the largest since November 2001.
A measure of auto and student loans increased by $16.2 billion. A separate gauge of mostly credit card debt rose $5.2 billion after declining in January and February.
Total borrowing rose to a seasonally adjusted $2.54 trillion. That is slightly below the record high of $2.58 trillion for July 2008, eight months after the recession began.
After hitting that peak, consumers sharply reduced borrowing for two straight years. They slowly began taking on more debt in fall 2010, and in recent months have stepped up the rate of borrowing.
More borrowing is generally viewed as a healthy sign for the economy. It suggests consumers are gaining confidence and becoming more comfortable taking on debt.
Analysts said a major factor in the recent increase in borrowing is stronger hiring since fall.
But another reason is that more people are returning to school. Student loan debt jumped in March.
Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at IHS Global Insight, said that could reflect an effort to borrow before a scheduled rate increase in July.
Cooper Howes, an economist at Barclays Capital, said it could also mean that some people who cannot find work are returning to school.
''We expect that student loan growth will continue to push the level of consumer credit higher,'' Mr. Howes said.
The economy grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first quarter.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Borrowing: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



289 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: iTunes in Luxembourg

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''How Apple Sidesteps Millions in Taxes'' (''The iEconomy Series,'' front page, April 29) suggests that Luxembourg-based iTunes S.a.r.l. is part of a grand scheme run by Apple to deprive the United States and European governments of billions of income tax dollars or euros. You assert that Luxembourg ''has promised to tax the payments collected by Apple and numerous other tech corporations at low rates if they route transactions through Luxembourg.'' 
In the European Union, every iTunes customer, or customer of any other Luxembourg-based business to consumer e-service provider, pays value-added tax (VAT) -- a consumption tax similar to the United States sales tax -- at the same, lowest possible rate. This is not the result of these e-service providers' intent to cheat the taxman. Rather, it is the consequence of a combination of these factors:
European indirect tax law applicable to cross-border business-to-consumer transactions in e-services.
A well-functioning E.U. internal market, which allows for cross-border trade of all e-services from a single location to all other 26 national markets.
The lowest tax rate in the applicable 15 to 25 percent range for standard VAT rates in the 27 European Union member states. So, iTunes S.a.r.l. collects 15 eurocents for every euro spent on iTunes services in VAT from each and every customer, wherever he or she is in the European Union.
Luxembourg and iTunes S.a.r.l. simply apply prevailing E.U. tax law in a well-functioning Internet-based E.U. single market.
GEORGES SCHMIT Executive Director, Luxembourg Trade and Investment Office San Francisco, May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); VALUE ADDED TAX (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); SALES TAX (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EURO (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LUXEMBOURG (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



290 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Soldier Is Defeated by War Abroad, Then Welcomed Back by Racism

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
HOME
By Toni Morrison
145 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.
This haunting, slender novel is a kind of tiny Rosetta Stone to Toni Morrison's entire oeuvre.
''Home'' encapsulates all the themes that have fueled her fiction, from the early novels ''Sula'' and ''The Bluest Eye,'' through her dazzling masterwork, ''Beloved,'' and more recent, less persuasive books like ''Love'' and ''Paradise'': the hold that time past exerts over time present, the hazards of love (and its link to leaving and loss), the possibility of redemption and transcendence.
Once again we are introduced to characters who must choose between the suffocating but sustaining ethos of small-town life and the temptations and pitfalls of the wider world. Once again we are made to see the costs and consolations of caring too much -- for a family member, a lover or a friend. 
''Home'' is the story of Frank Money, who joins the Army as a ticket out of stifling Lotus, Ga. -- where ''there was no future, just long stretches of killing time'' -- and his return there after his service in the Korean War, on a mission to rescue his younger sister, Cee. It is the story of a man who has witnessed the atrocities of war and the deaths of his two best friends, a man who has terrible flashbacks to the war and savage impulses of his own that he finds difficult to master.
Whereas ''Beloved'' mythologized its characters' stories, lending their experiences the resonance of a symphony or an opera, ''Home'' is a lower-key chamber piece, pitched somewhere between straight-up naturalism and the world of fable. In these pages Ms. Morrison eschews the fierce Faulknerian prose and Garcia Marquez-like flights of surrealism that animated some of her earlier novels, adopting a new, pared-down style that enables her to map the day-to-day lives of her characters with lyrical precision.
She describes Cee watching four barnyard swallows gather on the lawn outside her window, ''politely equidistant from one another,'' peck-searching through blades of drying grass, then all four, suddenly ''as if summoned,'' flying up to a pecan tree. And she captures Cee's small-town-girl amazement when she visits a big city -- Atlanta -- for the first time, ''ogling water coming from the turn of a spigot,'' streetlights ''shining longer than the sun and as lovely as fireflies,'' women ''in high heels and gorgeous hats trotting to church two, sometimes three times a day.''
Like earlier Morrison characters, the people in this story live with the daily reality of prejudice -- not with the impossible ordeals of slavery, as in ''Beloved,'' but with the bigotry, injustice and violence that endured in the 1950s. Many restaurants and restrooms in parts of the country are still segregated, and during his travels home Frank is subjected to a random police search outside a shoe store.
When Frank was a child, his family was run out of Bandera County, Texas -- they had to abandon their land, their crops, their livestock -- and were forced to move in with relatives in Georgia. His father took a job as a fieldworker, and his mother picked cotton in the day and swept lumber shacks at night. Memories of their expulsion from Texas will haunt Frank the rest of his life.
''You could be inside, living in your own house for years,'' Frank remembers, ''and still, men with or without badges but always with guns could force you, your family, your neighbors to pack up and move -- with or without shoes.'' Residents were told 24 hours or else -- '' 'else' meaning 'die.' '' One elderly man named Crawford sat on his porch and refused to move:
''He was beaten to death with pipes and rifle butts and tied to the oldest magnolia tree in the county -- the one that grew in his own yard.'' Some of his fleeing neighbors returned to untie him and bury him beneath his beloved tree; one of them ''told everyone who would listen that Mr. Crawford's eyes had been carved out.''
Since returning from Korea, Frank has suffered frightening episodes in which he is overwhelmed with gruesome hallucinations. He has done a stint in a mental hospital, and nearly kills a man at a train stop on the way back to Georgia.
Earlier, after returning from the war, Frank had met Lily, an ambitious seamstress who wanted to open her own dressmaking shop. She offered Frank a respite from his nightmares, but even on good days, he often sank into lethargic stupors. Lily grew impatient with his inability to cope with ''the small mechanics of life'' -- dealing with unpaid bills, frequent gas leaks, mice, quarreling neighbors -- and infuriated by his lack of enthusiasm for her dream of buying a house of her own.
This divide between those who yearn for a better life and those trapped in a deadening struggle for mere survival is a familiar one in Morrison novels. Many of her characters are so beaten down by the burdens of poverty or familial dysfunction -- heightened by the historical weight, in some cases, of slavery and racial persecution -- that they seem trapped in a slough of passivity and despond, content with, or resigned to, a life of mere endurance. Others are propelled -- by love, by ambition or by the centrifugal forces of history -- to seek an identity or a place in the world beyond.
As a teenager Frank had been one of those seeking to reinvent himself, which is why he and his two best friends joined the Army. But after the horrors of the war, he too has sunk into an angry crouch, worn down by the exigencies of daily life and frightened of his own violent nature. It is only a cry for help from his sister, who has gone to work for a sinister doctor near Atlanta, that rouses him into action.
Although Ms. Morrison's portraits of this evil physician and Frank and Cee's monstrous grandmother Lenore verge on fairy tale caricature, this economical tale is largely free of the didactic writing that turned ''Paradise'' and ''Love'' into brittle, cartoonish exercises, pitting women against women, women against men, young against old.
Instead Ms. Morrison has found a new, angular voice and straight-ahead storytelling style that showcase her knowledge of her characters, and the ways in which violence and passion and regret are braided through their lives, the ways in which love and duty can redeem a blighted past.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
 ''Home'' is the new novel by the author Toni Morrison. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL LIONSTAR)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); ARMIES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); KOREAN WAR (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%) GEORGIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

TITLE: Home (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



291 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Freight Train Late in Charlotte? Blame Chicago

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- When it comes to rail traffic, Chicago is America's speed bump.
Shippers complain that a load of freight can make its way from Los Angeles to Chicago in 48 hours, then take 30 hours to travel across the city. A recent trainload of sulfur took some 27 hours to pass through Chicago -- an average speed of 1.13 miles per hour, or about a quarter the pace of many electric wheelchairs.
With freight volume in the United States expected to grow by more than 80 percent in the next 20 years, delays are projected to only get worse.
The underlying reasons for this sprawling traffic jam are complex, involving history, economics and a nation's disinclination to improve its roads, bridges and rails. 
Six of the nation's seven biggest railroads pass through the city, a testament to Chicago's economic might when the rail lines were laid from the 1800s on. Today, a quarter of all rail traffic in the nation touches Chicago. Nearly half of what is known as intermodal rail traffic, the big steel boxes that can be carried aboard ships, trains or trucks, roll by or through this city.
The slowdown involves more than freight. The other day, William C. Thompson, a project manager for the Association of American Railroads, stood next to a crossroads of steel in the Englewood neighborhood pointing to a web of tracks used by freight trains and Amtrak passenger trains that intersected tracks for Metra, Chicago's commuter rail. The commuter trains get to go first, he said, and so ''Amtrak tells me they have more delays here than anywhere else in the system.''
More delays than anywhere else in the Chicago area? No, he said. ''In the entire United States.''
Now, federal, state, local and industry officials are completing the early stages of a $3.2 billion project to untangle Chicago's rail system -- not just for its residents, who suffer commuter train delays and long waits in their cars at grade crossings, but for the rest of the nation as well.
The program, called Create (an acronym for Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency Program), is intended to replace 25 rail intersections with overpasses and underpasses that will smooth the flow of traffic for the 1,300 freight and passenger trains that muscle through the city each day, and to separate tracks now shared by freight and passenger trains at critical spots. Fifty miles of new track will link yards and create a second east-west route across the city, building redundancy into the overburdened system.
Fourteen of the 70 projects have been completed so far, and 12 more are under way, including the $140 million ''Englewood flyover,'' or overpass.
While much of the country's attention in transportation issues is focused on high-speed rail projects trumpeted by the Obama administration, Create is largely about bringing old-fashioned low-speed rail up to modern standards. Innovative financing combines federal, state and private money from various programs, including the federal stimulus packages. Create even uses some funds tied to high-speed rail, since many of the projects are being designed to accommodate those lines in the future.
One of the biggest holdups for freight traffic is that Chicago's crowded rails must also get hundreds of thousands of commuters to work and home mornings and evenings, and so by an agreement known as the Chicago Protocol, the shared tracks and intersections belong to passenger rail during rush hours.
The progress of a few recent trains as measured by the railroads shows how the delays occur. Among them was a coal train traveling 1,100 miles east from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming.
The train reached Chicago in 60 hours; its average speed, with delays for traffic control and a delivery schedule on the first leg, was 18 miles per hour. Within the ''corral'' of the greater Chicago area, the average speed dropped to 3.9 miles per hour, the pace of a rapid walk. It took more than 10 hours to move the 40 miles across the city. It had to stop completely on the outskirts of town during commuter rush hours and wait its turn at ''interlockings'' -- go-slow rail intersections like the one at Englewood. Once outside Chicago, the train's average leapt to 36 miles per hour.
Some of the causes of delay might have seemed outdated in the 20th century, much less the 21st, like manual switches that engineers have to throw after their trains have passed. Create is replacing them with electronic switches and online traffic control networks, but until then engineers at some points have to get out of their cabins, walk the length of the train back to the switch -- a mile or more -- operate the switch, and then trudge back to their place at the head of the train before setting out again.
Chicago had lived with its rail anachronisms and idiosyncrasies for decades, but everything fell apart in a 1999 blizzard that paralyzed the city's rails and backed up train traffic across the United States for months.
''The traffic just kept coming and coming and coming,'' said David Grewe, a supervisor for Union Pacific Railroad. ''We basically waited for the spring thaw.''
The resulting plan to fix its rail problems started with efforts to reduce delays by improving coordination among the six freight rail companies, an effort that includes Mr. Grewe, as well as Metra and Amtrak. ''You would have thought that coordination would have taken place in the past,'' Mr. Grewe said. ''Unfortunately, it didn't.''
Mr. Thompson, the rail association's program manager for Create, said that building during a recession had produced a bonus, as construction companies eager to get the work have come in under budget on every project. ''It's a very good time to be building infrastructure,'' he said.
With more than a dozen of the smaller projects in place, rail officials say they have already seen some reduction in delays, said Joe Shachter, director of public and intermodal transportation for the Illinois Department of Transportation, with bigger improvements to come. ''The next two or three years in particular we think are going to show great advances,'' he said.
But the full benefits will be felt only if all of the projects can be completed, Mr. Thompson said: a knot of interrelated problems requires a network of solutions.
And there lies a potentially larger problem than anything in the steel rails that snake across the city. While some of the financing for Create has come from private industry and state bonds, further progress depends almost entirely on the ability of Congress to pass transportation legislation. That legislation has historically been passed in a bipartisan manner. But Congress, eager to squeeze the budget and in continual disagreement about the nation's priorities, has found itself repeatedly at an impasse over the current transportation bill.
To Brian Imus, staff director of Illinois PIRG, a consumer group, ''it seems like as much gridlock as we've got with our trains, it's even worse in Washington, D.C.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chicago is the place where many of the nation's trains grind to a halt, but a major construction project may speed things up. Above, a Metra maintenance center. (A15)
William C. Thompson, a project manager, at a site described as Amtrak's most congested intersection, the cause of many delays.
 David Grewe, a supervisor for Union Pacific Railroad, said the different rail companies had failed to coordinate in the past. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) MAP: Untangling Chicago's Rail Mess: A quarter of the nation's rail traffic touches Chicago, which has long suffered from freight traffic jams and delays. A $3.2 billion project aims to improve traffic for the 1,300 freight and passenger trains that pass through the city each day by adding overpasses, underpasses and 50 miles of new track. (Source: Bureau of Transportation Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (78%); RAIL CROSSINGS (78%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (65%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (56%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN RAILROADS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



292 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2268 words

HEADLINE: A Regime's Tight Grip on AIDS

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
HAVANA -- Yudelsy Garcia O'Connor, the first baby known to have been born with H.I.V. in Cuba, is not merely still alive. She is vibrant, funny and, at age 25, recently divorced but hoping to remarry and have children.
Her father died of AIDS when she was 10, her mother when she was 23. She was near death herself in her youth.
''I'm not afraid of death,'' she said. ''I know it could knock on my door. It comes for everyone. But I take my medicine.''
Ms. Garcia is alive thanks partly to lucky genes, and partly to the intensity with which Cuba has attacked its AIDS epidemic. Whatever debate may linger about the government's harsh early tactics -- until 1993, everyone who tested positive for H.I.V. was forced into quarantine -- there is no question that they succeeded. 
Cuba now has one of the world's smallest epidemics, a mere 14,038 cases. Its infection rate is 0.1 percent, on par with Finland, Singapore and Kazakhstan. That is one-sixth the rate of the United States, one-twentieth of nearby Haiti.
The population of Cuba is only slightly larger than that of New York City. In the three decades of the global AIDS epidemic, 78,763 New Yorkers have died of AIDS. Only 2,364 Cubans have.
Other elements have contributed to Cuba's success: It has free universal basic health care; it has stunningly high rates of H.I.V. testing; it saturates its population with free condoms, concentrating on high-risk groups like prostitutes; it gives its teenagers graphic safe-sex education; it rigorously traces the sexual contacts of each person who tests positive.
By contrast, the response in the United States -- which records 50,000 new infections every year -- seems feeble. Millions of poor people never see a doctor. Testing is voluntary, and many patients do not return for their results. Sex education is so politicized that many schools teach nothing about protected sex; condoms are expensive, and distribution of free ones is haphazard.
Cuba has succeeded even though it has the most genetically diverse epidemic outside Africa. Almost all American cases are of one strain, subtype B. Cuba has 21 different strains.
The genetic diversity is a legacy of its foreign aid. Since the 1960s, Cuba has sent abroad thousands of ''internationalists'' -- soldiers, doctors, teachers and engineers. Stationed all over Africa, they brought back a wide array of strains. According to a study in 2002, 11 of Cuba's 21 strains are unknown elsewhere, formed when two others mixed.
And Cuba's success has come despite its being a sex tourism destination for Europeans and Canadians.
While the police enforce laws against overt streetwalking, bars and hotel lobbies in downtown Havana are filled with young women known as jineteras -- slang for ''jockeys'' -- who approach foreigners, asking if they would like to go for a drink, or perhaps dancing, with the unspoken assumption that it will lead to more. Even so, of the roughly 1,000 new infections diagnosed each year, 81 percent are among men and very few among young unmarried women.
''Most of those who sleep with tourists know to use condoms,'' said Dr. Ribero Wong, an AIDS specialist here.
In a survey in 2009, 77 percent of all sex workers said they regularly used condoms.
There are male jineteras for gay tourists too, of course, ''but we believe the main vector is within the people,'' said Dr. Luis Estruch Rancano, deputy minister for public health. ''Mainly, the very promiscuous group in the homosexual community who have many partners and don't take precautions.''
One example is Carlos Emilio Garcia, 50, a registered nurse who lives and works at a former quarantine sanitarium outside Havana. He had negative H.I.V. tests at his job every six months from 1990 to 1996, but became infected in 1997.
He admits to having had many partners; as he put it, ''No, I don't know who my assassin is.''
Asked why a well-educated nurse would risk sex without a condom, he waved his hands in the air and replied, ''You know -- because we all do crazy things sometimes.''
The few Cuban women who are infected usually get the virus from partners who are secretly bisexual, experts said.
''Homo-bisexual transmission'' is its own category in Cuba; socially, a man who occasionally has sex with other men is not considered gay if he is a ''top'' -- the penetrative partner, explained Ramon Arango Garcia, a fashion designer and educator at the National AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Disease Prevention Center.
Heroin use, which drives epidemics in many countries, is virtually nonexistent in Cuba, officials insist.
And since 1986, only 38 babies have been born with the virus. In Cuba's cradle-to-grave health care system, pregnant women get up to 12 free prenatal checkups, during which they are tested for H.I.V. at least twice.
Before antiretroviral drugs were available, H.I.V.-infected women were offered abortions or, if they chose to deliver, Caesareans and free infant formula to discourage breast-feeding and reduce the risk of transmission. Now they get the drugs free.
Universal Coverage
As broken as it is economically, Cuba still points proudly to one legacy of its 1959 revolution: Basic health care is universal and free. Cuba has 535,000 health care workers (''We're all either doctors or baseball players,'' one hospital microbiologist joked) and each citizen is officially registered with a family doctor nearby; if a patient skips a checkup, the doctor is expected to find out why.
''I was trained to expect my patients to come to me,'' said Dr. Rafael Mazin, senior AIDS adviser for the Pan American Health Organization in Washington, who is Mexican. ''In Cuba, the doctor comes to you.''
Cuba is tied with the United States in both life expectancy and infant mortality.
Dr. Jorge Perez Avila is Cuba's Tony Fauci, its best-known AIDS doctor. He is grandfatherly now, and clearly much loved by former patients like Ms. Garcia, but he has memories of helping his bus driver father make gasoline bombs to throw at the police during the Batista government. As a teenager he dropped out of school to live in the mountains, teaching villagers to read under a literacy program after Castro came to power.
He treated Ms. Garcia's parents on their deathbeds and heard her father beg, ''Do whatever it takes to help my daughter live.'' (Her father, who had been a soldier in Angola, was a truck driver. He had nine girlfriends in different towns, five of whom he infected.)
Many medical authorities agree that Cuba had an early and effective response to the epidemic. In his book, ''AIDS: Confessions to a Doctor,'' published only in Spanish, Dr. Perez gave his account of the meeting that galvanized Cuba's response.
In 1983, Fidel Castro visited the Pedro Kouri Institute, Cuba's top tropical disease hospital, to hear a presentation on malaria and dengue fever.
As it ended, he suddenly asked the director, ''Gustavo, what are you doing to keep AIDS from entering Cuba?''
Dr. Gustavo Kouri, son of the institute's founder, was caught off guard, Dr. Perez said, and stammered: ''AIDS, comandante? AIDS? It is a new disease. We don't even know whether it's produced by a bacteria, a virus or a fungus. There isn't much data on it, just what's been reported in the United States and a few cases in Europe. It will take time to know how big it is.''
Mr. Castro replied: ''I think it will be the epidemic of this century. And it's your responsibility, Gustavo, to stop it becoming a major problem here.''
This was two years before any American president publicly uttered the word ''AIDS.'' Asked how Mr. Castro could have been so prescient, Dr. Perez struggled to find the right word, then said: ''Castro has luz larga'' -- ''big lights,'' the Cuban slang for automobile high beams. ''He reads a lot. He sees far ahead.''
Dr. Perez is simultaneously both a fan of the Castro government and a bit of a cynic; on Dec. 1, he led a ''Viva, Fidel!'' cheer at his hospital's World AIDS Day.But he also mentioned that Mr. Castro once praised him by saying: ''Jorge, I've been reading your mail. Your patients say very nice things about you.''
The medical establishment reacted quickly. The first step was to throw out all imported blood -- 20,000 units. That avoided the devastation that the hemophiliac populations in the United States and France suffered.
Doctors were sent to Brazil and France to study cases.
All of the country's family doctors were ordered to watch for infections that indicate AIDS like Kaposi's sarcoma or Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.
Because there was no H.I.V. test yet, the first cases were found late in the disease, leading doctors to think most patients died within a year -- an erroneous assumption that helped justify the quarantine policy.
In 1986, blocked by the embargo from buying American test kits, Cuba bought 750,000 French ones.
According to Dr. Maria Isela Lantero, AIDS chief at the Health Ministry's, Cuba's 11 million citizens have been tested 43 million times; last year, more than two million tests were done. That is the equivalent of testing the sexually active population every three years, though in reality the focus is on high-risk groups, who are tested more often.
Cubans returning from abroad are routinely tested, as are pregnant women, prisoners, soldiers, hospital patients, health workers and anyone treated for venereal disease. So is anyone whose family doctor suspects he or she is gay, a sex worker or otherwise at risk.
Haydee Martinez Obregon, 33, who has lived in the AIDS sanitarium in Sancti Spiritus, in central Cuba, since she was 19, is an example of that. (She lives there by choice, she said, because she has no home outside.)
Asked how she learned she was infected, she said, ''My family doctor thought it was a good idea to test me because I was so promiscuous.''
And how did he know that?
''My mother told him everything.''
Anonymous voluntary testing is also available at 700 clinics and hospitals.Anyone who tests positive gets an appointment with an epidemiology nurse, who asks for the names of everyone he or she has ever slept with.
By law, answering is voluntary.
''If they say no, nothing happens,'' Dr. Perez said.
But pressure is clearly applied. A patient who says no to the nurse gets an appointment with the doctor, then with a social worker and then sometimes with a psychologist. Then a team of H.I.V.-positive educators will make a home visit. So might the local Committee for the Defense of the Revolution. Depending on whom one asks, those committees are the defenders of Cuban democracy, domestic spies or just state-sponsored Nosy Parkers.
Some still refuse. Arachu Castro, a professor of global health at Harvard Medical School who often works in Cuba, described one woman who absolutely insisted that she had never slept with anyone but her husband, who was virus-free.
''We called her the Immaculate Infection,'' she said.
There are other subtle pressures, Dr. Castro said. Socialist education teaches Cubans to feel responsible for one another. Also, most Cubans subsist partly on government rations and the sick get extra food, and their lifesaving drugs, from the government.
Everyone who tests positive also must take a two-week course in ''living responsibly with H.I.V.''
Rising Challenge
With mandatory quarantine long gone and the virus now mostly in gay and bisexual men, new infections are slowly but steadily rising. They now approach 1,000 a year, ''and we're waiting for the plateau,'' said Dr. Jose Joanes Fiol, the Health Ministry's chief epidemiologist.
Today, condoms and sex education are the chief weapons.
Cuban society is the opposite of puritanical; scanty clothing is routine, suggestive flirtation is common, and so are divorce and extramarital affairs.
The government distributes more than 100 million condoms a year. Every place with young customers, even pizzerias, is required to stock them.
''The first ones we got were from China, and had butterflies and penguins on the package,'' Manuel Hernandez Fernandez, an AIDS educator for 25 years, said with a snort. ''We had to Cubanize them.''
Now one shows a man groping a naked breast; another has two men.
During a condom giveaway for World AIDS Day, women laughed as volunteers -- mostly gay men -- dropped condoms into their cleavages.
''Just one?'' one woman said. ''What am I going to do with just one?''
Omairy Lorenzo, 18, a journalism student in Havana watching the giveaway, said she had been shown how to put a condom on a model penis at school when she was 12.
Her classmate Abel Lescaille, 20, said, ''Sometimes they do so much sex education that you get tired of it.''
Until recently, Cuban society and government policies were deeply homophobic; in the revolution's early days, gay men were sent to labor camps. Fidel Castro now publicly says he regrets that action.
Now there is more acceptance.
At the same time, the government controls virtually all real estate, and there are no gay bars or hotels. Cruising men often have unsafe sex in abandoned buildings or parks where muggers lurk and the police conduct raids, said Liban Molina, 41, a volunteer at an AIDS prevention hot line.
Only about half of the 11,674 Cubans living with H.I.V. are now on antiretroviral drugs.
In theory, Cuba would be an ideal laboratory for ''test and treat,'' the new protocol in which patients who test positive go on drugs immediately to reduce by 95 percent their chance of infecting anyone else.
However, it requires modern drugs and Cuba makes only the older, harsher ones. Only about 1,100 patients get new drugs, paid for by foreign donors.
''We know about test-and-treat,'' Dr. Perez said. ''We would do it, if we could. But we need the funds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONTROL: Juan Carlos Miranda, top, an AIDS patient near Havana, with Dr. Victor Maracha. Above, Fidel Castro, at a 1983 meeting, urged Dr. Gustavo Kouri, standing at left, to take measures against the emerging disease. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DR. JORGE PEREZ)(D1)
FROM DAY 1: Yudelsy Garcia O'Connor, the first Cuban known to have been born with H.I.V. Death comes for everyone, she said, ''but I take my medicine.''
 ON THE FRONT LINES: Dr. Jorge Perez Avila, Cuba's best-known AIDS doctor, in his office at the Pedro Kouri Institute. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); BIODIVERSITY (74%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (74%); DEATH & DYING (72%); LOBBYING (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (63%); PROSTITUTION (63%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



293 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Party of Milosevic Emerges As Kingmaker in Serbian Vote

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
BELGRADE, SERBIA -- The Socialist Party of the late Serbian strongman Slobodan Milosevic emerged on Monday as the kingmaker in Serbian parliamentary elections in which deep disillusionment over economic hardship dented the Democratic Party of President Boris Tadic.
Mirroring the trend in elections in France and Greece, voters here expressed their anger on Sunday against the governing party by turning to nationalist and populist leaders once allied with Mr. Milosevic, who as president plunged Yugoslavia into war and more than two decades of international isolation, and died in 2006 while on trial for war crimes .
The Serbian electoral commission is not expected to release the final results until Thursday, but partial tallies give the Serbian Progressive Party of Tomislav Nikolic, a former pro-Russian hard-liner, 23.53 percent, compared with 22.09 percent for the Democratic Party, led by Mr. Tadic, a former psychology professor supported by Brussels and Washington. 
Mr. Nikolic, despite his slight lead in the vote count, declared victory on Sunday night, expressing optimism that his party would come to power. But with his party and Mr. Tadic's Democrats appearing far from a majority, analysts predicted that the Democrats were better placed to remain in power by forming a pro-European coalition government with smaller parties. The two leaders were neck and neck in the presidential race, but experts expect the pro-Western Mr. Tadic to win a runoff vote on May 20.
Voters faced a stark choice in the elections between pro-Western parties promising to continue Serbia's path toward the European Union and nationalist parties calling for closer ties with Russia. Mr. Nikolic, a former cemetery chief, had been an ardent supporter of Russia but now says he supports Serbia's membership in the European Union. Analysts are skeptical, saying his about-face was calculated to win votes and attain power. Mr. Nikolic broke in 2008 from the far-right Radical Party whose leader is now in the Hague on charges of war crimes.
While Mr. Tadic has had successes on the international stage, attaining E.U. candidacy status for Serbia in March, his government has been undermined by 24 percent unemployment, a weak dinar, accusations of endemic corruption, and weak economic growth. In a country of 7.3 million people, about 700,000 are unemployed.
Among the biggest beneficiaries of the resentment over the country's economic doldrums was the Socialist Party, once presided over by Mr. Milosevic, which won 16 percent of the vote. Its leader, Ivica Dacic, interior minister in the current coalition government of Mr. Tadic, has sought to rebrand the Socialists into a mainstream social democratic party.
On Sunday, Mr. Dacic, a former spokesman for Mr. Milosevic, indicated that being made prime minister was the price of his political support.
''Whoever wants to talk to us will have to understand that we have risen from the ashes,'' he told euphoric supporters as fireworks exploded and trumpets blared outside Socialist Party headquarters. ''Maybe Serbia doesn't know today who will be president, but it knows who will be prime minister.''
While Mr. Dacic has sought to distance himself from Mr. Milosevic's war-mongering nationalism, he has not apologized for the Balkan wars of the 1990s in which at least 125,000 people died.
In an interview before the elections, Mr. Dacic emphasized that he was a pro-European modernizer and had no desire to return to the Milosevic years. But he also indicated that he could take a more hard-line stance than Mr. Tadic on major issues like Europe and Kosovo, making him potentially an intransigent interlocutor for Brussels and Washington if he becomes prime minister.
Mr. Dacic said that it would be unacceptable if the European Union demanded that Serbia recognize Kosovo as a precondition to E.U. membership and that such pressure would push Serbia closer to Russia. Serbia does not recognize Kosovo, which declared independence from Serbia in 2008, stoking fierce resentment among Serbs, who regard Kosovo as their medieval heartland.
In a suggestion that is sure to cause alarm in Brussels and Washington, Mr. Dacic said partitioning Kosovo, whose north is dominated by Serbs loyal to Belgrade who do not recognize Kosovo's authority, could be a solution to tensions there.
While Mr. Dacic says he wants Serbia to continue on its European course, he is generally antagonistic to the International Monetary Fund's support for Serbia and has said he would expel the I.M.F. He also has expressed deep antipathy against the privatization of Serbian assets.
During the campaign, he said it was not Washington, Moscow or Brussels that would set his agenda but the Serbian people.
At a recent Socialist rally, where rousing wartime songs blared from loudspeakers, Nikola Pajkic, 75, a retired plumber, said he had voted for Mr. Dacic because he had lived better during the Milosevic era than he did today. ''Back then, we had a better life, and I could go on vacation or even go to a restaurant with my wife,'' he said. ''Today we have nothing.''
Daniel Zdravkovic, a 21-year-old mechanic, was too young to remember the Milosevic era but said that he, too, was nostalgic for the socialist equality his parents and grandparents had known. He said he liked Mr. Dacic because he was honest, strong and decisive.
''I am too young to remember the Milosevic years, but they couldn't have been worse than today when no one has a job,'' ''I would rather have closer ties with Russia, which is a better friend to Serbia than Europe.''
Analysts said while the deep economic crisis had pushed voters toward populist parties, idealizations of the Milosevic period -- when inflation rose 40 percent per hour during some days of war in the 1990s -- were not grounded in reality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); WAR CRIMES (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CORRUPTION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (56%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (52%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); GREECE (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



294 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: AMC Said to Be Talking to Chinese Buyer

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- AMC Entertainment, which owns the second-largest movie theater chain in North America, is in talks to sell the company or a significant stake in it to the Wanda Group, one of China's largest theater owners, according to people briefed on the discussions.
If completed, the deal will begin a new phase in China's push into the global film industry by sharply increasing its leverage with Hollywood and creating the first theater chain to have a commanding presence in the world's two largest movie markets. 
The people who described the discussions spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private and not finished. The off-and-on negotiations, they said, began more than a year ago, then became more serious in recent weeks, as AMC scrapped plans for a stock offering that would have raised as much as $450 million.
AMC has been owned since 2004 by an investment group that includes the Apollo Investment Fund, J. P. Morgan Partners, Bain Capital Investors, the Carlyle Group and others. Apollo and its founder, Leon D. Black, also had a major stake in the chain before it was sold eight years ago for about $1.7 billion to a group in which Apollo and J. P. Morgan are the largest holders, with about 39 percent each.
Neither Gerardo I. Lopez, AMC's chief, nor a company spokesman responded to queries. A spokesman for Apollo declined to comment. A representative for Wanda in China was not immediately available.
Any deal, whether for the entire company or for a major stake, would probably put a current value of roughly $1.5 billion on AMC. That figure is based on its reported cash flow of about $181 million for the 52 weeks ended Sept. 29 and an industry expectation that theater chains in the United States will continue to sell for as much as eight times their annual cash flow.
For AMC's investors, a recent spike in ticket sales may present an opportunity to cash out an investment that has been in place longer than is usual for hedge-fund money and to invest in businesses with more growth potential.
Wanda's interest in AMC comes as China has been rushing headlong into new business alliances with American movie companies, as it seeks to double the contribution to its economy from entertainment and media in the next five years.
Wanda, a conglomerate whose interests include commercial properties, luxury hotels and department stores, is involved with film production and distribution in China. It operates a rapidly growing theater chain that now has 86 multiplex locations, and a total of 730 screens, including 47 large-format Imax screens.
On its Web site, Wanda says it accounts for about 15 percent of China's movie ticket sales, which were about $2.1 billion last year. Wanda has said that by 2015 it plans to more than double its screen count to about 2,000.
Founded in 1920 by three brothers with a single Missouri theater, AMC, based in Kansas City, later was a leader in building complexes to show more than one movie at a time. It now operates about 350 theaters with 5,050 screens. (The biggest theater chain is Regal Entertainment, which has 522 theaters with 6,580 screens.) AMC is known for having better locations than some of its rivals, which include Cinemark, the third-largest chain. Six of last year's 10 top-grossing theaters belonged to AMC.
In the United States, the major movie studios are largely barred from owning theaters under federal consent decrees that long ago broke up an integrated system under which the majors were able to produce, distribute and exhibit their own films.
After the breakup, theater chains became the direct customer for studio movies. The theaters sell tickets to those movies, splitting the proceeds with the distributor under deals that are often fiercely negotiated.
Last year, however, AMC expanded into movie acquisition. It joined with Regal to form Open Road Films, which buys and distributes the kind of midbudget pictures that studios have started to neglect in favor of megabudget film franchises. Open Road releases have included ''The Grey,'' an action drama starring Liam Neeson that took in $51.6 million earlier this year.
AMC and the other big theater chains are experiencing an upswing because of blockbusters like ''The Hunger Games'' and ''The Avengers,'' which took in $207.4 million over the weekend to set an opening record. Ticket sales in North America for the year to date total $3.6 billion, a 16 percent increase from the same period a year ago, according to analysts. Attendance is up 18 percent to about 456 million.
But the last few years have been extremely difficult for theater operators. Last year, attendance in North America fell to 1.28 billion, a 4 percent decline from 2010 and the lowest total in 16 years. Ticket revenue for last year totaled $10.2 billion, a 3 percent decrease.
Chinese theatergoers have shown a taste for effects-laden American fantasies and action films like ''Avatar'' and ''Mission: Impossible -- Ghost Protocol.''
On the flip side, Chinese-made films have made little impression in the North American market, which remains five times the size of China's, though people briefed on the current deal say Wanda's ownership of theaters here might create a pipeline for Chinese films in the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Loews AMC Theater on 34th Street in Manhattan in March. AMC is the second-largest theater chain in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MINCHILLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (92%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RETAILERS (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); TICKET SALES (61%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: GERARDO I LOPEZ (58%); LEON BLACK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



295 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Philippine Films Mature, And the U.S. Takes Notice

BYLINE: By FLOYD WHALEY

 BODY:
MANILA -- Teenagers drive down a dark, abandoned road. Their engine seizes. They must walk through the night as sinister shadows flicker around them. Before long, they are ensnared in the horrific events that have taken place in the area.
That is the premise of the Philippine movie ''The Road,'' which contains many familiar elements of a horror film: a dark plot, a jarring soundtrack and creepy backdrops.
But what is most notable about the film is what is missing. It lacks the melodrama, simplistic plot and poor production standards that have been hallmarks of many movies made in the Philippines in recent years.
The film, which has received positive reviews from horror movie critics in the United States, caught the eye of a midsize American film distributor. Starting Friday, Freestyle Releasing, based in Los Angeles, will show ''The Road'' in more than 50 theaters across North America. It will be released simultaneously on DVD and via the iTunes Store, Amazon.com and Netflix. 
''As far as we know, this is the first Filipino film to be commercially distributed in the United States,'' Annette Gozon-Abrogar, the president of GMA Films, a Philippine production company, said at a news conference in Manila announcing the deal. ''This will be distributed like a Hollywood-produced movie.''
Other Asian horror movies have been exported to the U.S. with varying degrees of success, but they did not attract major audiences until they were remade for American viewers. Among them were ''The Ring'' (from ''Ringu,'' a Japanese film), ''The Grudge'' (from ''Ju-on,'' also Japanese) and ''The Uninvited'' (from ''A Tale of Two Sisters,'' a South Korean film).
If the debut of ''The Road'' hits the mark with American audiences, it could open the door to the lucrative North American market and revitalize a national film industry in the Philippines that by all accounts is in need of help.
From the 1960s through the 1990s, about 140 locally produced films a year were shown in the Philippines. It was during that time that Joseph Estrada shot to stardom and rode his on-screen charisma to the presidency.
But in the past decade, the number of locally made films has plunged by nearly half, to an average of 73 a year, according to a report by the country's National Statistical Coordination Board.
In 2011, only about a third of the 229 films shown commercially in the Philippines were locally produced, the report noted. The vast majority were the Hollywood movies loved by many people in this former U.S. colony, where English is widely spoken. Last year, the top-grossing film in the Philippines was ''Transformers: Dark of the Moon.''
''Why is the local film industry dying?'' asked the report.
As in many other developing Asian countries, rampant piracy has been a major factor undercutting development of the homegrown movie business. In the Philippines, a film that can be seen in the theater for a ticket that costs 120 pesos, or about $2.80, can often be bought at the same time from vendors of pirated DVDs for 40 pesos. The Film Academy of the Philippines estimates that the industry lost about 4 billion pesos last year to piracy.
Illustrating the pervasiveness of the problem, Ronald Llamas, the political adviser to President Benigno S. Aquino III, was photographed in January buying about 2,000 pesos' worth of pirated DVDs at a local market in Manila. He later apologized.
Many also blame the decline of the local film business on a 30 percent tax on gross revenues that was instituted in the 1990s. Adding in a 12 percent value-added tax, Philippine movie producers were paying a tax rate of 42 percent for much of the past two decades.
''That killed the industry,'' said Pepe Diokno, a producer and director whose film ''Clash'' won the Luigi De Laurentiis Award at the Venice Film Festival in 2009.
''The tax killed innovation and killed the chance that producers would take risks with narratives and unknown stars,'' he said. ''Producers went with formula, with melodrama and slapstick, because they had to be sure it would sell.''
In 2009, the revenue tax was lowered to a more manageable 10 percent. That was not the only major change in recent years. The advent of affordable digital equipment has allowed a boom in the production of independent films in the Philippines.
More than half of the local films shown in the past three years have been independent productions, according to the statistics board.
''There has been a revolution in technology,'' said Yam Laranas, the director of ''The Road.'' ''Ten years ago, few people could afford to make an independent film in the Philippines. A nontraditional story was not economically viable.''
''Things are changing,'' he said, noting that he had shot ''The Road'' to U.S. theatrical release standards on Red Digital Cinema equipment that cost a small fraction of the price of traditional video cameras. ''A lot of independent directors and studios are making innovative films because the costs are so much lower. It is less of a risk.''
According to Mr. Laranas, the proliferation of independent digital movie producers has had an effect on studios. He said that while ''The Road'' had been backed by a major mainstream studio in the Philippines, it shared many of the traits of independent films, including an unconventional story line.
''It used to be that producers and studios in the Philippines took the attitude, 'They will eat what we feed them,''' he said. ''Now, more movies are coming out that are not your usual fare, and mass audiences are excited to see these films.''
In 2009, studios were put on notice by the release of the movie ''Zombadings,'' an independently produced horror comedy about the struggles of gay zombies.
Rather than simply mocking gay characters, a common feature of Philippine films, the movie delivered a message of tolerance wrapped in over-the-top comedy and gruesome visual effects.
It was a surprising success, bringing in more than 30 million pesos at the box office. That pales in comparison with the more than 400 million pesos that a Hollywood blockbuster can earn in the Philippines, but it was a substantial sum for a local, independent film.
Despite the success of such independent films, mainstream Philippine studios have been slow to emulate them, Mr. Diokno said. But Filipino filmgoers are becoming more sophisticated, and the studios neglect this development at their peril, he said.
''When we go around to schools and provincial areas and show independent films, audiences are very involved,'' he said. ''The reaction they give local independent movies is even more visceral than they give Hollywood movies.''
''I don't understand why studio heads don't realize that audiences can take nonlinear stories, flawed characters and subtleties,'' Mr. Diokno said. ''They haven't picked up on it yet, but the audience is there for those kinds of movies.''
The Philippine audience was there for ''The Road,'' which unravels a grim mystery with a story told in reverse. Made for 20 million pesos, it grossed 47 million pesos in the first three weeks of its release.
However, establishing an American audience for the film will be no simple task, said David Chu, managing director of Asian Media Rights, a New York-based company that distributes Asian films in North America. He noted that only a few Asian films were typically widely released theatrically in the United States and that they were usually top action and martial arts films.
Successfully promoting a film that is being released in North American theaters is a significant investment and risk, he said.
''Some theaters require that you advertise in local newspapers,'' he said. ''There are billboards and bus stop advertisements. And it is not just a dollar investment. It requires personnel. It takes a lot of effort to promote a theatrical release.''
He noted that on the bright side, the film was being released simultaneously on multiple digital platforms, a form of distribution that his company prefers.
''Producers often equate success with how well their film did at the box office,'' Mr. Chu said. ''But there is a growing market outside of the theaters. You don't need to be in the theaters to be a success.''
Backers of ''The Road'' are betting that one way or another -- in theaters or via downloads -- they can bridge the gap in tastes between Philippine and American audiences.
''Universally, people like to be scared,'' Mr. Laranas said. ''We wanted to do that with a clear narrative, not relying on jump scares, cats jumping out of nowhere. Anyone from Lima to New Jersey can appreciate this film.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from the Philippine film ''The Road,'' which will be released digitally and in North American theaters on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREESTYLE RELEASING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); HORROR FILMS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) PHILIPPINES (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

TITLE: The Road (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



296 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Volume Sales Slip, but Tyson's Earnings Exceed Analyst Estimates

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Tyson Foods said Monday that its quarterly profit beat Wall Street estimates even after the controversy over so-called pink slime hurt beef demand in the United States.
Tyson, which sells beef, pork, chicken and prepared foods, was one of the companies injured by a wave of unflattering news reports about a ground beef filler that critics called pink slime, made from beef scraps sprayed with ammonia gas to kill bacteria. 
The controversy ''temporarily destroyed demand for ground beef and beef in general virtually overnight,'' said James V. Lochner, Tyson's chief operating officer. He said that caused a rapid decline in cattle prices.
''Personally, I don't recall a revenue decline that steep,'' Mr. Lochner said.
Tyson said its income rose to $166 million, or 44 cents a share, from $159 million, or 42 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts on average were expecting 39 cents a share.
Sales rose to $8.27 billion from $8.0 billion, missing analysts' average estimate for $8.49 billion.
Shares of Tyson, which is based in Springdale, Ark., rose 59 cents, or 3.27 percent, to $18.63.
Volume in the quarter, which ended March 31, fell 4.3 percent, pulled down by a 10.7 percent decline in the beef segment. Looking ahead, Tyson said it expected industrywide domestic production of chicken, beef, pork and turkey to decrease by about 4 percent this year, which should continue to support better pricing.
But executives are keeping a cautious eye on the economy and gasoline prices, which could curb consumers' appetite for meat if they climb further.
''What's $4 gas going to do to disposable household income?'' a company executive said in a conference call. Executives also said they thought that meat consumption on the Memorial Day weekend -- the United States' unofficial start of summer -- should outpace last year's holiday.
And with momentum expected to pick up in the third and fourth quarters, the nation's largest meat processor stood by its full-year forecast.
''We still think we have the potential for earnings per share of $2 for the year if we execute as planned,'' said Donnie Smith, chief executive of Tyson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (93%); MEATS (92%); PORK (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (73%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (73%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (90%)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (90%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (90%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (90%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



297 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Exporters' Weakness at Fair Points to Broader Economic Anxiety

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- The green, blue and brown picnic backpacks displayed by the Xiamen Tawa Enterprise at the Canton Fair here in recent days are ingeniously designed, with special pockets for vacuum bottles, silverware and matching cloth napkins.
But what the company does not have is many customers. Several staff members sat around the company's booth on Friday, the last full day of the fair, and complained that their exports to Europe and the United States had dropped 20 percent over the last year and were likely to stay weak after few orders materialized at the fair.
''Over all, there are just fewer people coming by the booth,'' said Randell Liu, Xiamen Tawa's senior sales executive. 
The Canton Fair, China's biggest marketplace for exporters and buyers, announced over the weekend an unexpected decline in contracts signed over the last month at the fair's spring session. The weak result was the latest sign that exporters across China are struggling to maintain their global competitiveness.
Falling export orders are also a warning for the Chinese economy because they coincide with steeply rising wages and higher rents for factory space, pushing many export factories to the brink of insolvency.
Difficulties in the export sector coincide with broader weakness in the economy since last winter, although there were hints of a slight recovery in March. The government has deliberately popped the country's real estate bubble over the last year and is pushing apartment prices down sharply in an effort to make housing more affordable.
The decline in orders at the Canton Fair nonetheless caught traders and investors by surprise. China's central bank pushed down the value of the renminbi against the dollar by 0.22 percent in setting the daily trading band on Monday morning for the Shanghai currency market, the largest one-day move in the renminbi since March 12.
''What we're seeing here is a continued loss of competitiveness,'' in combination with clear weakness in demand from export markets, particularly Europe, said Frederic Neumann, the co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC.
China is scheduled to release its April trade data on Thursday. Taiwan announced on Monday that its exports fell 6.4 percent in April compared with those a year earlier, more than double the decline of 3.1 percent that economists had been expecting.
Assessing the relative importance of China's eroding long-term competitiveness and the short-term weakness of export markets is the subject of considerable disagreement among economists.
Chinese officials have argued that rising costs and a strengthening renminbi have produced an essentially permanent narrowing of China's trade surplus.
The Obama administration and many members of Congress have been more skeptical, suggesting that weak demand from other countries has only temporarily blunted the long-term rise in China's share of foreign markets.
The Canton Fair disclosed during the weekend that contracts signed at its spring session totaled $36 billion, a drop of 2.3 percent in dollar terms from the spring session last year and a decline of 4.8 percent from the session last autumn. The official Xinhua news agency said that it was the first year-over-year decline in Canton Fair contracts in dollar terms since the spring of 2009, at the bottom of the global economic downturn.
Chinese exporters must pay their workers and their rent in renminbi, not dollars. The slide in orders at the Canton Fair has been even steeper in renminbi terms because the Chinese currency has appreciated 3.4 percent over the last 12 months against the dollar.
This has made the decline in the volume of dollar-denominated export contracts at the Canton Fair even more painful for Chinese companies.
Weak orders at the fair contrast with a few signs of health in the export sector. The government's purchasing managers' index for export orders has been above 50, which signals increasing orders, since February.
A similar HSBC index of new export orders, which tends to capture more small and medium-size enterprises, moved above 50 last month. The Canton Fair tends to have a particularly heavy representation of small and medium-size exporters, who are being squeezed the most by rising labor costs as they tend to have invested less in automation.
A nationwide shift is also taking place toward higher-tech industries like electronics manufacturing, an industry in which the fair has somewhat fewer exhibitors.
Stanley Lau, the deputy chairman of the Hong Kong Federation of Industries, a trade group whose members employ 10 million mainland Chinese workers, said that the number of factories in export-oriented areas of southeastern China is steadily declining as costs rise. ''China will still be the world's center of factories, but it will not be the cheapest,'' he said.
Not all exporters are ailing, however. Luxury goods vendors appear to be faring better, as affluent households have resumed spending.
Hongyuan Furniture Manufacturing, a 200-employee company based here in Guangzhou that makes $1,500 to $4,000 home saunas, using infrared light instead of hot rocks to warm occupants, had customers stopping by on Friday at its booth a couple halls away from Xiamen Tawa.
''Even though the economy is down quite a lot, our sales are quite stable,'' with renewed strength emerging particularly in the American market, said Rachel Wang, the company's sales manager. ''From our customers, we hear the economy is picking up -- it's good news.''
But Mr. Liu was more pessimistic, and noted that Xiamen Tawa remained worried about the possibility of further pressure on margins if China's currency climbed further. In negotiating longer-term supply contracts, he said, ''we quote a little bit higher prices to protect ourselves against renminbi appreciation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Picnic backpacks dominate a display at the Xiamen Tawa Enterprise booth at the Canton Fair in Guangzhou, China.
 ''Over all, there are just fewer people coming by the booth,'' said Randell Liu, left, an executive at the company. The exhibition hall at the fair, right, which is China's biggest marketplace for exporters and buyers, had noticeably light traffic last weekend. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FORBES CONRAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CURRENCIES (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); HOME PRICES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (66%); BANKING IN CHINA (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (89%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



298 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: The Structural Revolution

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The country is divided when different people take different sides in a debate. The country is really divided when different people are having entirely different debates. That's what's happening on economic policy.
Many people on the left are having a one-sided debate about how to deal with a cyclical downturn. The main argument you hear from these cyclicalists is that the economy is operating well below capacity. To get it moving at full speed, the government should borrow and spend more. The federal government is now running deficits of about $1 trillion a year. Some of these cyclicalists believe the deficit should be about $1.4 trillion.
The cyclicalists rail against what they see as American austerity-mongers who resist new borrowing. They really rail against the European ones. They see Francois Hollande's victory in France as a sign that, in Europe at least, the pendulum might finally be swinging from austerity to growth. 
Other people -- some on the left but mostly in the center and on the right -- look at the cyclicalists and shrug. It's not that they are necessarily wrong to bash excessive austerity. They're simply failing to address the core issues.
The diverse people in this camp -- and I'm one of them -- believe the core problems are structural, not cyclical. The recession grew out of and exposed long-term flaws in the economy. Fixing these structural problems should be the order of the day, not papering over them with more debt.
There are several overlapping structural problems. First, there are those surrounding globalization and technological change. Hyperefficient globalized companies need fewer workers. As a result, unemployment rises, superstar salaries surge while lower-skilled wages stagnate, the middle gets hollowed out and inequality grows.
Then there are the structural issues surrounding the decline in human capital. The United States, once the world's educational leader, is falling back in the pack. Unemployment is high, but companies still have trouble finding skilled workers.
Then there is political sclerosis. Over the decades, companies and other entities have implanted a growing number of special-interest deals into the tax and regulatory codes, making it harder for politically unconnected, new competitors, making the economy less dynamic.
These and other structural problems have retarded growth and wages for decades. Consumers tried to compensate by borrowing more. Politicians tried to compensate by reducing the tax bill, increasing deficit spending, ensuring easy credit for homebuyers and by helping workers shift out of the hypercompetitive, globalized part of the economy and into the less productive and more sheltered parts of the economy -- mostly into health care, government and education.
But you can only mask structural problems for so long. The whole thing has gone kablooey. The current model, in which we try to compensate for structural economic weakness with tax cuts and an unsustainable welfare state, simply cannot last. The old model is broken. The jig is up.
Unlike the cyclicalists, we structuralists do not believe that the level of government spending is the main factor in determining how fast an economy grows. If that were true, then Greece, Britain and France would have the best economies on earth. (The so-called European austerity is partly mythical.) We believe that the creativity, skill and productivity of the work force matter most, and the openness of the system they inhabit.
Running up huge deficits without fixing the underlying structure will not restore growth. As Raghuram Rajan of the University of Chicago writes in the current issue of Foreign Affairs, ''Since the growth before the crisis was distorted in fundamental ways, it is hard to imagine that governments could restore demand quickly -- or that doing so would be enough to get the global economy back on track. The status quo ante is not a good place to return to because bloated finance, residential construction and government sectors need to shrink, and workers need to move to more productive work.''
Structuralists face a tension: How much should you reduce the pain the unemployed are feeling now, and how much should you devote your resources to long-term reform? There has to be balance. For my taste, the Germans are a bit too willing to impose short-term pain on the diverse national economies in Europe. But they are absolutely right to insist on the sort of structural reforms they themselves passed in the 1990s.
In the United States, there are almost no politicians willing to embrace the cyclicalist agenda, which would mean much larger deficits. Structuralists don't have a perfect champion either. President Obama is too minimalist. He doesn't seem to believe America's structural problems are that big, making his reform ideas small. Mitt Romney and Representative Paul Ryan understand the size of the structural problems, but their reform plans are constrained by the Republican Party's single-minded devotion to tax cuts.
Make no mistake, the old economic and welfare state model is unsustainable. The cyclicalists want to preserve the status quo, but structural change is coming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); INCOME TAX (68%); TAX LAW (65%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



299 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: A Match Oh So Perfectly Mismatched

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Ah, spring, when even a misanthrope's fancy turns to thoughts of love, or at least the vicarious experience of it. Seriously, don't you feel in the mood for a romantic comedy right about now -- one that isn't too sappy on the one hand, or too snarky on the other?
Traditionally we look to the multiplexes to provide us with that fix. But this season you might want to check out what the New York theater has to offer in grown-up love stories. There's ''Once,'' of course, the multi-Tony Award nominee on Broadway, about young Dubliners making music as a substitute for love. But more urgently, through May 27 only, there's Paul Weitz's ''Lonely, I'm Not,'' which opened on Monday night at the Second Stage Theater, in a production starring a wonderfully matched, mismatched Topher Grace and Olivia Thirlby. 
If the charms of ''Once'' are expressly theatrical (even though it's based on a movie), ''Lonely, I'm Not'' feels curiously cinematic in its appeal. Directed by Trip Cullman, this damaged-boy-meets-defensive-girl story has the sweet suspense, elliptical construction and off-kilter charm of an ideal Hollywood rom-com, the kind that you hope (usually in vain) is coming to a screen near you. It's both slight enough and serious enough to scratch an itch without raising welts.
It makes sense that though Mr. Weitz has written an assortment of piquant plays in recent years (''Roulette,'' ''Trust''), he's best known for his work as a director and writer in films. These include ''American Pie,'' ''About a Boy'' and, most relevantly, ''In Good Company,'' a 2004 comic drama that he wrote and directed about a young corporate striver of vast ambition and shaky morality, impeccably embodied by Mr. Grace.
In ''Lonely, I'm Not,'' Mr. Grace portrays an after-the-fall variation on the same type and demonstrates that failures can be just as charming as successes -- perhaps even more so in an age in which the big winners in business are increasingly regarded with suspicion. Porter, Mr. Grace's character, was a prince of Wall Street in his 20s, but flamed out in an unfortunately public nervous breakdown. (He wet himself in midpitch to a group of Citibank executives, while hallucinating that he was bleeding to death.)
Now, four years after that occurrence, he is unemployed and unmotivated in Los Angeles, where the great event of his day is committing to going out for coffee in the morning. Little Dog (Christopher Jackson), a friend who knew Porter when he was referred to in awe as ''the ninja,'' sets him up with Heather (Ms. Thirlby), a work-obsessed analyst of entertainment companies.
Their relative positions in their careers would not seem to inspire hopes of a perfect union. But as Little Dog later says, he knew Porter and Heather would hit it off because they're both so screwed up. What he means by this is obvious in Porter's case. With Heather, who is blind and ferociously independent, it is not so immediately apparent.
As is often the case with rom-coms, plot is minimal. That's plot as opposed to fraught back stories and defining quirks and kinks, which are established here in gradual, evocative detail in a series of quick-take scenes. All that's really happening is a slow, shuffling mating dance in which two people try to find a shared rhythm. And the only urgency lies in whether we believe, for the 90 minutes the show lasts, that this couple just has to be together, or else our hearts will break.
And this I truly believed, though I had pretty much sworn off rom-coms after being dragged to ''Love, Actually'' by my sister eight years ago. In Porter and Heather, Mr. Weitz, Mr. Grace and Ms. Thirlby have shaped characters who are unlikely to be widely loved in real life. You can read each as off-puttingly arrogant in different ways. But Mr. Grace's Porter, who can't pull it together or even see the point in doing so, and Ms. Thirlby's Heather, who is entirely too pulled together, wind up inspiring deep, protective affection in us, as they obviously have in their creators.
While the classic rom-com formula is intact here, as two wounded creatures learn (maybe) to trust someone else, Mr. Weitz tints it with enough individuality to make it fresh. Take, for instance, the first foreplay scene, in which Heather uses a gadget that reads colors aloud for her (so she can coordinate her wardrobe) to scan Porter's clothes and body. (It says that his skin is orange.)
But more important, using a dexterous dramatic shorthand, ''Lonely, I'm Not'' lets us see Porter and Heather as other people -- friends, family and strangers -- see them, and makes sure that we register how incomplete and even damaging those perceptions are. (These 11 varied characters are played by Maureen Sebastian, Mr. Jackson, Lisa Emery and Mark Blum.)
Porter's ex-wife (Ms. Sebastian) is still attracted to him, partly because of a specific sexual skill but also because she enjoys his unhappiness. ''I just love how dead you are,'' she says to him.
And she brings out depths in his masochism that, no matter what ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' tells us, are probably better left unplumbed. (Check out that cigarette lighter scene.) Both Heather's man-wary mother (the always exemplary Ms. Emery) and Porter's scam artist dad (Mr. Blum) help explain why trusting anyone might be a serious problem for their progeny.
Under Mr. Cullman's direction, the performances never force the comedy or the pathos. Mr. Grace does crazy without hysteria, while Ms. Thirlby registers Heather's ingrained anger quietly. They seduce us unconditionally, as their characters do each other, by not coming after us full throttle. The only elements out of sync with the prevailingly elegant indirection are those big neon letters that spell out the titles of each scene. (The set is by Mark Wendland, with projections by Aaron Rhyne.)
For the most part, ''Lonely, I'm Not'' trusts enough in its audience's intelligence to let us connect the thematic dots for ourselves: between psychological cause and effect, between corporate and individual moralities, between forms of sight and sightlessness. It's a production that steers us gently to what should always be a rom-com's most important realization. That would be why two dissimilar souls were really and truly made for each other, whether or not they live happily ever after.
Lonely, I'm Not
By Paul Weitz; directed by Trip Cullman; sets by Mark Wendland; costumes by Emily Rebholz; lighting by Matt Frey; projections by Aaron Rhyne; sound by Bart Fasbender; production stage manager, Lori Ann Zepp; associate artistic director, Christopher Burney; production manager, Jeff Wild; general manager, Dean A. Carpenter. Presented by the Second Stage Theater, Carole Rothman, artistic director; Casey Reitz, executive director. At the Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton; (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. Through May 27. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.
WITH: Mark Blum (Rick/Decter), Lisa Emery (Grace/Yana/Administrator), Topher Grace (Porter), Christopher Jackson (Little Dog/Barista/Waiter), Maureen Sebastian (Carlotta/Wendy/Claire) and Olivia Thirlby (Heather).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lonely, I'm Not: Olivia Thirlby and Topher Grace in this romantic comedy, written by Paul Weitz and directed by Trip Cullman, at the Second Stage Theater.(C1)
 Topher Grace portrays a Wall Street failure and Olivia Thirlby an ambitious businesswoman. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMEDY FILMS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); FILM (75%); WRITERS (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); DRAMA FILMS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); THEATER (56%)

COMPANY: IN GOOD CO AB (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



300 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Few Seize on a U.S. Bond Program Backing Green Energy

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
With the country reeling in 2008 from the financial crisis, Congress created a special program to help struggling local governments finance clean energy projects. Under the initiative, cities and counties could sell bonds to pay for a new wind farm or energy efficient windows at City Hall, and the federal government would help pick up the tab.
But hardly anyone bit. Even as state and local governments struggle to meet higher green energy standards with ever-shrinking budgets, billions of dollars of so-called Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds have gone unused. As of May 3, only about 20 percent of the bonds - roughly $663 million - had been issued, with many states not dipping into their allotments at all. 
The cheap money, say policy analysts and bankers, is not worth the trouble of obtaining it. The program is relatively small. The requirements are confusing. And many investors don't find the tax benefits appealing.
Federal officials still stand behind the program, pointing out that it has no expiration date.
''Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds remain a cost-effective financing option for state, local and tribal governments to make capital investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy production and research and development,'' Sabrina Siddiqui, a Treasury Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail message. ''We are continuing to work with stakeholders, businesses and local officials on the ground to encourage usage of these bonds.''
Like the popular program Build America Bonds, the conservation bonds offered states and municipalities a chance to tap into federal money to finance projects. Under the program, the federal government covers up to 70 percent of the applicable tax credit rate as a direct payment to the issuer or as a tax credit to the investor. For eligible localities, it can effectively bring their interest cost down to about 0.5 to 1.5 percent, according to Elizabeth Bellis of the Energy Programs Consortium, a research and policy group that represents state energy officials.
Some local governments have been tapping their share, mostly to reduce energy consumption in public buildings. The City of Los Angeles issued $131 million in bonds in 2010 to expand a wind farm, and St. Louis used $10.7 million in 2011 to finance loans for energy efficiency improvements to homes. In Boulder County, Colo., the municipality used its entire allotment for energy improvements at the jail and other public buildings, as well as for a clean energy loan program.
For Will Toor, a Boulder County commissioner, part of the appeal was being able to make comprehensive energy-saving improvements all at once, rather than over several years. It worked so well, he said, that the county looked into taking over unused allotments from other counties. ''If we could get any more, we would very happily use it,'' he said.
But for the most part, state and local governments have stayed away. As of January, 33 states had not used any of their allocations, while a dozen more had used less than a third. Just six states had used more than half, led by Kansas, the only one to have spent it all.
Policy analysts said part of the problem was that there was not enough money to go around. Congress originally authorized $800 million for the program, but eventually increased that to $3.2 billion in 2009 as part of the stimulus act. Still, that's a relatively small sum for a national municipal bond program. By contrast, states and local governments sold $181 billion of Build America Bonds before the program expired in 2010.
Money for the conservation bonds was handed out to states based on population, which then divided it up among large cities and counties. That left many local governments with a sliver of the pie too thin to pursue projects.
State lawmakers in Hawaii, which received about $13 million, are trying to get around that limitation. They are working on a mechanism - a so-called clean energy bank - that will allow localities to pool their money and create larger, more economically efficient projects that could attract greater private investment.
Investment bankers also had trouble drumming up enough demand for the bonds. Investors generally prefer an interest payment rather than a tax credit, especially during a weak economic environment. Eventually, officials included an option for issuers to receive a cash payment from the Treasury Department, allowing them to pay out taxable interest to investors.
Municipalities have found the program difficult to navigate, as it wasn't always clear how clean energy projects could qualify. For example, localities could sell bonds for projects that reduced energy consumption in public buildings by 20 percent. But some officials were unsure how to calculate the savings, either for individual buildings or the overall group. Another category allowed governments to create ''green community'' projects, but the program offered little detail on what that meant.
The Energy Programs Consortium has been pressing federal officials to clarify the regulations. The group sent a letter to President Obama in January requesting that the Internal Revenue Service issue more guidelines, and in February a group of House Democrats sent another one as well. The Treasury Department is considering issuing interim guidelines, but the agency has not done so yet.
''Guidance from Treasury on a number of outstanding legal questions would help speed up the use of these funds and facilitate projects that have been delayed due to legal uncertainties,'' Ms. Bellis said. ''These projects have the potential to create thousands of local jobs, update public buildings, develop local green industry and significantly reduce fossil fuel emissions.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Will Toor, a Boulder County commissioner, on the roof of the county's justice center, where air handling equipment and a reflective insulated roof were installed, financed through the Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); COUNTIES (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSUMPTION (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



301 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Ad Watch

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
THE SCRIPT A male announcer says: ''An economic meltdown. Worst financial collapse since the Great Depression. 4.4 million jobs lost. All before this president took the oath. Some said our best days were behind us, but not him. He believed in us, fought for us. And today our auto industry is back, firing on all cylinders. Our greatest enemy brought to justice by our greatest heroes. Our troops are home from Iraq. Instead of losing jobs, we're creating them: over 4.2 million so far. We're not there yet. It's still too hard for too many. We're not there yet. It's still too hard for too many. But we're coming back -- because America's greatness comes from a strong middle class, because you don't quit. And neither does he. 
ON THE SCREEN The ad makes heavy use of old television clips that are intended to remind voters of the crisis President Obama confronted when he took office. Stories about huge job losses, a plummeting stock market and record home foreclosures are relayed by new anchors. The ad shifts when Mr. Obama is shown at his inauguration in 2009, raising his right hand and proclaiming ''So help me God.'' The visuals then become more positive. Workers are assembling cars in a factory. A young girl hugs her father, just home from war. Osama bin Laden's picture flashes on screen, but he goes unnamed as the announcer says the country's ''greatest enemy'' has been brought to justice.
ACCURACY The ad has none of the squishy factual assertions or questionable statistics that cause opponents to cry foul. If anything, Mr. Obama's opponents can claim error by omission. While the ad includes numbers that point to an economic recovery, it does not mention bleaker points like the decline in wages when adjusted for inflation or foreclosure rates that remain stubbornly high.
BOTTOM LINE In 2008, the Obama campaign demonstrated its skill in telling the candidate's story. Today it confronts a different kind of storytelling challenge. Since Mr. Obama is no longer an unknown quantity, his campaign has to figure out how to shape a compelling narrative arc for his first term. This ad tries to do that by doing three things: reminding voters about the difficulties he faced in 2009, laying out the progress the country has made, and telling them that his work is not done yet. JEREMY W. PETERS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



302 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Reflecting On Buffett, Business And Politics

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
OMAHA -- ''When Charlie and I took this job, we did not agree to put our citizenship in a blind trust.''
That's what Warren Buffett said here over the weekend at Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting when confronted by a shareholder question complaining that Mr. Buffett had become a public advocate for President Obama and the so-called Buffett Rule, which seeks to raise the tax rate on the wealthiest Americans - many of whom were in the audience.
Mr. Buffett's longtime business partner, Charlie Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire, quickly quipped that his partner's position on taxes ''has reduced my popularity around my country club.'' 
It also appeared to reduce Mr. Buffett's popularity among some shareholders. His comments came after the investor had submitted a question, saying: ''My 84-year-old father won't invest in Berkshire because of your stance on taxes.'' Mr. Buffett replied with a zinger: ''Sounds like your father should buy stock in Fox.''
All of this carping raises an important question: Should corporate executives like Mr. Buffett, who run public companies, advocate personal political positions? Or, should they keep their politics to themselves?
Throughout the weekend, known as Woodstock for Capitalists, there was a low hum among some investors about Mr. Buffett's outspokenness. ''It's the elephant in the room,'' Mario Gabelli, the value investor who has been attending these meetings for years, told a roomful of investors over dinner. Ultimately, he concluded, ''I'm O.K. with it,'' he said in an interview.
Another Berkshire shareholder, however, Dave J. Weber, e-mailed me: ''Mr. Buffett has dug himself into a hole that is dangerous territory for the figurehead of a public company to be treading in.''
Whether you agree with Mr. Buffett's political positions or not, isn't it refreshing to hear a chief executive advocate for political positions that you would rarely hear out of the mouths of most of his peers? (It must be said that much of the audience at the packed arena in Omaha cheered at Mr. Buffett's political comments.)
Of course, executives frequently lobby legislators to write laws that would favor their companies and investors. And many executives participate in fund-raisers for certain politicians, even working as ''bundlers'' to raise money for a candidate. James E. Rogers, the chief executive of Duke Energy, is on the steering committee of the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte this summer. But rarely do you hear chief executives loudly advocating political positions that might upset their own constituents, especially at a corporate event like an annual meeting.
Perhaps only Mr. Buffett, with his greatest-investor-of-all-time halo, can speak so candidly. Then again, some of his critics say it's easy for him to talk; they say the tax rate is irrelevant to him because all his wealth is tied up in Berkshire and he plans to give away virtually all of it anyway.
But a former chief executive of a major corporation who attended the meeting told me he wished he could have been as outspoken as Mr. Buffett. ''I would have been a lightning rod,'' he said, explaining why he often ''muzzled'' himself.
Indeed, Mr. Buffett used part of the meeting, in which he answered questions from shareholders and a panel of analysts and journalists (I was among them), to wax on about a variety of machinations in Washington, about which many of his fellow chiefs conceivably would disagree with him.
For example, he said, ''I wish Citizens United never happened,'' referring to the Supreme Court ruling that allowed the creation of ''super PACs many of which are being supported by other billionaire executives to advocate a political position.
''The idea that I should toss $10 million into some super PAC that will spend its time misleading people about its opponent,'' Mr. Buffett continued, ''I don't want to see democracy going in that direction.''
Mr. Munger, who traditionally has been more conservative than Mr. Buffett, threw his weight behind a value-added tax, which clearly could affect Berkshire's businesses. ''I think it's going to come eventually and probably should,'' Mr. Munger said nonchalantly. ''I think it's quite logical to tax consumption.''
Mr. Buffett doesn't just appear to be advocating for higher taxes on the wealthy, he also is not campaigning for lower corporate taxes, a hobby horse of most United States executives.
''It's not a lack of capital that's holding them back,'' he said about companies' biggest problems, ''nor is it tax rates.'' He said the nation's gross domestic product continued to grow in the 1950s and 1960s, when rates were far higher.
In the midst of what is becoming a very political season, Mr. Buffett made it clear that he never considered politics when studying an investment.
''I don't know the politics of Muhtar Kent, Ken Chenault, Ginni Rometty - I don't know her politics or religion,'' referring to the chiefs of Coca-Cola, American Express and I.B.M., among Berkshire's biggest holdings. ''It doesn't make any difference and I just want to know how he or she will run the business,'' he said. ''I don't think it makes sense to make investment decisions based on politics.''
Well said.
By the way, for the curious, Mr. Buffett appeared to be in fine form, despite his recent prostate cancer diagnosis. He had as much energy as I've ever seen. He said he felt fine and he joked that he might be killed by a ''jealous husband,'' but he did not plan to die from prostate cancer. Mr. Munger, always playing the straight man, added: ''I resent all this sympathy and attention Warren is getting.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren Buffett, right, and Charlie Munger at the Berkshire Hathaway meeting on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (50%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); DUK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JAMES E ROGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (89%) NEBRASKA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



303 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Two Financiers Take Control of Barneys, Ending Its Debt Struggles

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
8:56 p.m. Updated
Barneys New York, one of New York's bastions of high fashion, ended years of struggles with its hefty debt load by selling itself to the financiers Richard C. Perry and Ronald W. Burkle.
The retailer announced on Monday that Perry Capital, Mr. Perry's hedge fund firm and Barneys' biggest bondholder, has taken a majority stake in the company. Mr. Burkle's Yucaipa Companies will also own a stake. 
Months in the making, the deal will allow Barneys to conclude another shaky chapter in its 89-year history. It will also let Barneys escape having to file for bankruptcy, as it did in 1996.
Both Perry Capital and Yucaipa, a private equity firm, are gaining control by swapping their debt holdings for equity stakes, shedding about $540 million of the company's $590 million in long-term debt in the process. Istithmar, the Dubai-based private equity firm that bought the retailer in a 2007 leveraged buyout, will retain a minority stake.
''Financially, we've been moving in the right direction,'' Mark Lee, the company's chief executive, said in a telephone interview. ''What we haven't had is a balance sheet that made perfect sense.''
Founded as a discount men's wear shop in 1923 by Barney Pressman, who sold his wife's engagement ring to raise capital, Barneys grew to become a mecca for high-end retailing, with nearly 40 stores across the country today including lower-end Co-ops and outlets. It has passed through a number of owners, from the Pressmans to the Jones Apparel Group to Istithmar, which won it after a heated bidding war.
Yet it was that deal in 2007, valued at $942 million, that larded the company with a mountain of debt. Barneys then suffered during the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent recession, which sapped consumer appetite for $455 riding pants and $1,495 high heels. Istithmar poured additional capital into the company and hired advisers to help keep the investment afloat.
Barneys also faced a September due date for a $200 million credit line, giving an extra impetus to its restructuring efforts.
Still, Barneys new owners see a number of factors that could help the company. High-end retailing has bounced back: Barneys reported a 40 percent rise in its earnings last year, compared with 2010.
Barneys and its advisers, including the law firm Kirkland & Ellis and the investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners, had to negotiate with a small number of creditors, unlike many other companies that face huge debt loads. That group essentially amounted to Perry Capital, Yucaipa, and lenders led by Citigroup and Wells Fargo.
''We've been able to put a deal together that converted that debt into equity, and do it in a really healthy way,'' Mr. Perry of Perry Capital said in an interview. ''We decided that, rather than get a coupon, we'd rather get long-term equity of this company.''
The company and its new owners are exploring additional ways of reducing its remaining $50 million in debt.
Under Mr. Lee, who joined from Gucci in fall 2010, the company has shuffled some brands and renovated its Madison Avenue store. The new ownership will let it move more quickly with overhaul plans, he said; the ground floor is scheduled to be renovated by September, for instance. A new Web site will be introduced in a few weeks.
''Having a C.E.O. and a management team in place that's world class, that makes everything easier,'' Mr. Perry said.
Mr. Lee has also made several prominent hires and dismissals since taking the helm. Simon Doonan, the longtime creative director, was given a new role as ''creative ambassador at large,'' while Mr. Lee hired Amanda Brooks, Dennis Freedman and Daniella Vitale to fill various roles.
Ms. Brooks, Barneys' fashion director, recently left the company after a year on the job. Mr. Lee said that her departure was ''a personal decision of Amanda,'' and there was ''nothing more to it than that.''
Barneys is also gaining a new owner with more than a passing familiarity with fashion. Mr. Perry, the hedge fund manager, is known for his sharp style and shops at the company's flagship store, near his firm's offices in Midtown Manhattan. His wife, Lisa, runs a fashion line that was picked up by Barneys this year.
Asked if they had struck any parts of the deals at Fred's, the restaurant inside Barneys' Madison Avenue store, Mr. Perry already sounded like an owner.
''Now that the deal is done, everybody can go to Fred's and have a good lunch - '' Mr. Lee said, prompting Mr. Perry to interrupt him: ''And it offers dinner also, you should know.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A window at Barneys' flagship store in Manhattan. The retailer's earnings, like the overall luxury market, have rebounded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Mark Lee, the chief executive of Barneys New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE COPPOLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); BONDS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CLOTHING LABELS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); YUCAIPA COS LLC (72%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); JONES GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JNY (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (72%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



304 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Obama Hands Congress An Economic 'To Do' List

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With a polarized Congress already on the defensive, President Obama on Tuesday will outline a five-point ''to do'' list for lawmakers that packages job creation and mortgage relief ideas he has proposed before, administration officials say.
Mr. Obama will present the election-year list during a visit to a university science complex in Albany. The components of his challenge to Congress -- and to the Republican-led House in particular -- will be a feature of his appearances throughout the spring, aides said. 
For example, while in Reno, Nev., during a trip West later this week mostly to raise campaign money, Mr. Obama will push one of the proposals, to allow more families who are current on their mortgages to refinance at lower interest rates. Nevada, a swing state critical to his re-election, is among the places hit hardest by the housing bust.
The president's pitch on Tuesday, at the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering at the State University of New York, will underscore the obstructions he has faced from Republicans, and at a time when critics across the political spectrum are assailing a ''do-nothing Congress.''
But Mr. Obama is at some risk of seeming impotent in the face of his opposition, and House Republicans complain that their own ideas have languished in the Democratic-controlled Senate.
''I don't think Congress will act because the president says Congress must act,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said Monday, without describing the proposals Mr. Obama would push. ''I think the Congress will act because the people that sent them here are insisting that they act.''
Each lawmaker, he said, ''has to explain to his or her constituents what they did while they were in Washington these last two years. Did they just say no? Did they just block every effort put forward to help the economy grow and create jobs? Or did they actually try to work constructively to get something done?''
Several of the proposals Mr. Obama is demanding are business tax cuts. One would provide a 20 percent tax credit for companies that move overseas operations back to the United States; the revenue cost would be offset by eliminating deductions for companies' costs of relocating business abroad.
A proposed 10 percent income tax credit would go to small businesses that add employees or increase wages this, and Mr. Obama would extend through this year a measure allowing businesses to write off the full cost of investments in equipment. Also on the president's list is his call to extend a energy production tax credit and to expand a credit for advanced clean-energy manufacturing.
A final proposal would create a Veterans Jobs Corps to help place veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan as police officers and firefighters or in other community-service jobs.
To buttress his case for encouraging companies to relocate operations to this country, Mr. Obama will release new figures from his National Economic Council on what it sees as trends for ''in-sourcing'' -- so-called to distinguish it from American companies' outsourcing of jobs to low-wage places like Mexico and China in recent decades.
The report cites results of an study of executives released in April by the Boston Consulting Group showing that about a third of companies surveyed -- and half with revenues exceeding $10 billion -- were planning or considering moving manufacturing to the United States from China because costs there were either higher than anticipated or were expected to rise.
Mr. Obama's trip to Albany is a rare foray to a state that is not an election battleground; New York is considered safely Democratic. The location nonetheless reflects the president's penchant for drawing attention to the ways in which the government can promote technology, research and advanced manufacturing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); INCOME TAX (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); RENO, NV, USA (57%) NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



305 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1867 words

HEADLINE: For a Blunt Biden, an Uneasy Supporting Role

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As President Obama reviewed the comedy routine he was to deliver at the recent White House Correspondents' Association dinner, one joke struck him as too hot. It suggested he might dump Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. from the ticket.
''Four years ago, I chose Joe Biden as my running mate,'' Mr. Obama was to say, according to people familiar with early drafts of the planned remarks. ''Four years later, I'm almost positive I'm going with Joe again.'' He would then affect an exaggerated wink for the audience. But the president instructed his speechwriters to cut the line, figuring it would only inflame speculation from Beltway busybodies about his vice president's standing.
Mr. Biden is also a bit raw on this topic. It goes to an essential insecurity that haunts almost every No. 2 -- a job that the backslapping, shoulder-squeezing, muscle-car-loving Mr. Biden was wary of in the first place. 
Mr. Biden, 69, delights in speaking bluntly -- even as that can complicate things for the White House, as it did Sunday when Mr. Biden said he was ''absolutely comfortable'' with same-sex marriage (an endorsement that went beyond Mr. Obama's statements on the issue). He loves to remind people that he did not have a boss for 36 years in the Senate, where he prided himself on being ''my own man.'' He would tell aides and Senate colleagues that ''my manhood is not for sale'' if he felt pushed around. He told friends he feared that the vice presidency could be ''emasculating.''
As he embarks on what could be his last campaign, Mr. Biden is also concluding a sometimes uneasy term, one marked by triumphs and occasional tensions with a boss markedly different in style and temperament. Almost by definition, his job is amorphous.
''Being a vice president is kind of like being a first lady,'' Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said. ''You are there to support and serve the president. There is no job description.''
What job description there is often involves making the president look good. In recent weeks, Mr. Biden has given a series of heavily promoted policy speeches and assumed an attack-dog position in going after Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee. Aides to Mr. Biden love to point out all the quality time he and the president spend together -- including a golf outing last month -- to accentuate their working bond. (In his retelling of events, Mr. Biden always seems to be walking out of meetings with the president.)
Still, Mr. Biden's effort to subordinate his own voice (or manhood) to the broader enterprise has been a struggle. ''In the good old days when I was a senator, I was my own man,'' Mr. Biden told reporters last December on Air Force Two. ''But now whatever I say is attributed to the administration. I finally learned that.''
He received a refresher course on Sunday after his comments about same-sex marriage on NBC's ''Meet the Press.'' Administration officials spent the next few hours attempting to ''clarify'' Mr. Biden's remarks, setting off a new round of grumbling in the White House about Mr. Biden's message indiscipline. ''Not helpful'' is how one top Obama aide put the episode.
As with any union of opposites, the one between the rambling vice president and his cautious boss has required time, patience and adjustments.
Early on, for instance, it would drive Mr. Obama nuts to stand onstage waiting for Mr. Biden to introduce every dignitary in the room. So the president dispatched a top adviser, Valerie Jarrett, to relay his displeasure to Mr. Biden's office, according to top aides to both men. They initiated a fix: in future joint appearances, the president would remain offstage until the verbose vice president finished talking.
For his part, Mr. Biden was annoyed by what he regarded as a slight by Mr. Obama. When Mr. Biden curiously told House Democrats that even if the administration did everything right, ''there's still a 30 percent chance we're going to get it wrong,'' Mr. Obama responded to a reporter's question by saying he did not know what Mr. Biden was referring to. He tacked on a ''not surprisingly'' for good measure.
At their next weekly lunch meeting, Mr. Biden complained that the quip was disrespectful, according to White House aides. Mr. Obama apologized but expressed his own frustration about Mr. Biden's verbal misadventures -- called ''Joe bombs'' by some staff members during the 2008 campaign. Advisers describe the session as a tense but necessary clearing of the air that allowed them to move forward.
A Utility Player
Over time, White House officials say, both principals -- whose ages are separated by more years (19) than their West Wing offices are steps (17) -- have learned to adapt for the betterment of the alliance. Mr. Biden has worked to restrain his ego in the service of his support role -- ''a total utility player,'' as Mrs. Clinton described Mr. Biden, or ''the guy who does a bunch of things that don't show up on the stat sheet,'' as Mr. Obama once put it.
The president has come to appreciate Mr. Biden's loyalty, tested over a whiplashing term, and has deployed him as a designated contrarian in debates. ''There's, I think, an institutional barrier sometimes to truth-telling in front of the president,'' Mr. Obama said in a 2009 interview with The New York Times. ''Joe, in that sense, can help stir the pot.''
Mr. Obama has also relied on his deputy for his political skills and complementary strengths. Mr. Obama might have ''overestimated his own ability to engineer his own charm offensive, especially on the Hill,'' said a former White House aide who asked not to be named while characterizing the president's mind-set.
''The vice president is proof that to some degree the path to the new school goes through the old school,'' said Jared Bernstein, a former top economic adviser to Mr. Biden. He refers to Mr. Biden as ''an ambassador back to an earlier form of politics where relationship-building plays a key role.''
Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden have arrived at what people close to both describe as a friendship, one of the few the president has made in office. They attend the sporting events of Mr. Obama's daughter Sasha and Mr. Biden's granddaughter Maisy, who attend the Sidwell Friends School together. When Mr. Biden's son Beau suffered a stroke in 2010, Mr. Obama was one of the first to call.
But people close to them also allow that it is impossible to know what goes on in the privileged space between the country's two highest-ranking officers -- one of the most fraught and scrutinized relationships in any administration.
It ''carries a Shakespearean dependency element about it,'' said former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, who served under Jimmy Carter. Mr. Mondale also compared the partnership to ''a four-year nondivorcable marriage,'' though ''at least you get to live in different houses.''
And the power dynamic skews totally to the top of the ticket. ''A vice president thinks constantly about what the president must be thinking,'' said Jack Quinn, who was chief of staff to Vice President Al Gore. Now a lobbyist, Mr. Quinn notes a recurring line in the new HBO series ''Veep'' in which almost every time the frustrated No. 2 (played by Julia Louis-Dreyfus) walks into her office she asks, ''Did the president call?''
'Regular Joe Biden'
Mr. Biden is as easy a punch line as anyone is in Washington -- a perma-tanned and gaffe-prone goofy uncle type with a smile that appears practiced in front of a mirror. He makes for brilliant fake headlines in The Onion (''Shirtless Biden Washes Trans Am in White House Driveway'') and easy late-night comedy (when Michelle Obama told David Letterman how her dog, Bo, puts his paw on her leg and starts barking, the host interjected, ''Is that what Biden does?'').
Mr. Biden exhibits a level of self-deprecation that friends say is healthy for his job. Young audiences are oddly drawn to him the way the MTV generation supposedly swooned for Tony Bennett. ''I was kind of secretly hoping one of my kids would go out and make a million bucks,'' the vice president joked at Howard University last month. Why? ''So when they put me in a home, at least I'll have a window with a view.''
Publicly imagining oneself ''in a home'' is not something politicians typically do. But you never know what you're going to get with Regular Joe Biden. It is part of his charm and also his danger. ''He reminds me of a cool-cat Vegas headliner in '65,'' said Michael Murphy, a Republican media consultant. ''Onstage with drink in hand: 'To hell with the casino! We're going all night.' '' (Mr. Biden, in point of fact, does not drink.)
Still, after nearly four decades in Washington and two presidential runs, Mr. Biden has a strong sense of his own stature. After ending his presidential campaign in January 2008, he was asked at a Capitol Hill fund-raiser if he wanted to be considered for secretary of state. No, he said, he wanted to be offered the job -- not audition for it. It was a respect thing.
He often recoils at being ''handled'' and has spoken bitterly -- particularly during the 2008 campaign -- about being kept out of the loop on strategy discussions. Mr. Obama's top campaign aides were indeed hesitant to tell Mr. Biden too much, for fear of press leaks. Neither Mr. Biden nor members of his staff participate in the Sunday strategy briefings that White House and re-election officials hold with Mr. Obama. The White House did not make Mr. Biden available for an interview.
A Look at the Future
Some officials close to the president worry that Mr. Biden might become less restrained in sharing his personal positions -- as he did Sunday on same-sex marriage -- in the service of his own political ambitions. Mr. Biden has not ruled out making a third run for president in 2016. You are either on your way up or on your way down, he has told aides, and to deny interest in moving up makes you seem less politically potent.
Solicitous and emotive, Mr. Biden is unquestionably well liked within the administration. ''The nicest person in the cabinet,'' Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said.
He has displayed devotion to Mr. Obama, White House aides say, which has included impassioned defenses of the president in tense settings. In an appearance before House Democrats by Mr. Biden shortly after the party lost its majority in November 2010, Anthony D. Weiner of New York, the then-congressman (and not-yet-laughingstock for his racy tweets), charged that Mr. Obama was acting less like a leader and more like a negotiator -- and a weak one.
''There is no goddamned way I'm going to stand here and talk about the president like that,'' Mr. Biden boomed, according to White House and Congressional officials who were present.
''I think what's happened over three years is the president has come to appreciate the vice president's loyalty and idiosyncrasies,'' said Ronald A. Klain, a former chief of staff to Mr. Biden who held the same position for Mr. Gore. Both have become more mindful of the relationship and have worked on it. It also helps, Mr. Klain said, that they each have their own friends, lives and interests.
''They haven't tried to turn this into some sort of buddy movie,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and President Obama at a rally in Cleveland in October 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (51%); GAYS & LESBIANS (51%); MARRIAGE (51%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



306 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: 2 Bills and Comments By Officials Stir Debate Over Same-Sex Unions

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Dan Frosch contributed reporting from Denver, and Campbell Robertson from New Orleans.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A day after his vice president's expansive comments all but endorsing same-sex marriage, President Obama faced renewed pressure on Monday to complete his ''evolving'' on the issue and to take a clear stand despite the unpredictable consequences for his re-election bid.
The push on the issue extended to other administration officials even as White House aides insisted that the remarks of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on a Sunday television talk show were no different from what Mr. Obama has said in the past.
Mr. Obama's education secretary, Arne Duncan, who appeared Monday on a morning television show, MSNBC's ''Morning Joe,'' to promote the administration effort to get Congress to hold down interest rates on federal loans to college students, was asked whether he personally supported same-sex marriage. ''Yes, I do,'' Mr. Duncan said. 
In a statement applauding Mr. Duncan, the president of the Human Rights Campaign, Joe Solmonese, said, ''There's no doubt in my mind that the president shares these values, and that's why it's time for him to speak out in favor of marriage equality as well.''
The political considerations for the White House and the Obama re-election campaign are complicated, and advisers are on both sides of the issue. But Mr. Obama's senior strategists like David Axelrod and David Plouffe, confronting the prospect of a close election, are loath to raise a subject that could cost votes in swing states like Virginia, North Carolina and Colorado, say Democrats familiar with their thinking.
Yet Mr. Obama risks alienating gay Americans who have been among his strongest supporters and biggest donors, and same-sex marriage is strongly supported among many of the young and college-educated voters whom the campaign courts. But it is opposed by socially conservative blacks, particularly politically influential ministers, whose strong turnout Mr. Obama needs.
At the same time, some Democrats say that Mr. Obama, by continuing to straddle an issue that many supporters and gay activists believe he privately favors, risks looking politically calculating, even cynical.
In the wake of Mr. Biden's remarks, and then Mr. Duncan's, Mr. Obama's advisers adamantly rebutted suggestions from some reporters and bloggers that those comments were part of a strategy to signal the administration's support for same-sex marriage without Mr. Obama having to declare it. Advisers to both the president and vice president said Mr. Biden was speaking for himself, and unscripted.
The heightened focus on gay rights issues in Washington came as voters in North Carolina prepared to vote on Tuesday on a proposed amendment to the state's Constitution to ban same-sex marriage, and as Colorado advocates of civil unions sought to push a measure recognizing such unions through the State Legislature before a Wednesday deadline. Both states figure prominently in Mr. Obama's re-election calculation.
The flare of attention to the issue in the wake of Mr. Biden's remarks -- on NBC-TV's ''Meet the Press,'' he said he was ''absolutely comfortable'' with same-sex marriages and heartened by their growing acceptance around the country -- was not the first time that events have forced the White House to explain why Mr. Obama does not take a clear position. But the passage of time and the approach of the election plainly are making it more difficult, as a grilling Monday of Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, showed.
''What the vice president said yesterday was to make the same point that the president has made previously, that committed and loving same-sex couples deserve the same rights and protections enjoyed by all Americans, and that we oppose any effort to roll back those rights,'' Mr. Carney said.
''I think the president is the right person to describe his own personal views,'' Mr. Carney added. ''He, as you know, said that his views on this were evolving, and I don't have an update for you on that.''
Mr. Axelrod, in a conference call with reporters from the Chicago campaign headquarters, turned the issue around to focus on Mr. Obama's likely Republican rival, Mitt Romney.
Mr. Axelrod said ''there couldn't be a starker contrast'' between Mr. Obama, who repealed the ''don't ask, don't tell'' law for gay, lesbian and bisexual members of the military services and quit enforcing a federal law against same-sex marriages, calling it unconstitutional, and Mr. Romney, who has supported efforts to repeal state laws for same-sex unions and to establish a federal constitutional amendment against them.
In North Carolina, polls indicated that the proposed state amendment banning same-sex marriage would be approved on Tuesday. While North Carolina has a law against same-sex marriage, Republican lawmakers said they worried that without an amendment, the law was in danger of being struck down by the courts.
The issue divides nearly all demographic groups, with ministers, lawyers, business executives, as well as black and white voters falling on both sides of the debate. With age one of the most predictable indicators of a voter's stance, supporters of a ban are rallying older voters who tend to oppose same-sex marriage while opponents are mobilizing younger people.
Christopher Cooper, a political science professor at Western Carolina University, said of the issue, ''I think the less it's talked about in a state like North Carolina, the better it is for Obama.''
In contrast, in Colorado supporters of a civil unions bill expressed hope on Monday that it would pass before the Legislature adjourns on Wednesday, given the support of Republican lawmakers who broke party ranks to join Democratic proponents. Supporters say they have the votes to send the legislation to Gov. John W. Hickenlooper, a Democrat, who has said he would sign it.
''If you asked me at the beginning of the session whether I thought we'd be this far, I'd probably say no,'' said Representative Mark Ferrandino, Democrat of Denver, one of four openly gay state legislators here and sponsor of the bill. ''I'm really excited about where we are. We're not at the end yet, but we're much closer than we've ever been.''
The chance remained that the bill would not reach the final committee in time, or that Republican leaders would not bring the bill to the House floor -- effectively killing it. The House speaker, Frank McNulty, a Republican, stopped short of saying the measure would not come to the House floor, but added, ''For me, this bill lays the foundation to a challenge against marriage and that is not a place I am willing to go.''
But in a sign of changing public attitudes reflected elsewhere, a new conservative group called Coloradans for Freedom emerged to support civil union legislation, and at the state Republican convention last month, nearly half the delegates backed a resolution supporting civil unions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators gathered last week outside the Colorado Statehouse to show their support of a civil unions bill, which has been gaining support as it makes its way through House committees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); COHABITATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (79%); ARNE DUNCAN (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (78%) COLORADO, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



307 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Backs Romney in Race

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON

 BODY:
Rick Santorum told his supporters in an e-mail Monday night that he was endorsing Mitt Romney as the Republican presidential candidate and that ''all hands on deck'' would be needed to defeat President Obama in the fall. 
Mr. Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania who dropped his bid for the Republican presidential nomination last month after making a strong showing in multiple states, said he met privately with Mr. Romney in Pittsburgh last Friday.
During that hour-long meeting, Mr. Santorum said that he felt a responsibility to assess Mr. Romney's commitment to issues that are important to social conservatives and tea party supporters, among others. He said he also wanted a commitment from Mr. Romney, assuring him that there would be ''appropriate representation'' of conservatives in a Romney administration.
He said they also discussed the role of the family in the country's economic success. ''I was impressed with the Governor's deep understanding of this connection and his commitment to economic policies that preserve and strengthen families,'' Mr. Santorum said.
Mr. Santorum noted that he had repeatedly raised concerns during the Republican primary fight over whether Mr. Romney would take on Mr. Obama's health care policy. However, in the e-mail, he told his supporters that he had no doubt that Mr. Romney would work with a Republican Congress to repeal it and replace it.
''Above all else, we both agree that President Obama must be defeated,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''The task will not be easy. It will require all hands on deck if our nominee is to be victorious. Governor Romney will be that nominee and he has my endorsement and support to win this the most critical election of our lifetime.''
He closed by saying that while his conversation with Mr. Romney was productive, he intended to keep the lines of ''communication open with him and his campaign.''
Despite Mr. Santorum's praise for Mr. Romney in his endorsement, the Democratic National Committee was trying to make sure that people did not forget all the unkind things he said about his fellow Republican during the campaign that were captured on video.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney campaigning Monday in Euclid, Ohio, where a supporter suggested President Obama was guilty of treason. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); FAMILY (73%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



308 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Kidnapped American Makes Appeal to Obama in Qaeda Video

BYLINE: By DECLAN WALSH

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- An American aid expert being held hostage by Al Qaeda in Pakistan was shown making an emotional appeal to President Obama to negotiate for his release in a video released on Monday in what analysts described as a jihadist counter against the wave of publicity that marked the first anniversary of the death of Osama bin Laden.
The hostage, Warren Weinstein, a 70-year-old development consultant who was kidnapped in the eastern city of Lahore in August, appeared in the video released on the Internet. Wearing traditional Pakistani clothes, he appealed to Mr. Obama to bow to his captors' demands. 
Mr. Weinstein, sitting cross-legged behind a table with books and food, said in a monotone voice: ''My life is in your hands, Mr. President. If you accept the demands, I live. If you don't accept the demands, then I die.''
It was the first direct confirmation that Al Qaeda was holding Mr. Weinstein, the country director for J. E. Austin Associates, a consultancy based in Arlington, Va., that contracts for the United States Agency for International Development.
Armed men snatched him from a Lahore neighborhood in August; three months later the leader of Al Qaeda, Ayman al-Zawahri, said Mr. Weinstein could be released if the Obama administration stopped all airstrikes in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia and Yemen, and released several men convicted in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.
The video follows extensive news media attention to the anniversary of the American Special Operations raid on May 2, 2011, that killed Bin Laden and dealt a serious blow to his organization, which has also been pounded by C.I.A. drone strikes in the tribal belt. Private papers seized from the compound and released last week suggested that Bin Laden had been plotting attacks until shortly before his death.
''This video appears to have been timed to counter all the negative things being said about Al Qaeda -- that the Americans have broken its back, that the organization is dysfunctional,'' said Riffat Hussain of the peace and conflict studies department at the National Defense University in Islamabad. ''They want to send a message that Al Qaeda is still in business.''
But the lack of Qaeda violence on the May 2 anniversary has been taken by some analysts as further proof of waning strength -- as has the recent scarcity of the once-plentiful videos issued by Mr. Zawahri.
''In terms of production, they're not what they used to be,'' said Kamran Bokhari, an analyst with Stratfor, a private intelligence company.
In that sense, Mr. Weinstein's carefully stage-managed video appeal for help was a notable anomaly. In the 2-minute, 40-second video, which appeared first on jihadist Web sites on Sunday before surfacing on YouTube, Mr. Weinstein looked to be in reasonably good health.
He included a message to his wife, Elaine, saying that he was receiving the medicine he needed.
Pakistani security officials say he is probably being held in or near North Waziristan, the most dangerous part of the tribal belt that runs along the Afghan border.
Kidnapping has become big business for the Taliban and Al Qaeda on both sides of the Pakistan-Afghanistan border.
Next month is the third anniversary of the disappearance of Bowe Bergdahl, a 26-year-old American soldier captured by insurgents near an American military base in southern Afghanistan in June 2009. He later appeared in a hostage video wearing traditional clothes and with a shaven head.
In Pakistan, foreign aid workers and wealthy Pakistanis have been targeted. Hostages currently in captivity include Shahbaz Taseer, son of the assassinated Punjab governor, Salman Taseer, and two Europeans working for a German aid agency.
The humanitarian community is still reeling from the discovery last week of the body of Khalil Dale, a Red Cross worker kidnapped from the western city of Quetta who was found beheaded. There is some confusion about the identity of Mr. Dale's captors. Initial police reports blaming the Pakistani Taliban have since been retracted, and a Red Cross spokeswoman in Islamabad said the matter was still under investigation.
Security experts say that high-profile hostages are typically abducted from major Pakistani cities by criminal or low-level jihadi gangs, then transferred to Waziristan, where groups like the Pakistani Taliban or Al Qaeda take over.
Dr. Hussain, the defense academic, warned that while the evidence suggested that Al Qaeda was weakening, the kidnapping business also reflected its growing strength in allying with Pakistani jihadist groups. ''One should not underestimate their potential to do something in the future,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Warren Weinstein, who was kidnapped in August in Pakistan, as he appeared in a video released on Monday, left, and in a 2009 photograph. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY INTELCENTER, VIA REUTERS MIKE REDWOOD, VIA A.P.
 MIKE REDWOOD, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



309 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Change in Paris May Better Fit U.S. Economic Positions

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the victory of the Socialist candidate, Francois Hollande, in the French presidential election, the White House has lost one of its closest allies on the Continent, but perhaps gained one with economic policy beliefs more closely aligned with its own.
Mr. Hollande is virtually unknown in Washington, and his policy positions on both domestic and international affairs remain only lightly sketched out. That is in stark contrast to the departing president, Nicolas Sarkozy, whose frequent discussions with and ardent defense of the White House earned him the nickname ''Sarko the American'' back home. 
But in the past few months, Mr. Sarkozy has parted from the White House in his support of the German-led austerity project in the debt-soaked euro zone, a project that the White House objects to on the grounds that cutting budgets too soon will lead to sluggish growth and high unemployment across Europe without satisfying the demands of skittish bond investors.
Mr. Hollande, in contrast, ran on a promise of rebalancing Europe away from austerity and toward growth, and his narrow victory is seen in Washington as a public rejection of governments imposing strict cuts on battered economies.
''Austerity need not be Europe's fate,'' Mr. Hollande said shortly after his victory. To that end, he has said he plans to renegotiate the fiscal pact Europe struck this winter to allow for more budgetary breathing room for countries that can still borrow money to support themselves at reasonable rates on the debt markets. He also supports measures to support growth by, for instance, bolstering infrastructure spending.
The Obama administration had pushed for such pro-growth policy changes even as Mr. Sarkozy joined Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany in calling for deep spending cuts.
''If every time economic growth disappoints, governments are forced to cut spending or raise taxes immediately to make up for the impact of weaker growth on deficits, this would risk a self-reinforcing negative spiral of growth-killing austerity,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner told a Congressional committee in March, comments echoed since then in his statements at many international forums.
''The administration hopes, in broad terms, that this election will change the conversation,'' said Edwin M. Truman, a senior fellow at the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''In principle, you'd be saying, 'Don't tighten your belt!' to the countries with the scope to do so,'' Mr. Truman said.
Mr. Hollande seems ''naturally more palatable to the administration,'' said Justin Vaisse, the director of research for the Center on the United States and Europe at the Brookings Institution. The administration seems to reason that ''Europe probably has a better chance of avoiding a breakup or another renewed sovereign debt crisis by focusing on growth, rather than just sticking to austerity,'' he said.
A senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid disturbing diplomatic relations, said that the Obama administration looked forward to working with Mr. Hollande, and that it did not believe that making changes to the fiscal compact would spook markets or threaten the validity of the overall agreement, which helped bring down sovereign debt yields this winter.
Mr. Truman noted that Mr. Hollande would be ''adding some supportive material to make the compact more growth-friendly,'' rather than starting from scratch.
The official said that the White House did not know the details of how the French president-elect hoped to change the compact, but that many options were on the table, including delaying some austerity measures, bolstering the Continent's methods for recapitalizing its banks and evening out imbalances between countries with big deficits and those with surpluses.
Observers said that though Mr. Hollande was likely to hew closer to the Obama administration on economic issues, he would almost certainly move further away from it on foreign and military policy.
Mr. Sarkozy had led a significant rapprochement between the French and American governments on foreign affairs, joining Washington in promoting harsh new penalties for Iran and playing a leading role in gathering an international coalition to topple the Libyan dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, among other actions.
In a briefing Monday, a State Department spokesman, Mark C. Toner, acknowledged the administration's closeness to Mr. Sarkozy, and said he hoped that the bilateral relationship would deepen with Mr. Hollande.
''We're going to have an opportunity to sit down at the highest levels, the president with President-elect Hollande, to discuss all these issues,'' he said. ''I'm not going to prejudge in any way how those discussions might go.''
Mr. Hollande has a reputation as conciliatory and consensus-driven, and Obama administration officials stressed that they expected a close ally in his government.
In an interview with the Web magazine Slate.fr, Mr. Hollande -- who noted that he speaks English -- praised the Obama administration's foreign policy and said that the countries had a ''convergence'' on economic issues. In the past, he has expressed skepticism about some United States positions on military issues.
President Obama called Mr. Hollande after his victory and invited him to meet with him in Washington in advance of international meetings there and in Chicago this month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EURO CRISIS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); BONDS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (92%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (53%); PETE PETERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



310 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Exit Nicolas Sarkozy

 BODY:
There are several reasons Nicolas Sarkozy, the president of France, will soon be vacating the Elysee Palace. His colorful lifestyle cost him votes on the right, and his pandering to the immigrant bashers cost him votes on the left. But the overwhelming reason for his loss in Sunday's election was voters' resentment at the painful, counterproductive austerity policies crafted by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and warmly endorsed by Mr. Sarkozy as the antidote to Europe's financial crises. 
Francois Hollande, the unpreposessing Socialist candidate who won a narrow victory, instead called for channeling the government's spending and taxing powers toward recovery and economic growth.
The French were not alone in rejecting politicians who favor sharp reductions in government spending as the one-size-fits-all answer to the region's problems. In Greece's parliamentary elections Sunday, voters resoundingly defeated candidates from the two major political parties that earlier this year had agreed to a rescue package -- dictated largely by Germany -- that required harsh, growth-killing spending cuts in exchange for $171 billion in emergency loans.
And there was a dark side to the election that cannot be ignored. For the first time, the far-right group Golden Dawn, whose xenophobic members perform Nazi salutes, won enough votes to enter Parliament with 21 seats.
There is still no sign that Ms. Merkel is ready to acknowledge that relentless austerity is not working. On Monday, she welcomed Mr. Hollande's election, saying that ''growth'' is necessary to ''progress,'' but she insisted that the austerity pact she designed with Mr. Sarkozy's help was ''not negotiable.''
Mr. Hollande has already made clear that he intends to restructure France's economic policies, attacking the country's deficit by raising taxes on the rich and big corporations while using government programs to stimulate growth and create more jobs. In his victory address, he also vowed to seek a new pact and a ''new direction'' for Europe. He obviously grasps a central truth that seems to have eluded German politicians: that while Greece and others must reform their labor markets and wrestle their budgets under control, they cannot repay their debts unless they are also allowed to grow.
The United States economy is doing better than most of Europe. But the austerity debate continues here, too. So is there a warning for House Republicans who have endorsed Representative Paul Ryan's draconian budget? And for Mitt Romney, their party's presumptive presidential nominee? Controlling deficits is important, but too much austerity too soon will stall a recovery, or worse, and wreak havoc on lives. Europe's grim growth numbers prove that. And voters in Europe have figured it out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



311 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
KIDNAPPED AMERICAN
MAKES APPEAL TO OBAMA
Warren Weinstein, a 70-year-old development consultant being held hostage by Al Qaeda in Pakistan, was shown making an emotional appeal to President Obama to negotiate for his release in a video on the Internet. PAGE A4
CONSTRICTED FUTURE IN IRAN 
Iran's huge group of postrevolution young adults -- 70 percent of the country's population is under 35 -- calls itself the ''burned generation.'' Their ambitions have been boxed in by the political decisions of Iran's leaders and the foreign pressures that followed. PAGE A4
National
LUGAR KEEPS UP FIGHT
ON THE EVE OF VOTING
Senator Richard G. Lugar has not backed down in the face of a Republican primary challenge in Indiana, the first time he has faced a primary opponent since he first won election in 1976. PAGE A15
HOUSE BILL OFFERS AID CUTS
The House will take up legislation to slice $261 billion from social programs to stave off more than $50 billion in military spending cuts, amounting to a Republican bet that voters will reward the party for its tough-love priorities. PAGE A19
New York
AFTER SPENDING FREELY,
A FIGHT OVER FRUGALITY
Montclair, N.J., went into debt to pay for things like a $45 million energy-efficient school, and now the liberal community finds itself the unlikely site of a tax revolt. The mayoral candidate Karen Turner has questioned the spending of the township, but critics say cuts will change what makes Montclair special. PAGE A22
Business
USED FULL-SIZE S.U.V.'S
ARE MAKING A COMEBACK
In spite of high gas prices and low fuel economy ratings, big S.U.V.'s are no longer the pariahs of the used-car lot. Dealers and analysts say demand for the vehicles is steady and inventories are low, causing their values to stabilize or even increase. PAGE B1
Sports
COMMISSIONER OF BIG EAST
ANNOUNCES RESIGNATION
The Big East has parted ways with John Marinatto, who announced that he was stepping down as the league's commissioner. Marinatto's departure comes after fewer than three seasons, which were defined by the departures of Pittsburgh, Syracuse, West Virginia and Texas Christian, which bailed to the Big 12 before playing a game. PAGE B10
Arts
CBGB IS DEAD.
LONG LIVE CBGB.
After years of legal disputes, a new group of owners wants to revive the famous punk-rock club CBGB, which closed in 2006. The owners have plans to host a summer music festival and open a new downtown location. PAGE C1
ULYSSES GOES TO COLLEGE
The Yale Baroque Opera Project, which focuses on staged productions of operas featuring casts of undergraduates, presented Monteverdi's ''Ritorno d'Ulisse'' at the University Theater at Yale. Review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C3
Science Times
TRACKING A SUSPECT
IN THE DEATH OF LENIN
Vladimir Ilyich Lenin died suddenly at age 53 after suffering a major stroke, but it has been unclear what factors contributed to his early death. Two experts have examined Lenin's medical history to determine whether there was something more to his death than history has acknowledged. PAGE D5
ECOSYSTEMS THRIVE UP HIGH
The tabletop mountains near the Amazon rain forest can be isolated, but they support a wide diversity of species that are found nowhere else on the planet. PAGE D3
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A23
Joe Nocera PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (87%); OPERA (83%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); MAYORS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); FESTIVALS (72%); USED CAR DEALERS (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); RESIGNATIONS (61%); POP & ROCK (60%); MUSIC (60%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (60%); INTERNET VIDEO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DICK LUGAR (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



312 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Markets Change Little After Political Shake-Up in Europe

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; David Jolly and Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Election results in Europe injected new uncertainty into financial markets on Monday, but stocks on Wall Street generally rode out the political developments with little change.
Weekend voting in Greece and France followed a disappointing jobs report on Friday in the United States and the worst weekly declines on Wall Street this year.
On Monday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.48 point, or 0.04 percent, to 1,369.58. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 29.74 points, or 0.23 percent, to 13,008.53, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 1.42 points, or 0.05 percent, at 2,957.76. 
Bank stocks rose the most, climbing 0.6 percent on the S.& P. 500. Bank of America rose 2.8 percent to close at $7.96. The American International Group held back the sector with a 3 percent decline at $31.84.
But markets in Europe, which were little changed during the day, closed more than 1 percent higher Monday after Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said she would welcome the new Socialist president of France ''with open arms.''
In France, the Socialist Francois Hollande, who has been critical of the austerity-only mind-set championed by Germany, defeated President Nicolas Sarkozy on Sunday.
David Joy, chief market strategist with Ameriprise Financial, said the vote would reposition the debate with Germany over what direction to navigate between austerity and growth.
''On balance, markets will take this in stride,'' Mr. Joy said. ''I do, however, think it increases the level of uncertainty in terms of what type of accommodation will be reached between France and Germany in approaching the fiscal path.''
Voters in Greece used the ballot box to react to the crushing austerity measures demanded by Europe and the International Monetary Fund as the price for a series of economic bailouts. The entry into Parliament of parties on the far left and far right renewed fears that Greece would eventually leave the euro. In Greece, the benchmark A.S.E. stock index slid 6.7 percent.
Douglas Cote, chief market strategist for ING Investment Management, said the election results in France were within expectations.
''From a market perspective, it is replacing one Socialist with another Socialist,'' he said. ''The bigger thing is Greece. They have to meet their targets on austerity, or they are not going to get their I.M.F. loans that have already been agreed on.''
He was referring to the agreement made with the monetary fund and other creditors to address Greece's sovereign debt crisis.
The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed 1.55 percent higher, while the CAC 40 in Paris was up 1.65 percent. The DAX in Frankfurt was down during the day but closed with a 0.1 percent gain. London markets were closed for a holiday.
The muted response in the United States followed the biggest weekly decline this year for the S.& P. 500, which was weighed down by the jobs report on Friday.
The French result ''was much anticipated; there was no surprise,'' Valerie Cazaban, a fund manager at Stratege Finance, said. The bigger question, she said, was the June parliamentary elections, which will determine whether Mr. Hollande wins the majority he needs to carry out his program.
The market reaction has been ''very calm,'' she said, noting that French bond yields were only slightly higher.
Ms. Cazaban said Greece was more of a concern than France, but that there, too, the message was that ''people don't want just austerity -- they want to balance it with growth, which is hard but not impossible.''
''I think Germany is isolated for the moment,'' she said. ''The solution may be found in the next few weeks as Germany and the European Central Bank respond'' to the changed circumstances.
Asian markets declined. In Tokyo, the Japanese benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average fell 2.8 percent. In Sydney, the S.& P./ASX 200 index fell 2.2 percent. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong dropped 2.6 percent. Asian shares were also catching up to the news that the United States economy created only 115,000 jobs in April, fewer than analysts had expected and far fewer than needed to clear the backlog of jobless Americans.
In the currency market, the dollar was mixed against its peers. The euro fell to $1.3062 from $1.3083 late Friday in New York, having dropped as low as $1.2931 for the first time since late January.
The European elections affirmed a ''political backlash against fiscal austerity, with Germany and France potentially on a collision course,'' analysts at DBS in Singapore summarized in a research note Monday. The French and Greek elections, they added, ''sent a common message that voters no longer have the stomach for tough austerity measures.''
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 1/32, to 101 4/32, and the yield slipped to 1.87 percent from 1.88 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bank stocks rose the most on Monday, amid scant movement on the New York Stock Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (67%); EURO (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (62%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (67%); ING GROEP NV (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); AMP (NYSE) (67%); INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (70%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



313 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Power Meeting: Daunting Picture for Obama, Based on a 2009 Photo

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
In his first group photo with world leaders, at the G20 summit in London in April 2009, President Obama was all smiles. But as he faces re-election in six months, a quick glance back at the photograph might not be reassuring.
Most of the people who were leading the world's major economies when the photo was snapped are no longer in office, primarily the political victims of the global economic recession and voter anger that has been directed at incumbents in countries around the world. 
Gone from the photo are Gordon Brown of Britain, Kevin Rudd of Australia, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain, Taro Aso of Japan and Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. Nicolas Sarkozy, who stood a few feet from Mr. Obama in the photo, was defeated in the French presidential election on Sunday.
Only two people still leading major Western powers - Angela Merkel of Germany and Stephen Harper of Canada - were at the London meeting. (Mr. Harper missed the photo, however.)
The question for Mr. Obama as his campaign battles Mitt Romney is whether the forces that swept so many of his contemporaries out of office are also building in the United States - and if so, what he can do about it.
After Mr. Sarkozy's defeat over the weekend, many political observers in the United States tried to find a lesson in it for Mr. Obama. Some have suggested that voters across Europe and elsewhere are rejecting tough austerity measures.
That appears to have been the message in France, where voters embraced Francois Hollande's criticism of Mr. Sarkozy's policies. And in Greece, where George A. Papandreou, the prime minister, stepped down late last year to clear the way for a debt deal with other European nations, voters again punished leaders who advocated austerity.
If American voters follow suit, that could favor Mr. Obama in his face-off with Mr. Romney, who is calling for tougher cuts to address the nation's debt and deficit. Mr. Obama, like Mr. Hollande, has been arguing for a mix of cuts and stimulus to deal with the global economic crisis.
But the message from voters across the globe may be more about registering their anger with incumbents - whatever their policies - than a rejection of specific policies in the wake of the economic recession.
In Australia, Mr. Rudd lost an internal power struggle amid declining public support for his stimulus policies and climate change legislation similar to a cap-and-trade program favored by some Democrats in the United States. He stepped down as prime minister in June 2010.
In Italy, Mr. Berlusconi resigned as prime minister late last year after growing concern about his country's fiscal problems during the European debt crisis. (He also faced inquiries into sex scandals that had plagued him for years.)
British voters rejected Mr. Brown as prime minister in 2010, after he presided over the country during the global financial collapse. They turned to the more conservative David Cameron to lead the country into a recovery - an outcome that Mr. Romney would like to repeat in the United States.
Campaign aides for Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney declined to comment on they lessons they have drawn from Mr. Sarkozy's defeat. At the White House on Monday, Jay Carney, the president's spokesman, noted that ''each country has its own circumstances'' and emphasized Mr. Obama's efforts to balance the interests at stake in the economic recovery.
''A balanced approach towards fiscal consolidation and growth is what he believes is appropriate,'' Mr. Carney said. ''That's the approach he's taken here.''
Will that be enough to keep Mr. Obama from the same fate that has befallen so many of his fellow leaders?
Mr. Romney's campaign is focused on convincing American voters that the president's approach to the economic recession was misguided and insufficient.
''Americans are disappointed in President Obama's liberal policies that haven't made their lives any better,'' Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney, said in an e-mail Monday morning. ''President Obama just hasn't lived up to his promises.''
Mr. Obama's political advisers are determined to defend his record and to describe Mr. Romney's proposals as nothing more than a return to the era of George W. Bush.
''The president has faced a combination of crises that few others have had to deal with, all at the same time, starting on Day 1,'' Jim Messina, the president's campaign manager, said on a conference call Monday morning. ''He has made bold and brave decisions to help get his economy back on its feet.''
''We're proud of that record,'' Mr. Messina said.
The outcome of that fundamental debate will likely determine whether Mr. Obama joins Mr. Sarkozy and the other world leaders in an early, post-recession retirement that none of them hoped to take quite so soon.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC FEFERBERG/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); STEPHEN HARPER (67%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); KEVIN RUDD (57%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (54%); GORDON BROWN (54%); TARO ASO (54%); ANGELA MERKEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



314 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Amazon Is Taking a Leap Into the High End of the Fashion Pool

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Amazon is so serious about its next big thing that it hired three women to do nothing but try on size 8 shoes for its Web reviews. Full time.
The online retailer is shooting 3,000 fashion images a day in a photo studio using patent-pending technology.
And it is happily losing hundreds of millions of dollars a year on free shipping -- and, on apparel, even free returns -- to keep its shoppers coming back.
Having wounded the publishing industry, slashed pricing in electronics and made the toy industry quiver, Amazon is taking on the high-end clothing business in its typical way: go big and spare no expense. 
''It's Day 1 in the category,'' Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, said in a recent interview. Though characteristically tight-lipped on bottom-line details, Mr. Bezos said the company was making a ''significant'' investment in fashion to convince top brands that it wanted to work with them, not against them.
The traditional retail world -- and many major brands that want no part of Amazon -- are gearing up to fight for their lives.
''It has the latitude to set prices and charge whatever it wants,'' Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst for Forrester Research, said of Amazon. ''That is a huge threat for brands.''
Amazon has sold clothing for years. But recently it has focused on signing on hundreds of contemporary and high-end brands, including Michael Kors, Vivienne Westwood, Catherine Malandrino, Jack Spade and Tracy Reese, and it continues to prowl for more. On Monday, some of Amazon's muscle was on display as the company sponsored, and live-streamed, the Costume Institute Benefit at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the accompanying exhibit. Mr. Bezos, the event's honorary chairman, said that he was advised by Anna Wintour, Vogue's editor, to wear a pocket square with his Tom Ford tuxedo (which is not available on Amazon). He did so.
Amazon's decision to go after high fashion is about plain economics. Because Amazon's costs are about the same whether it is shipping a $10 book or a $1,000 skirt, ''gross profit dollars per unit will be much higher on a fashion item,'' Mr. Bezos said, and it already makes money on fashion. While its MyHabit site, started last year, uses a flash-sale model to compete with Gilt Groupe, Mr. Bezos says the company's new effort is not about selling clothes at deep discounts but at prices that ensure that ''the designer brands are happy.''
Amazon has not just size on its side but money. The company has about $5.7 billion in cash and marketable securities, and Mr. Bezos has long taken a stance that investing in the business is the best place to use it. The company can afford to do things that some competitors cannot, like hire a bevy of stylists for the Web site models or investigate replacing the plain brown shipping box with a fancier package for clothes.
Until now, fashion has been one of the few categories that Amazon has tried to dominate without success. In addition to its own site, Amazon bought the shoe site Zappos.com for more than $1 billion in 2009, started the shoe site Endless.com and MyHabit, and bought the boutique Shopbop in 2006.
But many brands stayed away because they said Amazon's site often looked too commoditized. ''It's not a place where you look at it and are like, 'Oh, my clothes look and feel really good,' '' said Andy Dunn, founder of the men's fashion brand Bonobos, which does not sell through Amazon.
Amazon hopes to fix that problem by going luxe. Mr. Bezos said Amazon.com's initial forays into the high end had helped raise apparel sales by triple digits.
Amazon's considerable computing capability, for example, has been turned to fashion and the analysis of enormous amounts of shopping data. The company has also made a ''disproportionate'' investment in photography, said Cathy Beaudoin, the president of fashion for Amazon. The photography studio, in Kentucky, can shoot more than two images a minute, allowing the company to post new items daily on the Web that were photographed hours earlier.
Most of all, the company is working to improve its presentation, so far most evidently on MyHabit, which Mr. Bezos said represented where Amazon wanted to go with all of its Web design for fashion.
Instead of static product images, for example, models spin and pose to show off the clothing. The model's body measurements and the clothing measurements are provided to help with sizing. And shopper-friendly advice -- does the size 8 shoe run big or small? -- is prominent.
The ramp-up has created buzz as the company has hired models, stylists and makeup artists, started using customer data to personalize brand and size search results, and run the first advertisement campaign ever, in print and outdoors, for the Amazon clothing store.
In the retail clothing world, fears are growing that few will be able to compete with a stepped-up Amazon.
For some brands, the company's size alone makes an overture from Amazon difficult to reject. ''The amount of eyeballs and traffic and retail dollars that are generated through their Web site'' is impressive, said Alex Bhathal, co-president of Raj Manufacturing, which makes licensed swimwear brands like Ella Moss.
Amazon can also offer brands more attractive terms than many other stores. For instance, Amazon does not ask for ''markdown money'' when items do not sell, or return unsold product to a brand, said Ron Friedman, an accountant at Marcum L.L.P. who advises brands like James Perse and American Rag.
And to woo brands, Amazon is willing to make big buys. Jason Cauchi, the creative director of Dallin Chase, had been selling some merchandise to Amazon's Shopbop. Recently Amazon said it would buy items from the entire collection, which Mr. Cauchi said was a rare offer and difficult to refuse.
A retailer like Amazon would typically pay brands a wholesale price for clothes, then set the retail price itself (although more powerful brands often mandate a minimum retail price).
While brands sell some of the same items to different stores, they are increasingly developing exclusive colors or styles to avoid price-comparison issues. ''A manufacturer does not want to kill a business, and the best way to kill a business is to have the same product selling for less on Amazon,'' Mr. Friedman, the retail accountant, said.
But Mr. Bezos said that, despite having taken a low-price approach in other industries, Amazon would not in fashion. ''There's a sophisticated markdown cadence in the fashion industry that we think makes sense and we're basically following that established approach,'' he said.
There are many disbelievers, given Amazon's history in other industries. Mr. Bezos, moreover, has to deal with the fact that he is no fashion guy. Asked in the interview about the brands he was wearing, Mr. Bezos could not name the brands of his shirt or shoes, which he said he bought in New York years ago. The jeans, he said, were Prada (not available on Amazon); his blue ''Jeff'' security badge was dangling from them.
Online Correction: May 7, 2012, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misidentified a founder of Bonobos as Andy Page, rather than Andy Dunn.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 09, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Tuesday with the continuation of an article about Amazon.com's foray into high-end fashion referred incorrectly to William Norwich's role Monday night at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Gala, which was sponsored by Amazon. Mr. Norwich was a host of the live online video coverage, not the host of the gala. And a credit for a front-page picture omitted the given name of the photographer. The picture of Jeff Bezos, chief executive of Amazon, was taken by Matthew Ryan Williams for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeff Bezos, chief executive of Amazon.com, in Seattle with the company's newest product line. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 William Norwich, host of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Gala, with the actress Carey Mulligan. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TOYS & GAMES (72%); PATENTS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); PUBLISHING (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); GROUP BUYING (63%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



315 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Will Rich People Desert the U.S. if Their Taxes Are Raised?

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Americans renounce their citizenship for a variety of reasons, not solely to avoid United States taxation, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
On April 30, the Treasury Department announced that 461 Americans had renounced their citizenship in the first quarter of 2012. A 1996 law requires that every person doing so be named, with their names published in the Federal Register. The idea is to shame those who may be renouncing their citizenship solely to escape taxation.
The extreme step of renouncing one's citizenship is necessary to escape taxation by the United States, because the United States, alone among the major nations of the world, taxes its citizens wherever on earth they live.
Other countries tax only those who live and work within their borders; if their citizens live and work in another country, they are liable only for taxes incurred in that country.
Americans living abroad, however, must not only pay taxes in the country in which they are living, but United States taxes as well, although there is an exemption of $93,000 that is adjusted for inflation annually. The only legal way for American citizens to avoid American taxes is to renounce their citizenship and live their lives permanently in another country.

In recent years, the number of Americans renouncing their citizenship has increased. According to the international tax lawyer, Andrew Mitchel, the number of Americans renouncing their citizenship rose to 1,781 in 2011 from 231 in 2008.
This led William McGurn of The Wall Street Journal to warn that the tax code is turning American citizens living abroad into "economic lepers." The sharply rising numbers of Americans renouncing their citizenship "are canaries in the coal mine," he wrote.
The economist Dan Mitchell of the libertarian Cato Institute was more explicit in a 2010 column in Forbes, "Rich Americans Voting With Their Feet to Escape Obama Tax Oppression."
According to Andrew Mitchel's research, the sharp rise in Americans renouncing their citizenship since 2008 is less pronounced than it appears if one looks at the full range of data available since 1997, when it first was collected. As one can see in the chart, the highest number of Americans renouncing their citizenship came in 1997.
Mr. Mitchel hypothesizes that the reversion of Hong Kong to Chinese control may have forced many residents of that former colony with dual citizenship to renounce their American citizenship, because China does not recognize dual citizenship.
It is undoubtedly the case that the vast bulk of those renouncing American citizenship do so for reasons unrelated to taxation. Americans who marry foreign nationals, for example, often adopt the citizenship of their spouse's nation. Also, many of those on the Treasury list are not actually American citizens, but foreigners who had permanent residence status in the United States. Those born with dual citizenship sometimes prefer to have only one to simplify their lives.
However, reports by Bloomberg News and the Zurich newspaper Tages-Anzeiger suggest that increased scrutiny by the Internal Revenue Service of Americans living in Switzerland, where a number of banks are suspected of aiding tax evasion, may have led some American expatriates living in that country to renounce their citizenship.
The mobility of individuals with a large net worth - who generally have no difficulty finding a nation to welcome them and their capital - has unquestionably increased in the last several years, especially within the European Union, where barriers against the movement of people have fallen sharply. This has reduced the ability of all governments everywhere from engaging in soak-the-rich policies.
As I noted in a recent post, Britain recently reduced its top income tax rate in part because of a belief that it would reduce the number of Britons living abroad. And the victory of the Socialist Franois Hollande in France's presidential election on Sunday, on a platform of raising the top tax rate to 75 percent, may lead to some relocation from there, according to an article in The Financial Times.
However, while there is no doubt that some people do migrate solely because of taxes, the number is small even when it doesn't involve a loss of citizenship.
 A 2006 study in the journal International Tax and Public Finance found that taxes played no role in internal migration flows in Canada.
 Also in 2006, a study in the Cambridge Journal of Economics found no evidence that taxes affected migration within Switzerland despite a wide dispersion in local tax burdens.
 An April 2011 study by the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts found that taxes play almost no role in a person's decision to move from a state, although it will influence her or his decision of where to live once the decision to move has been made.
 A June 2011 study in The National Tax Journal found little evidence that a sharp increase in New Jersey's top income tax rate in 2004 had any impact on the migration patterns of those affected by it.
 A new study by the University of Chicago economist Tino Sanandaji examined the international movement of billionaires from 1996 to 2010. He found that 87 percent stay in the country in which they were born; only a third of those who moved appear to have done so for tax reasons.
The reality is that taxes are just one factor among many that determine where people choose to live. Factors including climate, proximity to those in similar businesses and the availability of amenities like the arts and cuisine play a much larger role.
That's why places like New York and California are still magnets for the wealthy despite high taxes. And although a few Americans may renounce their citizenship to avoid American taxes, it is obvious that many, many more people continually seek American residency and citizenship.

        
Taxes and Employment
        
Britain's Experience in Raising the Top Tax Rate
        
Fanning the Flames of Class Warfare
        
Tax Code Not Aligned With Basic Principles
        
Why Tax Policy Assumes People Are Richer Than They Think

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); CITIZENSHIP (93%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); NATURALIZATION (78%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); LAWYERS (74%); INCOME TAX (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) Bruce Bartlett; citizens abroad; Daily Economist; European Union; Income Inequality; renouncing citizenship; state taxes; Swiss banks; Taxation; Americans Abroad; Citizenship and Naturalization; Income Tax; Internal Revenue Service; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Internal Revenue Service

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



316 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Frugal Traveler)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Visiting the Frugal Promised Land: Business Class

BYLINE: SETH KUGEL


HIGHLIGHT: In Seth Kugel's many years of flying, he had never sat in business class. Here, finally, was his chance. 

 BODY:
No sooner had the captain turned off the "fasten seat belt" sign than the flight attendant on Air Pacific flight 411, headed from Fiji to New Zealand, performed the same dispiriting act I've seen dozens of times around the world: He drew together and Velcroed the flimsy gray curtains, separating the coach cabin from business class.
This time, though, I smiled. In a few days, I'd be on the other side of that polyester divide, finding out what really goes on among the business consultants, rock stars and -- I'm guessing -- bejeweled countesses that sit up there.
It's not every day that a frugal traveler, let alone , sits in business, so first a brief explanation. A credit card offer had netted me over 100,000 nearly free British Airways miles (mostly through a sign-up bonus), and I planned to use them to fly from New York to New Zealand and back via its partner Qantas, for the standard 80,000 miles. But British Airways miles are legendarily difficult to redeem, and this time was no exception.
When I called the airline last October, I offered to fly any day in March -- the off-season -- with a flexible return time. To my astonishment, nothing was available. The next best alternative was to fly New York to Auckland, then back to Los Angeles, wait four days, and pay 25,000 extra miles (which I had, barely) to fly the rest of the way back to New York on another partner, American.
There was a twist: only a business class seat was available. In my many years of flying, I had never sat in business class. Here, finally, was my chance.
So, on a sunny April Friday at Los Angeles International Airport, I headed to my gate and right into the business class line, more excited, for once, to get on a plane than to get off.
The advantages became apparent before boarding even started, when I was pointed not toward the regular, jampacked security line, but upstairs and into a disconcertingly friendly and rapid process. "Hello, how are you today, sir?" said a disturbingly smiley man, checking my ticket. "Have a wonderful flight." I did still have to take off my shoes, but there was next to no line. I eased right through. A few paces down, our business class passenger tributary flowed into the rushing river of the harried coach classes.
At the gate, another luxury: I'd be able to board early, before even the families traveling with small children and passengers needing special assistance. Was that a glint of jealousy I spotted in a toddler's eye as I waltzed past him onto the ramp? I had never felt so alive.
The seat: I was not expecting some masterpiece of design -- this wasn't Emirates or Singapore Airlines, after all -- and indeed, it was not a thing of beauty. But it was big, with a luxuriously winged headrest, a mini-table in addition to the awkward fold-out tray table, and controls to move the seat every which way. I sat down and stretched my legs out and out and out some more until I practically fell off the seat.
This was a morning flight, and though I don't generally drink in the a.m. hours, there's always room for an exception. Whom do you have to bribe to get some 11 a.m. Champagne around here?
No one, it turns out: it arrived within moments. I sipped as I read the menu. Thai curry shrimp with couscous? Sounded good. Glenlivet Scotch? Nice, though a bit too high proof for this early in the day. I noticed we would soon be served "warm mixed nuts" - I had never thought of mixed nuts as heatable.
I was a bit concerned that there was no screen, let alone a 15-inch LCD one, built into the seat in front of me. But no problem - we business-classers soon each received a Samsung tablet preloaded with plenty of movies, television shows and many other options I didn't end up taking advantage of.
An announcement came over the system: food was available for customers in coach. And yes, you could pay for that brisket sandwich with a credit card. Ah, how adorable, paying for food delivered in disposable plastic packaging. I envisioned my Thai curry shrimp arriving on actual china with actual silverware on an actual tablecloth.
As it turned out, I underestimated American: it came on two tablecloths. The shrimp was just spicy enough, and it paired nicely with the chardonnay (lucky guess). The best part, however, was what came next - a choice between Ben & Jerry's ice cream with marshmallows for dessert, or a cheese plate. I chose the ice cream.
I would have asked for both, but that seemed like overkill, especially considering what came toward the end of the flight: warm cookies and cold milk. I was too stuffed to accept -- but did anyway.
Though I didn't need to go to the bathroom, I was still excited to see what might be in store for me in the business class lavatory. Cinnamon-scented potpourri? Antique silver fixtures? Extra-plush Charmin? Alas, it was strikingly similar to the coach class lavatories, with one delightful exception: those in economy class weren't allowed to use it, making for shorter lines.
Most business class passengers must be as happy to land at their destination as those in coach. Not me. Might heavy air traffic force us to circle J.F.K. long enough to call for another round of Ben & Jerry's? No. As a consolation prize, my ragged, ripped rolling suitcase, a priority tag contrasting with worn stickers from Turkish and Brazilian bus carriers, emerged first on the belt.
On the subway ride home, I concluded that I saw the appeal: Roomy seats, smiling service, no lines, warm cookies. But what if I had been paying for a regular ticket? Later, I checked the prices on American's Flight 40 over the next few weeks. The one-way coach price bounced around a bit, averaging $300. Business class was almost always $1,710.
Some companies and wealthy people think that extra $1,410 is worth it; I'd guess most of the rest of us think it's loony. A middle ground of fliers use miles they could use for additional free flights to upgrade to double-tablecloth land. To that, I say to each his own.
I did, though, think back to a moment soon after our flight was aloft. Just as I was settling in to my new, temporary life of luxury, a flight attendant up ahead pulled shut the curtains separating my new friends in business class not from coach but from the real high rollers, in first class. What, what in the world, could be going on up there?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (74%); FAMILY (62%); CHILDREN (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Budget Travel; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) NEW ZEALAND (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



317 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: At Wireless Conference, Different Takes on Demand for Spectrum

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN


HIGHLIGHT: At the CTIA Wireless conference, the president of the wireless trade group CTIA couldn't stop talking about his industry's need for more spectrum. But the head of the Federal Communications Commission seemed more interested in finding technological solutions to surging wireless data growth. 

 BODY:
 At the CTIA Wireless conference in New Orleans on Tuesday, the president of the wireless trade group CTIA couldn't stop talking about his industry's need for more spectrum, the government-rationed radio waves that carry voice calls and wireless data. 
But the head of the Federal Communications Commission seemed more interested in finding technological solutions to deal with the problem of surging wireless data growth.
In a keynote address, Steve Largent, CTIA's president, said spectrum was crucial for stimulating the American economy, as wireless services have helped create new jobs and innovations.
"We simply need more spectrum in a marketplace with more consumer demand," Mr. Largent said. "More spectrum means more opportunity for you."
Carriers want some of the spectrum others have and are seeking approval from the Federal Communications Commission to buy it at government auction, or licenses for it. But even if the F.C.C. gave each carrier a bit more spectrum to expand its network, there is no guarantee it would be enough to address the tremendous growth in wireless data use. Cisco Systems, the networking company, recently published a study that predicts mobile data traffic could grow eighteenfold by 2016.
At the keynote session, Julius Genachowski, chairman of the F.C.C., emphasized the use of a technology called small cells, also known as femtocells, to expand wireless capacity. Femtocells, which consumers can buy to install in their homes, improve cellphone reception by routing calls and data over broadband connections.
Mr. Genachowski said small cells would be the key to meeting the rising demand for mobile data because they increase the density of network deployment several times over. The commission will be holding proceedings to make a band of spectrum available for carriers to install small cells on their networks themselves.
In other words, instead of just having a small cell in the insulated environment of your home, in the coming years this cellphone-boosting technology may be on the network towers for anyone to use.
"Small cells are a big deal," he said during the keynote session. "The small cell revolution will drive enormous change in wireless in the coming years."
Simon Saunders, chairman of the Small Cell Forum, a group that provides small cell deployment worldwide, said that adding 10 small cells to a network would offload 75 percent of traffic coming from users.
Mr. Saunders said the use of small cells on some commercial networks was already in pilot testing, and he expected to see some deployments by the end of the year.

        
Victor in Throttling Case Publishes Guidelines on Taking AT&T to Court
        
AT&T Customer Wins $850 in Data-Throttling Case
        
The State of Mobile: Less Talking, Fewer Texts, More Data
        
Developers Have Mixed Reactions to BlackBerry 10 News
        
Android Is Failing to Get Into Businesses as iPhone and iPad Do

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SMARTPHONES (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%); BROADBAND (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); TABLET COMPUTERS (61%); JOB CREATION (55%) carriers; CTIA; data; F.C.C.; femtocells; networks; Smartphones; Tablets; Telecom; CTIA - The Wireless Association; Federal Communications Commission; Mobile

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); AT&T CUSTOMER INFORMATION (50%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) CTIA - The Wireless Association; Federal Communications Commission

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); RIM (TSX) (50%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

PERSON: JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



318 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: In Blocking Activists, the Fed Protects Poorly Performing Banks

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: In recent matters involving struggling banks, the Federal Reserve has sought to limit the ability of shareholder activists to nominate directors, which some investors view as an instrument of good corporate governance. 

 BODY:
An activist shareholder sought to shake up a money-losing company. It was shaping up to be a typical corporate dogfight - until the Federal Reserve stepped in.
That's what happened recently in the case of First Financial Northwest when a major shareholder, the Stilwell Group, sought to elect two nominees to the board of the savings and loan.
It was not the first time the Federal Reserve had opposed shareholder activism, preferring not to shake things up at badly performing banks.
 First Financial Northwest is a struggling community bank based in Renton, Wash., with more than $1.1 billion in assets. Like many small banks, it did not fare well during the financial crisis, losing about $90 million over the last few years.
In 2010, First Financial was put under special supervision by the federal government and was required to increase its capital, reduce its commercial real estate loan portfolio and enhance its corporate governance. First Financial is now supervised by the Federal Reserve and is required to obtain approval from the government for any change in directors or officers.
In October, First Financial was approached by the Stilwell Group, a New York-based money management firm that had acquired a 7.9 percent stake. First Financial and Stilwell agreed to appoint Spencer L. Schneider, the general counsel of Stilwell, as a director of the bank.
He obtained Federal Reserve clearance to serve, but his tenure was short.
At a Feb. 15 meeting, Mr. Schneider made three demands on the First Financial board. He proposed to "terminate the director emeritus program," which Mr. Schneider claimed paid directors as much as $150,000 a year even after their death for doing "nothing." He also proposed to "remove the directors' photographs from the executive suite walls" since the photos rewarded poor past performance and the bank was "not a country club or an English manor."
Finally, as a symbol of First Financial's newfound austerity, Mr. Schneider wanted to "serve only hard candy at the upcoming annual meeting." He also protested the board's policy of free iPads for directors.
When the First Financial board refused to accede immediately to his demands, Mr. Schneider resigned, claiming that the board was unwilling to make necessary changes.
Stilwell promptly renominated Mr. Schneider and a second director to the nine-member First Financial board, setting off a proxy fight.
At this point, the Federal Reserve stepped in to block Stilwell.
Under government regulations, an acquisition of "25 percent of the voting shares" or "control" of a savings and loan holding company is subject to Federal Reserve approval.
Although Stilwell was seeking only two of nine board seats, or 22 percent of the board - and those two were unlikely to have any kind control over it - the regulator forced Stilwell to reduce the number of its nominees to one. 
The Fed has also recently injected itself into a shareholder activist campaign against Cardinal Bankshares, a Virginia-based bank with about $250 million in assets. Schaller Equity Partners owns 9.8 percent of the bank and initially proposed to fill five of six director seats at the company's May 22 annual meeting.
Cardinal Bankshares is regulated as a bank holding company. The Fed claimed that if Schaller elected a majority of Cardinal Bankshare's directors, then Schaller would also become subject to regulation as a bank holding company, a death knell for the operation of the firm. The regulator was acting under a 2008 policy that states that any shareholder having more than one board seat on a bank potentially has a controlling interest, making it subject to this regulation.
Schaller has subsequently dropped the number of its nominees to three to placate the Fed. Even so, the regulator has taken more steps to ensure that Schaller does not have control over these nominees, claiming that even this number of directors could still make Schaller a bank holding company. The directors are now executing passivity agreements that will limit their ability to coordinate activity with Schaller.
The Fed's position here is bound to raise questions not just among those who favor shareholder activism as an instrument of good corporate governance. The regulator is acting directly to limit shareholder efforts to oust entrenched bank directors intended to improve the operation of banks.
The proxy advisory service Institutional Shareholder Services first raised an alarm about the Fed's conduct. In a note to its clients, I.S.S. argued that "by limiting a dissident slate through regulatory fiat, rather than allowing shareholders to do the winnowing, regulators hobble one of the more powerful corrective mechanisms of capital markets, and insist instead that bank shareholders stick with the devil they know."
In other words, the Fed appears to prefer the management of poorly performing banks over those who want to run the banks' operations better. To accomplish this, it is taking a bureaucratic view of its regulations, claiming in the case of First Financial that two of nine directors constitute control of the bank when it obviously doesn't. Under Fed policies, even trying to start a proxy contest to force management change can subject a shareholder to bank holding company regulations.
The Fed's position is surprising. You might think that after the financial crisis, it would want to move quickly to oust bad bank managers and shape up the banks. Shareholder activists do just this for a living.
Instead, the Fed is blocking shareholders from monitoring and changing banks, leaving only regulators with the ability to effect change. That hasn't worked out well in the past.
Fed officials did not respond to requests for comment, but the central bank has previously stated that these policies were established to ensure those shareholders who reap the benefits of bank ownership also share in the responsibilities of oversight and support.
This is all a matter of balance, however. I understand the argument that shareholder activists can force banks to take short-term actions that are not in the best interests of the company, but regulators will still be there to act in such a case. This should be weighed against the benefits of shareholder activism.
Most unsettling is that the Fed's actions send a message to all banks that they are safe from the activists, and a warning to shareholder activists not to press banks too much. It relieves all banks from the fear of having to answer fully to shareholders.
The Fed is quite busy these days, but perhaps it should take the time to reconsider its policies on shareholder activism. After all we've gone through during the financial crisis, perhaps protecting poorly performing banks against change isn't the best idea.

        
Progress Is Seen in Advancing a Final Volcker Rule
        
Threat of Credit Downgrade Persists for Morgan Stanley

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); DEREGULATION (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (71%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (53%) Federal Reserve; First Financial Northwest; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Federal Reserve System; Deal Professor; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (92%); FIRST FINANCIAL NORTHWEST INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (92%); FFNW (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



319 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Rick Santorum Endorses Mitt Romney

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: In an e-mail to his supporters on Monday night, Mr. Santorum said he would throw his support behind Mr. Romney for the Republican nomination. 

 BODY:
Rick Santorum toldhis supporters in an e-mail Monday night that he was endorsing Mitt Romney as the Republican presidential candidate and that "all hands on deck" would be needed to defeat President Obama in the fall. 
Mr. Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania who dropped his bid for the Republican presidential nomination last month after making a strong showing in multiple states, said he met privately with Mr. Romney in Pittsburgh last Friday. 
During that hour-long meeting, Mr. Santorum said that he felt a responsibility to assess Mr. Romney's commitment to issues that are important to social conservatives and tea party supporters, among others. He said he also wanted a commitment from Mr. Romney, assuring him that there would be "appropriate representation" of conservatives in a Romney administration. 
He said they also discussed the role of the family in the country's economic success. "I was impressed with the Governor's deep understanding of this connection and his commitment to economic policies that preserve and strengthen families," Mr. Santorum said. 
Mr. Santorum noted that he had repeatedly raised concerns during the Republican primary fight over whether Mr. Romney would take on Mr. Obama's health care policy. However, in the e-mail, he told his supporters that he had no doubt that Mr. Romney would work with a Republican Congress to repeal it and replace it. 
"Above all else, we both agree that President Obama must be defeated," Mr. Santorum said. "The task will not be easy. It will require all hands on deck if our nominee is to be victorious. Governor Romney will be that nominee and he has my endorsement and support to win this the most critical election of our lifetime."
He closed by saying that while his conversation with Mr. Romney was productive, he intended to keep the lines of "communication open with him and his campaign."
Despite Mr. Santorum's praise for Mr. Romney in his endorsement, the Democratic National Committee was trying to make sure that people did not forget all the unkind things he said about his fellow Republican during the campaign that were captured onvideo.

        
Christie a Favored Vice-Presidential Pick, Polls Find
        
Santorum to His Supporters: 'Stay Tuned'
        
Santorum Suspends Presidential Campaign
        
Romney Pulls Negative Ad Amid Bella Santorum Illness
        
Santorum Links Obama and Romney on Gun Policies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); FAMILY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) Endorsements; mitt romney; rick santorum; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Elections; The Caucus

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); RICK SANTORUM (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



320 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Romney Campaigns Test Limits of Attacks

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Top political advisers in each campaign on Monday expressed frustration with the rhetoric coming from the other side. 

 BODY:
The contest between Mitt Romney and President Obama has barely begun, and yet both campaigns are already prodding and testing to see how far they can push the line of acceptable attacks.
Campaigning in Euclid, Ohio, on Monday, Mr. Romney was initially silentwhen a female supporter said that Mr. Obama should be tried for treason - a silence that Democrats said spoke volumes about where the Republican thinks the line is.
Hours earlier, in a conference call with reporters, Mr. Obama's top political adviser, David Axelrod, called the people who run "super PACs" backing Mr. Romney - including Karl Rove, the political strategist for President George W. Bush - "contract killers."
Taken together, the incidents suggest the intensity of feelings on both sides has been ratcheted up long before the campaign's usual crunch time in the final few weeks.
And it raises the question of whether the campaigns can wage a fierce political battle without resorting to the kind of destructive personal attacks that have become more and more common at the highest level of American politics.
In interviews on Monday with Mr. Axelrod and with Stuart Stevens, the top political strategist for Mr. Romney, both men expressed frustration about the rhetoric of the opposing campaign. And both said they intended to stay away from character attacks.
"This other stuff, when you get gratuitous in attacking someone's character, someone's fundamental humanity, that's over the line," Mr. Axelrod said, adding that Mr. Romney should have chastised the woman in Ohio right away.
"There's no handbook on this," Mr. Axelrod said. "There isn't a memo from the campaign on it. The thing you have to consult is your own conscience and your own judgment."
Mr. Stevens said that Mr. Romney said later that he did not think the president should be tried for treason. Mr. Stevens said Mr. Romney probably did not hear or understand what the woman had said when he first heard it.
But he criticized Mr. Axelrod for the "contract killers" remark and accused Mr. Obama's campaign of using personal attacks about Mr. Romney's character to try to win the election.
"They've decided to run, at least for the moment, a campaign that is very personal," Mr. Stevens said, pointing to a recent ad that mentions that Mr. Romney has a Swiss bank account.
"I think it's part of their strategy," Mr. Stevens said. "I don't think they respect Mitt Romney's private-sector achievements or others who have succeeded outside of government. I think that is a tone they have." 
Ironically, both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama have gone out of their way at certain moments to describe their opponent in positive terms.
During his kickoff rally on Saturday, Mr. Obama delivered a speech that was hard-hitting and critical. But he also called Mr. Romney "a patriotic American who has raised a wonderful family, and he has much to be proud of." 
Likewise, when Mr. Romney announced his candidacy in a speech in New Hampshire last year, he said Americans had been hopeful that Mr. Obama would succeed when he took the oath of office. 
"At the time, we didn't know what sort of a president he would make," Mr. Romney said. "It was a moment of crisis for our economy, and when Barack Obama came to office, we wished him well and hoped for the best." Later in the speech, he declared the Obama presidency a failure. 
More recently, Mr. Romney has taken to calling Mr. Obama "a nice guy," while quickly adding that "he's in over his head."
But such moments have been fleeting during the months of shadowboxing that Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney have been engaged in while Republicans concluded their nominating process.
Now that the two men and their campaigns have fully engaged, the rhetoric has quickly become even more personal. And as they seek to energize their supporters, both sides run the risk of alienating independent voters often say they are turned off by vitriol.
Both Mr. Axelrod and Mr. Stevens said they are aware of that danger. Mr. Stevens noted that during a debate in Orlando, Fla., Mr. Romney was the only Republican candidate on the stage who refused to call Mr. Obama a "socialist."
"In a Republican primary, when it would have been to his advantage to do it, he didn't," Mr. Stevens recalled.
And yet, both Mr. Axelrod and Mr. Stevens vowed not to relent when it comes to challenging the veracity and character of the other candidate. 
Mr. Axelrod said he sees a pattern in Mr. Romney's behavior, pointing to his decision not to initially criticize Rush Limbaugh's comments this year describing a law student who spoke in favor of the administration's insurance rules on contraception coverage a "slut." And he said Mr. Obama's campaign would not mince words when they think Mr. Romney is lying about something.
"It's hard to be delicate when someone doesn't tell the truth," Mr. Axelrod said.
For his part, Mr. Stevens accused Mr. Obama and his team of a pattern of being ruthless when it comes to dealing with an opponent. He pointed to the tough rhetoric that Mr. Obama and Mr. Axelrod used during his 2008 primary campaign.
"Ask Hillary Clinton's campaign about that pattern," Mr. Stevens said, adding that "I would hope that there won't be a double standard."
Four years ago, Senator John McCain of Arizona was praised after he chided a woman for calling Mr. Obama "an Arab." Not only did he take her microphone away, but he defended Mr. Obama.
"No, ma'am," Mr. McCain famously said. "He's a decent family man, citizen that I just happen to have disagreements with on fundamental issues and that's what this campaign's all about."
But that sentiment from Mr. McCain was repeatedly tested in the waning days of the 2008 campaign, as his supporters often booed him for saying nice things about his opponent. A handful of supporters sometimes yelled "terrorist" in reference to Mr. Obama.
Now, four years later, Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney are about to begin a new contest in an arguably more polarized and divisive atmosphere. So far, both campaigns seem to be struggling to find the right tone.

        
Obama vs. Romney: Battle of the Fairness Doctrines
        
Republicans Use Crowdsourcing to Attack Obama Campaign
        
Romney Confronts Power of the Presidency
        
Pawlenty Sees 2012 as Test of Fortitude
        
Poll Shows Competitive Presidential Contest in Virginia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREASON (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%) 2012; barack obama; david axelrod; mitt romney; Presidential Election of 2012; Stuart Stevens; treason; Axelrod, David; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Stevens, Stuart; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); DAVID AXELROD (90%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Axelrod, David; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Stevens, Stuart

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



321 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2602 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Reflecting on Buffett, Business and Politics | "When Charlie and I took this job, we did not agree to put our citizenship in a blind trust."
That's what Warren E. Buffett said in Omaha over the weekend at Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting when confronted by a shareholder question complaining that Mr. Buffett had become a public advocate for President Obama and the so-called Buffett Rule, which seeks to raise the tax rate on the wealthiest Americans -- many of whom were in the audience, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
Mr. Buffett's longtime business partner, Charlie Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire, quickly quipped that his partner's position on taxes "has reduced my popularity around my country club." It also appeared to reduce Mr. Buffett's popularity among some shareholders. His comments came after the investor had submitted a question, saying: "My 84-year-old father won't invest in Berkshire because of your stance on taxes." Mr. Buffett replied with a zinger: "Sounds like your father should buy stock in Fox."
All of this carping raises an important question: Should corporate executives like Mr. Buffett, who run public companies, advocate personal political positions? Or should they keep their politics to themselves? Throughout the weekend, known as Woodstock for Capitalists, there was a low hum among some investors about Mr. Buffett's outspokenness. DealBook 
Aviva Chief Resigns Over Shareholder Pay Revolt | Andrew Moss, the chief executive of the British insurance company Aviva, resigned unexpectedly on Tuesday in the wake of a shareholder revolt against its pay practices.
Investors balked after Mr. Moss had received a raise from the board for this year despite a slump in the company's stock price. He turned down the raise on April 30, but at a turbulent shareholder meeting on Thursday, a majority of shareholders voted against the company's remuneration report. 
Aviva said on Tuesday that Mr. Moss "felt it was in the best interests of the company that he step aside to make way for new leadership." DealBook 
 DEAL NOTESSoros Wades Into the Presidential Race | In his first major contributions of the 2012 election cycle, George Soros is giving $1 million each to America Votes, a group that coordinates political activity for left-leaning groups, and American Bridge 21st Century, a "super PAC" that focuses on election-oriented research, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Cohen Speaks Out for Veterans | Steven A. Cohen, the founder of the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, spoke at a charity event on Monday, saying veterans returning from war needed better opportunities to find employment, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions  America Movil Looks to Raise Stake in KPN | The Mexican telecommunications giant owned by the billionaire Carlos Slim Hel is offering $3.4 billion to increase its stake in KPN, the Dutch wireless phone and Internet service provider, as it expands outside its core markets. DealBook 
Asahi to Buy Japanese Milk Beverage Company for $1.5 Billion | The Calpis deal is the latest in a string of acquisitions by Asahi, which is seeking to expand into new segments and regions as it deals with a shrinking Japanese beer market. DealBook 
Shareholder Urges Chesapeake to Consider Any Offers | Southeastern Asset Management, an investment firm that holds a 13.56 percent stake in Chesapeake Energy, said, "We urge the board to be open to any offers to acquire the whole company." DealBook 
Marubeni Said to Be in Talks for Gavilon | Marubeni, the Japanese trading firm, is in advanced talks to buy the American commodity trading firm Gavilon for about $5.2 billion including debt, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person close to the deal. REUTERS
 2 Financiers Take Control of Barneys, Ending Its Debt Struggles | Barneys' biggest bondholder, Perry Capital, announced on Monday that it had taken control of the retailer, concluding an effort to reorganize its finances after laboring under nearly $600 million in debt. DealBook 
AMC Said to Be Negotiating With Chinese Theater Owner | AMC Entertainment, the movie theater operator, is in talks with the Wanda Group, one of the biggest theater owners in China, about selling the company or a significant stake, people briefed on the discussions told The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING HSBC Profit Rises 26% in First Quarter | HSBC's pretax profit rose 26 percent, to $6.8 billion, as growth in its Asian and Latin American banking businesses more than made up for a slump in its European operations. DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Could Face Collateral Call | Morgan Stanley estimates it may have to post as much as $7.2 billion in additional collateral or termination payments to counterparties if Moody's downgrades its credit rating three levels. DealBook 
Banker Joins Perella Weinberg | Alexander Schnieders, formerly of Goldman Sachs, has joined Perella Weinberg Partners as a managing director. DealBook 
What's Weighing on Bank Stocks? | Despite arguments from bank chief executives, investors seem to believe banks' troubles are more than just the product of a cyclical downturn, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
At Bank of America, a Call for Better Data | John Bottega, who recently became Bank of America's first data chief, said the financial system could have benefited from a more complete database during the crisis, Bloomberg News reports. "Most banks may have understood their exposure within their firms, but across the industry, without a consistent way to identify counterparties, determining the impact of a major shock was very difficult," he said. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bank of America Offers to Reduce Mortgages | Bank of America began a process of reducing homeowners' debt as part of the $25 billion settlement with state attorneys general, sending letters to thousands of homeowners with offers to forgive a portion of their principal balance by an average of $150,000 each, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Wells Fargo's Play for Prime Brokerage Prompts Skepticism | Moody's Investors Service raised concerns on Monday about Wells Fargo's recent move outside its comfort zone of consumer lending. DealBook 
Credit Suisse Looks to Trade Stocks in China | Credit Suisse plans to apply for a stock trading license in China, to take advantage of loosening restrictions on foreign investment banks, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
European Banks Lose Deals in Africa | Banks like BNP Paribas and Banco Espirito Santo are pulling back from Africa as they fight the debt crisis at home, Bloomberg News reports. Taking their place are big banks like Citigroup and Barclays, and also the South African banks Standard Bank Group and the Nedbank Group. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY  Temasek and RRJ to Invest in Natural Gas Project | Temasek Holdings of Singapore and RRJ Capital, the Asian private equity firm, agreed to invest $468 million in Cheniere Energy, to help the American company build a facility to prepare natural gas for export, Reuters reports. The Blackstone Group committed $2 billion to the project in February. REUTERS
Private Equity Group to Defend Tax Provision | The Private Equity Growth Capital Council is releasing a report on Tuesday that defends the tax-deductible status of the debt the industry uses to finance its business, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Warburg Pincus Said to Sell CAMP Systems | GTCR, a private equity firm based in Chicago, is paying $600 million to $700 million for CAMP Systems, which offers services for owners of private aircraft, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Domestic Investment Is Strictly Defined in China | China's economic planning agency has ruled that in order for renminbi-denominated funds to be considered domestic, all of the money must come from Chinese investors, The Wall Street Journal reports. Some foreign private equity firms had assumed that a small percentage of foreign capital would be allowed. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS  Yahoo's Chief Apologizes to Employees | Yahoo's embattled chief executive, Scott Thompson, sent an e-mail to employees on Monday apologizing for how the issue of his misstated academic credentials had drawn criticism toward the Internet company. DealBook 
Third Point Demands Records From Yahoo's C.E.O. Search | Third Point sent Yahoo a request for records relating to its selecting Scott Thompson, a former eBay executive, as its chief executive, after the besieged technology company admitted that it had misstated its leader's academic credentials. DealBook 
Banks Lose Star Traders to Hedge Funds | The trader exodus continues. Bloomberg News reports: "Wall Street's biggest banks have lost almost two dozen of their most-profitable credit traders in the past 13 months as regulators limit the kind of risk-taking that amplified the housing crisis four years ago." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Pension Fund to Support Ackman in Railway Fight | The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, one of the largest pension funds in Canada, plans to vote in favor of the directors proposed by William A. Ackman for the Canadian Pacific Railway, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
D.E. Shaw to Invest in European Credit | The firm is starting a new fund, known as the Alkali Fund, to invest in various types of loans and loan-based securities, looking to take advantage of "pressure on European banks to reduce their leverage," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS  Zuckerberg Pitches Facebook in New York | Mark Zuckerberg was joined by other Facebook executives at the Sheraton New York Hotel to answer questions from prospective shareholders, discussing topics like the Instagram deal, Bloomberg News reports. CNBC showed footage of Mr. Zuckerberg wearing his trademark hoodie to the meeting. BLOOMBERG NEWS | CNBC
Analysts Pipe Up on Facebook | Ahead of its I.P.O., the social network Facebook got a "buy" rating from Sterne Agee on Monday and an "outperform" from Wedbush Securities on Friday, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Retail Investors Angle for a Piece of Facebook | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Across the country, it has become Mission Impossible for countless financial advisers: trying to nab an investment in the most highly anticipated initial public offering in recent memory. But while most clients will be disappointed, financial advisers and planners are looking for ways to soften the blow with at least some indirect ways to be part of the Facebook action." WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL  SingTel Said to Be Near Deal for Advertising Start-Up | A division of Singapore Telecommunications is nearing a deal to buy AdJitsu, which facilitates animated advertising on mobile devices, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. The unit of SingTel that is said to be making the deal, Amobee, was acquired by SingTel in March for $321 million. REUTERS
Video-Sharing Attracts Venture Capital | A handful of start-ups, like Viddy, Socialcam and Mobli, are competing to be the Instagram for video, and have attracted the attention of venture capitalists, The Wall Street Journal writes. Benchmark Capital, an investor in Instagram, led an $8 million financing round in one of these start-ups, Klip, in November. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Twitpic Releases an iPhone App | Twitpic, the photo sharing service for Twitter, faces hefty competition as it unveils a free app to let people edit photos before posting them, Bits reports. Twitpic's founder said the company was profitable because of advertising. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Google's Self-Driving Cars Coming to Nevada Roads | Nevada's Department of Motor Vehicles approved the nation's first autonomous vehicle license, Reuters reports. REUTERS
LEGAL/REGULATORY  Former Vice Chairman at Dewey Is Said to Claim He Is Owed $61 Million | Morton A. Pierce, former vice chairman of Dewey & LeBoeuf, is said to have informed the firm's leaders in his resignation letter that he is owed the money. DealBook 
Re-Engineering the Business of Law | In the wake of Dewey & LeBouef's troubles, does the legal industry need to change? The chairman of Seyfarth Shaw, J. Stephen Poor, calls for big law firms to examine and reimagine their business model. DealBook 
Britain Fines Japanese Insurance Company $5.3 Million | British authorities on Tuesday fined Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company of Japan 3.3 million for poor corporate governance practices at the insurer's subsidiary based in London. DealBook 
Few Seize on a U.S. Bond Program Backing Green Energy | Even as state and local governments struggle to meet higher green energy standards with ever-shrinking budgets, billions of dollars of so-called Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds have gone unused. DealBook 
A Tough Road for Wal-Mart Shareholders | Unfortunately for shareholders, a recent complaint filed by a pension fund is unlikely to result in any significant changes at Wal-Mart Stores, Peter J. Henning writes in White Collar Watch. DealBook 
U.S. Projected to Make $15.1 Billion on A.I.G. Rescue | The Government Accountability Office estimated in a report released on Monday that the government's bailout of A.I.G. would turn out to be more profitable than first expected, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Ally Financial Gets Approval for Bankruptcy of Unit | Ally Financial would be allowed to put its Residential Capital unit into bankruptcy if it chose to do so, an unidentified Obama administration official told Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Wall Street Self-Regulator Shuffles Staff | The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has hired Robert Colby, a former top federal regulator, as its general counsel, a person briefed on the matter said. Mr. Colby will join the agency from Davis Polk. DealBook 
S.E.C. Said to Order Investigation | The Securities and Exchange Commission has ordered an independent investigation into allegations of sexual misconduct at the office of its inspector general, an unidentified person familiar with the matter told The Wall Street Journal. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Regulators Seek a Backup Plan for Money Funds | As the Securities and Exchange Commission faces pressure not to complete tighter rules for money market mutual funds, some federal officials are looking into whether the Financial Stability Oversight Council could act instead, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Executive Chairman of Bankia Resigns | Rodrigo Rato has stepped down from his position at the Spanish lender Bankia, as the government is expected to initiate a rescue of the company, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
In Singapore, Former MF Global Employees Sue | A group of former employees sued a unit of the bankrupt brokerage MF Global, claiming they were being left in the dark during the liquidation, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Google Gets a Mixed Verdict on Oracle | A jury said that while Google had broadly infringed on software copyrights held by Oracle, the company had not violated other parts of Java, Oracle's software, meaning Google would not have to redesign its Android operating system, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MERGERS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); CHARITIES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); AMERICA MOVIL SAB DE CV (51%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (50%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); AMX (NYSE) (51%); AMX (BMV) (51%); AMOV (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%); ANDREW MOSS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE SOROS (58%); STEVEN A COHEN (55%); STEVEN COHEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (73%) NEBRASKA, USA (73%); BIHAR, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



322 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: A Day For Europe to Count Its Blessings

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: The future might look grim in Europe, but in the past things were invariably worse. As the Continent marks 67 years of peace, it could be time to start looking on the bright side. 

 BODY:
MARSEILLE - Europe is in danger of giving itself a nervous breakdown with all the talk of economic failure and irreversible decline. So it's worth remembering that, although things might sometimes have been better, they have frequently been worse.
And what better reminder than Tuesday's ceremonies marking Victory in Europe Day, the 67th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe and the unconditional surrender of the Nazi Third Reich. 
PUB-DATE: May 8, 1945,
It also marked the beginnings of a pan-European enterprise that, for all the current failings of the European Union that eventually emerged from it, was inspired by the ideal that the continent's nations should never go to war again.
President-elect Franois Hollande and the defeated Nicolas Sarkozy were together at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris for Tuesday's memorial ceremonies, a symbol that, although Europe might be broke, it remains democratic and civilized.
They and most of Europe's present political leaders belong to the first, second and even third postwar generations, with little or no memory of the war or its immediate aftermath. Likewise their electorates, whose present stifled expectations might encourage them to think they have been born into a continent in terminal decline.
In a memorable column late last year, my colleague Alan Cowell compared Europe's present challenges with the mammoth task that faced it in the immediate postwar years.
"As it confronts its massive debt problem and a new austerity threatens to become its default setting, Europe seems to have lost sight of the fact that it has been there before; that the baby boom generation found its roots in postwar hardship; that...the huge affluence of more recent years could barely have been imagined as people struggled to shake off the gloom of war," he wrote.
Europeans embraced a shared austerity as the necessary price to pay to rebuild and to avoid future conflict. "Now, the point of departure is prosperity, a fool's paradise in which Europeans came to see affluence as a state of being, a birthright," Alan wrote.
What is missing in the new austerity is a belief that the pain is being shared equally. That has provoked a range of reactions, from protests about the size of bankers' bonuses to the election of a Socialist president in France who promises to tax the rich.
Europe's crisis and the seeming inability of its political leaders to provide quick solutions have fostered the perception, both at home and abroad, of a continent barely surviving on its past glories. 
Some blame the European Union itself for the Continent's eclipse. Nile Gardiner, describing Mr. Hollande's election victory in France as the latest symbol of the alliance's decline, wrote in Britain's Daily Telegraph: "His government promises to be a symbol of everything that is wrong with Europe today."
Some predictions of Europe's fate verge on the apocalyptic. Commenting on the current state of Europe in the context of recent elections there, the American archconservative Frank Gaffney Jr. forecast in The Washington Times: "Europe may soon be in for another of the horrific cataclysms that have plagued it for nearly all of recorded history."
Come off it, Mr. Gaffney. We've had it worse than this. 

        
Time For Change, But No Revolution
        
The Growing Rebellion Against Austerity
        
Time for Greece and the Euro to Part Ways?
        
Will the Rich in France Head for the Border?
        
Across Angry Europe, Voting for 'The Other Lot'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); BABY BOOMERS (66%) austerity; europe; France; v-e day; world war II; Hollande, Francois; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Elections; European Union; Europe; Featured; View From Europe

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) European Union

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (85%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%) Hollande, Francois; Sarkozy, Nicolas

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe; France

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



323 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Loophole Opposed by Conservatives Now Divides the Senate

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: A vote was scheduled for Tuesday on a proposal to freeze student loan rates by closing a loophole that allows the wealthy to avoid Social Security and Medicare taxes on some income. 

 BODY:
Republicans took to the Senate floor Tuesday to denounce a bill proposed by Democrats that would freeze student loan rates by closing a loophole that allows wealthy individuals to avoid paying Social Security and Medicare taxes on some of their income. A procedural vote on the measure was scheduled for Tuesday afternoon. 
Democrats have referred to the bill as the Edwards bill, as it targets the tax strategy that former Senator John Edwards was criticized for using. In the past, however, many conservatives have dinged the same tax loophole that Democrats now seek to close. 
 The bill would pay for the $5.9 billion loan rate freeze by preventing individuals with incomes exceeding $250,000 who file their taxes as a small business to avoid paying Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes on some of their income. Republicans have denounced the measure as punishing wealthy individuals at a high cost.
 "Sadly the misguided government solution we will vote on today will be counterproductive for our job creators," Senator Mike Johanns, Republican of Nebraska, said on the Senate floor.
 But conservatives have often had a dim view of this loophole. In 2004, the Wall Street Journal editorial page lamented: 
"Senator Edwards talks about the need to provide health care for all, but that didn't stop him from using a clever tax dodge to avoid paying $591,000 into the Medicare system. While making his fortune as a trial lawyer in 1995, he formed what is known as a 'subchapter S' corporation, with himself as the sole shareholder. Instead of taking his $26.9 million in earnings directly in the following four years, he paid himself a salary of $360,000 a year and took the rest as corporate dividends."
That same year, the conservative columnist Robert Novak wrote, "It is one of the last loopholes left in the Internal Revenue Code, and it is a big one." 
Even Sean Hannity of Fox News got in on the act that year, saying: "Hey, John Edwards is worth, what, $30 million to $40 million, set up a sub-S corporation to keep him from paying Medicare taxes on 90 percent of his income, and then he lectures the rest of us how Medicare is going broke." 
The House has passed its own version of a bill that would keep rates on subsidized undergraduate loans from reverting to 6.8 percent, from its current 3.4 percent, by stripping $5.9 billion from a program within the health care law to pay for the freeze. 
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, said Monday: "For Republicans, well, we don't think young people should have to suffer any more than they already are as a result of this president's failure to turn the economy around. We just disagree that we should pay for a fix by diverting $6 billion from Medicare and raising taxes on the very businesses we're counting on to hire these young people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); MEDICARE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); WRITERS (63%); LAWYERS (63%); JOB CREATION (53%) Congress

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (64%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); MIKE JOHANNS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



324 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Boehner Says U.S. Disengagement From Latin America Is Threat to Democracy There

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: House Speaker John A. Boehner was given the Chairman's Award by the Council of the Americas, an international business organization focused on developing open markets. 

 BODY:
House Speaker John A. Boehner said on Tuesday that the possibility of American disengagement from Latin America poses the greatest threat to unity and democracy in the region.
Accepting the Chairman's Award from the Council of the Americas, an international business organization focused on developing open markets, Mr. Boehner identified three challenges to the region, including Iran's ambitions and criminal organizations, like drug cartels and insurgents.
"The best defense against an expansion of Iranian influence in Latin America - and against the destructive aspirations of international criminals in the region - is for the United States to double down on a policy of direct engagement," he said.
Mr. Boehner said one way to further commit to Latin America was to renew trade promotion authority, which would improve the ability of the president to negotiate trade deals with other countries. Strengthening free trade would promote job creation, he said.
"I'm disappointed the administration has not moved to build on these achievements by seeking trade promotion authority," he said.
Mr. Boehner received the council's highest award for his role in the passage of trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. In his remarks, he said he pushed President Obama to pursue all three deals when the president was considering a piecemeal approach.
He credited the House for making the economy a legislative priority, including by passing the previously stalled agreements. The three trade deals were the first to pass Congress since 2007.
"Most of our agenda has now been passed by the House - and in spite of the challenges of divided government, some of it has been enacted into law," he said.
After Congress approved the trade deals, Mr. Boehner led a delegation to Latin America in January, where he met with President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia and President Ricardo Martinelli of Panama.
"My steadfast resolve is to build on the success of the recent past so that one day in the near future, fundamental kindness and respect are attitudes that are taken as 'givens' in these relationships," Mr. Boehner said.
Last year's recipients of the Chairman's Award, which recognizes "a democratically elected leader with a record of significant achievement in hemispheric affairs," were Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, and Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (74%); CARTELS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (53%) Boehner, John A; International Trade and World Market; House of Representatives; Latin America; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (84%) House of Representatives

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (94%); BOB MENENDEZ (57%); RICARDO MARTINELLI (57%); DICK LUGAR (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); JUAN MANUEL SANTOS (50%) Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PANAMA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (72%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



325 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Director Who Headed C.E.O. Search Committee to Stand Down

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Patti S. Hart, the Yahoo director who headed the search committee that picked Scott Thompson as the company's chief executive, will not stand for re-election, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook on Tuesday. 

 BODY:
2:42 p.m. | Updated with Yahoo committee announcement
Patti S. Hart, the Yahoo director who headed the board search committee that picked Scott Thompson as the company's chief executive, will not stand for re-election, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook on Tuesday.
Ms. Hart's departure is the first significant response by Yahoo amid the growing controversy over misstatements about Mr. Thompson's academic record.
The company also announced on Tuesday that it has formed a three-member board committee to investigate Mr. Thompson's hiring and how erroneous academic information appeared in official company documents and on its Web site.
 The three-person committee, which has already begun work, is led by Alfred Amoroso and includes Thomas McInerney and John Hayes; the three directors have all been named to the board within the last three months. 
Yahoo's board also named Terry Bird of the law firm Bird, Marella, Boxer, Wolpert, Nessim, Drooks and Licenberg as the special committee's independent counsel. 
Before last Thursday, Mr. Thompson's biography said he had earned both accounting and computer science degrees from Stonehill College in Massachusetts. After prodding by the hedge fund Third Point last week, Yahoo conceded that Mr. Thompson had earned only an accounting degree.
The committee is also trying to determine whether Mr. Thompson or others knew of the mistake before it was revealed by Third Point. Ms. Hart has been heavily scrutinized for her role in leading the search committee.
Ms. Hart's biographical information also misstated her academic credentials, saying she had a degree in marketing and economics when it was in business administration.
On Monday, Third Point demanded Yahoo's records related to the search that culminated in Mr. Thompson's hiring. Later that day, Mr. Thompson e-mailed Yahoo employees, apologizing for the trouble the controversy has brought upon the company.
All of the members of Yahoo's special committee were named after Mr. Thompson was hired as the company's chief executive.
Mr. Amoroso is a former director of Rovi, an online video service provider once known as Macrovision, and served as that company's chief executive until December. Mr. Hayes is the chief marketing officer of American Express, and previously oversaw the financial services firm's branding activities. Mr. McInerney was the chief financial officer of IAC/InterActiveCorp from January 2005 until March this year.

        
Third Point Demands Records From Yahoo's C.E.O. Search
        
Loeb Accuses Yahoo Officials of Resume Padding

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); INTERNET VIDEO (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); ACCOUNTING (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); WEB SITES (55%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (52%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (50%) Fred Amoroso; John D. Hayes; Patti S. Hart; Scott Thompson; Thomas J. McInerney; Yahoo; Hart, Patti S; Thompson, Scott; Third Point LLC; Yahoo! Inc; Yahoo! Inc|YHOO|NASDAQ; Corporate Governance; Hedge Funds; Technology; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (93%); BIRD MARELLA BOXER WOLPERT NESSIM DROOKS & LINCENBERG PC (83%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (62%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Third Point LLC; Yahoo! Inc

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (93%); IACI (NASDAQ) (62%); AXP (NYSE) (52%) Yahoo! Inc; YHOO; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (62%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (62%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (62%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

PERSON: SCOTT L THOMPSON (93%) Hart, Patti S; Thompson, Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



326 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: At Albany Campus, Obama Promotes Manufacturing Success

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: Presidential candidates usually visit New York only to scoop up cash. And they almost never bother coming upstate. 

 BODY:
 ALBANY - It seemed an odd move politically, the Democratic president who had just begun his formal re-election campaign coming here to one of the bluest states in the country.
Presidential candidates usually visit New York only to scoop up cash. And they almost never bother coming upstate.
But this was President Obama's third visit to the area since taking office. He bounded up on the dais here at a technology campus and was warmly embraced by the state's popular Democratic governor, Andrew M. Cuomo.
 Beforehand, pundits debated how enthusiastically the governor, who rules the roost here and enjoys sky-high approval ratings, would welcome the president. After all, Mr. Cuomo had more or less shrugged off questions about the presidential campaign until recently, saying he had not given it much thought. The theory was that Mr. Cuomo, widely believed to be interested in running for president himself in 2016, did not want to appear too eager to jump into the national spotlight and presidential politics too soon in his young tenure.
 But in a brief introduction, Mr. Cuomo, who had supported Hillary Rodham Clinton in the presidential primary in 2008, praised Mr. Obama. 
 Noting that New York State had gone through a "financial meltdown," Mr. Cuomo declared, "Your leadership has brought this nation through the storm, and we thank you."
 For good measure, he added: "Mr. President, I can promise you this: Because of your leadership, this state is not going backwards. Mr. President, this state is going forward."
 After the two hugged, Mr. Obama returned the compliment.
 "He is doing outstanding work," he said of the governor.
 The setting was a futuristic half-finished building at the campus of the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering at the University at Albany. It is a symbol of the public and private partnerships that have helped revive the economy here, along with the housing market, and created numerous jobs.
 The president said that the college and this region represented the future of the nation's economy. "Right now, some of the most advanced manufacturing work in America is being done right here in upstate New York," he said.
 The visit came as various administration officials, including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., have expressed support for same-sex marriage, which Mr. Cuomo strongly supports and pushed through the State Legislature. Mr. Obama has described his views on the subject as "evolving," and so there was speculation as to whether Mr. Cuomo might lobby the president, at least in private. But there was no indication that it had come up in any conversation as they toured the nanotech complex, and it was not mentioned in public.
 On Air Force One on the way here from Washington, Jay Carney, the president's spokesman, was asked whether the two might discuss same-sex marriage. Mr. Carney said that he did not know but that he expected the president to be asked about it sometime soon in an interview or other setting and that he would probably clarify his views then.
 Mr. Obama spent less than 20 minutes on the stage as he presented a "to-do" list of five actions that he said Congress could take to improve the economy. The list includes items like eliminating tax incentives for companies to send jobs overseas and cutting red tape so that homeowners could more easily refinance their mortgages.
 Huge monitors showed a big Post-it note labeled "Congress To-Do List" with these items unchecked.
 The list, he said, is "about the size of a Post-it note, so every member of Congress should have time to read it."
 The audience of a few hundred people, bunched in a corner of a cavernous concrete room that is still under construction and that will be used for research, was appreciative of the president's visit, though some people wondered why he had chosen to come to a reliably Democratic state.
 "I'm not a politician, so I can't explain it," Richard Matyi, a professor of nanoscience at the college, said as he left the event and headed for the cold rain outside. He said he and his friends concluded that "what is going on here is unique in the world." 
 Michael Yevoli, commissioner of economic development for Albany, said he was thrilled that the president had highlighted "a success story."
 Asked whether the visit would have any political impact, he said that was unlikely, noting that the voter registration here is about 13-to-1 Democratic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (63%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (62%); MARRIAGE (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2016; New York State; The 44th President

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



327 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: The Continuing Reign of Wilbur Ross

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Ross, 74, said on Tuesday that he recently signed a contract to stay on as head of his private equity firm, W.L. Ross &#038; Company. 

 BODY:
Wilbur L. Ross Jr. still plans to run his show.
Mr. Ross, 74, who has been batting away questions about a successor lately, said on Tuesday that he recently signed a contract to stay on as head of his private equity firm, W.L. Ross & Company. 
"I just came back from a one-day trip to Norway," Mr. Ross said during an informal lunch hosted by Bloomberg Markets magazine in Midtown Manhattan. "That should give you an idea I don't have immediate plans" to step down.
He referred to another famous investor, Warren E. Buffett, 81, who faced similar questions last weekend during the Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting.
"I don't know why everybody picks on me, when Warren is older and richer," he quipped.
As Julie Creswell reported in The New York Times, Mr. Ross, who has been trying to raise a new fund, recently put two longtime lieutenants, Stephen J. Toy and David H. Storper, into positions of more power. Mr. Ross said on Tuesday he was preparing for a "gradual evolution" at the firm.
Mr. Ross offered his thoughts on the European crisis, saying that of the Continent's more troubled countries, Ireland was the only one where his firm had dared to invest, keeping Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece at arm's length. His said his investment in the Bank of Ireland was a "play on the recovery of Ireland."
Mr. Ross, who has been investing in distressed banks in the aftermath of the financial crisis, criticized rating agencies on Tuesday, saying they were overcompensating after being criticized for being too soft before the crash. Moody's has warned that it could downgrade big banks, including Morgan Stanley, by several notches.
"The rating agencies have more or less lost confidence in their ability to evaluate complicated transactions," Mr. Ross said.
A supporter of Mitt Romney's run for the presidency, Mr. Ross also had some choice words for President Obama.
"A very bad thing he's done is to run against success in business," he said. "We used to be an aspirational society, and we need to get back to being one."

        
Reflecting on Buffett, Business and Politics
        
Wilbur Ross Raises His Exco Stake to 12%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); POLITICS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); ELECTIONS (61%) Mitt Romney; presidential election; W.L. Ross & Company; Wilbur Ross; Ross W L & Co; Private Equity

COMPANY: W L ROSS & CO LLC (84%); BANK OF IRELAND (82%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Ross W L & Co

TICKER: IRE (NYSE) (82%); BKIR (LSE) (82%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (74%); MITT ROMNEY (64%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORWAY (91%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GREECE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



328 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Republicans in Senate Block Bill on Student Loan Rates

BYLINE: TANYA CALDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Legislation that was intended to prevent the doubling of some student loan interest rates is now in limbo. 

 BODY:
A Democratic bill intended to prevent the doubling of some student loan interest rates is in limbo now that Senate Republicans have blocked its consideration, Jonathan Weisman reports:
Along party lines, the Senate voted 52 to 45, failing to clear the 60-vote hurdle needed to beat back a filibuster and begin debating the measure. Senator Olympia J. Snowe, the retiring moderate Republican from Maine, voted present.
Republicans said they wanted to extend Democratic legislation passed in 2007 that temporarily reduced interest rates for the low- or middle-income undergraduates who receive subsidized Stafford loans to 3.4 percent from 6.8 percent.
But they oppose the Senate Democrats' proposal to pay for a one-year extension by changing tax law that currently allows some wealthy taxpayers to avoid paying Social Security and Medicare taxes by classifying their pay as dividends, not cash income.
"They want to raise taxes on people who are creating jobs when we are still recovering from the greatest recession since the Great Depression," said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, who instead wanted to pay for it by eliminating a preventive health care fund in President Obama's health care law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (94%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); POLITICS (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAX INCREASES (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); MEDICARE (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (51%) Snowe, Olympia J; Interest Rates; Law and Legislation; Student Loans; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Senate

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (88%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Snowe, Olympia J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



329 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: ESPN and Theme Parks Drive Disney Profits

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: The giant entertainment company continued to see growth in ESPN and other cable channels, as well as its theme parks, but had to take a $200 million write down for its failed science fiction epic "John Carter.'' 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - Climbing ad sales and subscription fees at ESPN and cable channels like ABC Family helped the Walt Disney Company increase its quarterly profit by 21 percent from a year earlier, to $1.14 billion.
Disney's financial results, reported on Tuesday afternoon, also carried an optimistic message about consumer confidence from its sprawling theme park operation - a sharp contrast to last week's downbeat job growth and retail sales reports. Operating income at Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, watched as a barometer of the broader economy, surged 53 percent, to $222 million.
Reasons for that division's growth include improved margins and higher guest spending on hotel rooms and food at Walt Disney World in Florida and Disneyland in California. Attendance at Disney's North American parks increased 7 percent and per-capita spending increased 5 percent. Attendance and spending also increased at Disney's parks in Hong Kong and Tokyo.
James A. Rasulo, Disney's chief financial officer, speaking in a conference call to analysts on Tuesday, said the Florida and California resorts were seeing "a big pickup" in interest from local residents and annual passholders.
Still, Disney was not firing on every cylinder in the three months that ended March 31. The company's movie studio swung to a loss of $84 million (compared with operating income of $77 million in the same period a year before) because of a $200 million write-down tied to "John Carter." The science fiction epic took in $271 million at the global box office, or less than half of what Disney needed to cover the film's exorbitant production and marketing costs.
Losses also mounted at the entertainment giant's interactive division, which is home to Disney.com (undergoing yet another overhaul) and Playdom, a maker of simple online games. Although Disney appears to be making progress in turning around the unit, interactive media lost $70 million in the recent quarter, the second in Disney's fiscal year, as the company continues to rework its approach to video games; Disney's losses in interactive media total $1.19 billion since 2008.
Over all, Disney reported earnings per share of 58 cents for the quarter, up 18 percent from 49 cents a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings per share of 56 cents. Revenue rose 6 percent, to $9.6 billion.
Earnings per share for the recent quarter exclude a restructuring and impairment charge of $38 million as well as a $184 million noncash gain related to the completion of Disney's takeover of UTV Software, a fast-growing entertainment conglomerate in Mumbai.
Disney on Tuesday showcased a television empire experiencing rare across-the-board health; operating income at the TV division increased 13 percent, to $1.7 billion. The company's cable offerings - ESPN, Disney Channel, ABC Family, Disney XD - each had climbing ratings, increased ad sales or both. Disney's local TV stations and ABC broadcast network saw a 37 percent spike in operating income largely because of lower programming costs and higher ad revenue.
The strength of Disney's television portfolio sets it apart from most of its media rivals. Time Warner, Comcast and Viacom each reported climbing ad sales and subscriber fees last week as part of their quarterly financial results, but each is battling at least one big TV fire. Time Warner's TNT has suffered steep viewer erosion; Comcast's NBC network remains in the ratings basement; ratings at Viacom's Nickelodeon have recently plunged 20 percent.
Disney's chairman and chief executive,Robert A. Iger, in the conference call, sought to underscore the health of ESPN, which is by far the largest contributor to Disney's overall profitability. Some analysts have been fretful about escalating programming costs at ESPN and its continued ability to grow by raising subscriber fees higher and higher.
Mr. Iger called ESPN "quite well positioned to remain the pre-eminent sports brand," noting that it holds long-term contracts with the National Football League and two pre-eminent college sports conferences, the SEC and Pac-12, among others. Disney has also secured a decadelong new carriage agreement with Comcast. As part of the Comcast deal, completed in January, WatchESPN, an app that lets viewers watch sports on computers, mobile phones and tablets, is now available to 40 million subscribers.
Of course, some crowing was in order after Disney's release of "Marvel's The Avengers," a superhero movie that took in $207.4 million last weekend in North America, breaking a record for the biggest opening weekend of all time. Mr. Iger said Avengers-related merchandise sales - particularly for the Incredible Hulk - had been "very strong," with some retailers experiencing shortages.
"It's a great illustration of why we like Marvel so much," Mr. Iger said. (Disney bought Marvel Entertainment in 2009 for about $4 billion.) "Yes, we are in development on a sequel."

        
Disney Enters Into Chinese Partnership on Animation
        
At Shareholder Meeting, Disney Commits to Hire 1,000 Veterans
        
State of Utah Says It Is a Happy Backer of 'John Carter'
        
In Filings, Disney Rebuffs Criticism of Shareholders Advisory Service
        
Deal Puts Mickey Mouse and Spielberg on Chinese Screens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); CABLE TELEVISION (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); FILM (87%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); RETAIL SALES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (62%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%) The Walt Disney Company; Amusement and Theme Parks; Cable Television; Company Reports; Computer and Video Games; Movies; Television; Disney, Walt, World; Disneyland; ESPN; Walt Disney Company; California; Florida; Hong Kong; Walt Disney Company|DIS|NYSE

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); ESPN INC (92%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (85%); DISNEY INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP (58%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (56%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (53%); UTV SOFTWARE COMMUNICATIONS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, World; Disneyland; ESPN; Walt Disney Company

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%) Walt Disney Company; DIS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (50%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDIA (72%) California; Florida; Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



330 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Brown Calls on Warren to Release Law School Records

BYLINE: ABBY GOODNOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: Senator Scott P. Brown cited "legitimate questions" about whether Elizabeth Warren had claimed American Indian heritage as a way to advance her academic career. 

 BODY:
BOSTON - Senator Scott P. Brown on Tuesday asked Elizabeth Warren, his likely Democratic opponent, to publicly release her applications to law schools and personnel files from the universities where she has taught. He cited "legitimate questions" about whether Ms. Warren had claimed American Indian heritage as a way to advance her academic career.
The Brown campaign and the Republican Party have sought to keep such questions circulating since The Boston Herald reported late last month that Harvard Law School, where Ms. Warren currently teaches, once cited her as American Indian in the 1990s, when it was under attack for not having a diverse faculty.
Although his aides have hammered Ms. Warren over the issue, Mr. Brown himself has kept quiet about it until now, only urging reporters to keep looking into it. But on Tuesday he offered his own harsh rebuke, saying in a statement that Ms. Warren's "changing stories, contradictions and refusal to answer legitimate questions have cast doubt on her credibility and called into question the diversity practices at Harvard."
He added, "The best way to satisfy these questions is for Elizabeth Warren to authorize the release of her law school applications and all personnel files from the various universities where she has taught."
The Warren campaign pointed out that Mr. Brown issued the statement shortly after voting with other Republicans to blocklegislation that would freeze student loan interest rates by closing a tax loophole. Ms. Warren had supported the plan; Republicans are pushing a different way of paying for the rate freeze.
"Once again, Republican Senator Brown is shamelessly attempting to divert attention from his record on the issues that really matter in this election, like the cost of student loans," said Alethea Harney, a spokeswoman for Ms. Warren. "Minutes after Scott Brown voted with his Republican Party to double interest rates on student loans, he ridiculously attacked Elizabeth Warren with questions that have already been answered."
Ms. Warren has acknowledged listing herself as a minority in a national directory of law professors in the 1980s and '90s, citing family stories about American Indian ancestors and saying she had done it to "meet more people who had grown up like I had grown up." And a genealogist in Boston has found evidence suggesting her great-great-great grandmother was Cherokee.
But Ms. Warren has also repeatedly said that she got all her teaching jobs based on merit, not ancestry. People involved in her hiring at the University of Texas, the University of Pennsylvania and Harvard have backed up that claim, although Harvard has not explained why its law school spokesman described Ms. Warren as Native American in a 1996 article in the Harvard Crimson.
On Sunday, the chairman of the Massachusetts Republican Party wrote a letter to Harvard demanding that it investigate Ms. Warren's "false claims to be a minority" and whether she was afforded unfair advantages.
In response, Charles Fried, a Harvard professor who helped hire Ms. Warren, released a statement saying, "The notion that she attained her position and maintains her reputation on anything other than her evident merit is complete nonsense."

        
Warren Continues to Face Questions About American Indian Status
        
Senate Candidates in Massachusetts Release Their Tax Returns
        
Elizabeth Warren Introduces Herself to Massachusetts Voters in New Ad
        
Massachusetts Senate Candidates Look to Limit Outside Advertising
        
Warren Raised $5.7 Million for Senate Bid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GENEALOGY (60%) Elizabeth Warren; Scott Brown; Brown, Scott P; Warren, Elizabeth; Elections; United States Politics and Government; Massachusetts

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD (57%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (94%); ELIZABETH WARREN (94%); SHERROD BROWN (79%) Brown, Scott P; Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



331 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Is Obama More Popular Than He Should Be, Revisited

BYLINE: JOHN SIDES


HIGHLIGHT: After discussion from FiveThirtyEight readers, looking back and extending an analysis that noted President Obama's approval rating exceeded a theoretical approval rating predicted by history, the economy and other factors. 

 BODY:
In an earlier post, I noted that President Obama's approval rating was higher than a model of presidential approval predicted -- something that seemed to set him apart from previous presidents. In response, commenters here on FiveThirtyEight and The Monkey Cage (see also Jay Cost) noticed that, for most presidents from Dwight D. Eisenhower until Mr. Obama, the model's predicted approval rating was consistently lower than the actual approval rating. In this post, I want to do four things:

        
Describe why this was true.
        
Report results from what I think is a better model.
        
Demonstrate that my original point -- Mr. Obama is more popular than expected -- still holds, but to a lesser extent.
        
Extend the analysis by showing that Mr. Obama's "better-than-expected" popularity is due to his appeal among Democrats and independents, but not Republicans.
First, why did the model seem to underestimate the approval of most presidents? The reason was how the model dealt with this fact: in addition to the systematic factors that influence presidential approval -- economic indicators, for example -- idiosyncratic factors will also influence approval. If we want to look at presidential approval from 1948 to 2008, then predict what Mr. Obama's approval "should be," how should we account for these idiosyncratic factors?
In my earlier post, I did this by including a variable for each presidential administration from Eisenhower to George W. Bush. I did not include a variable for Harry S. Truman, since the model cannot have a set of factors that perfectly predict each other -- and given that the presidential approval data start in 1948 and end in 2008, knowing that the president is not Eisenhower up through George W. Bush means that you can perfectly predict that it must be Truman. (See the "dummy variable trap.") Instead, Truman's approval rating would be reflected in the model's intercept -- that is, the estimated approval rating when the other variables in the model equal zero and when the president is none of Eisenhower through George W. Bush.
The problem arises because the intercept is part of the prediction of Mr. Obama's approval ratings. And because Truman was unpopular during his second term -- on average, only 39 percent of Americans approved of him -- the intercept is deflated. Thus, the model's predictions for Mr. Obama and most other presidents would tend to be lower than their actual ratings, simply because most presidents have been (on average) more popular than was Truman during his second term. This is what commenters noticed. After further reflection, I believe this feature of the model was a mistake. I thank commenters for making me think harder about this. (And now might be a good time to remind readers, especially those reading via RSS, that the "I" is not Nate Silver but John Sides, a guest blogger.) This is a nice example of how online commentary about articles can generate important insights.
A better model would essentially average the idiosyncratic factors of each president to generate a baseline against which Mr. Obama's approval could be evaluated. One way to do that is to estimate a fixed-effects model. In this model, the intercept becomes the average of the approval ratings of the presidents besides Mr. Obama, again assuming that any other factor in the model is equal to zero. Using this model, and including the same economic and other factors as in the original model, I can again generate an out-of-sample prediction for each president from Truman through Mr. Obama (click image to enlarge):
This model's predictions are not consistently greater than actual approval. There is instead a mixture of under- and overestimation. To be sure, the model is not perfect. Because the model includes a "lagged" measure of presidential approval (that is, presidential approval in the previous quarter), the model's predictions also sometimes lag the president's actual approval rating by a quarter. This is particularly true when the model does not fully anticipate sharp increases in approval, like the rally effects at the outset of the gulf war, after Sept. 11, etc. Still, the model of approval from 1948 to 2008 explains about 84 percent of the variation in approval ratings. The median discrepancy between actual approval ratings and the model's predictions is only 3.2 points in absolute value.
So what about Mr. Obama? Here is a graph just of his actual and expected approval ratings.
As in my original post, Mr. Obama is generally more popular than he should be. But his approval rating exceeds the prediction by about 2.7 points, on average, not by the nine points I originally reported. In certain quarters, his approval rating does exceed expectations by a larger amount -- for example, by eight points at the beginning of 2011, when gross domestic product grew very slowly and inflation increased somewhat, but his approval rating remained steady. His rating is also six points larger than expected in the first quarter of 2012, which is the most recent quarter in which the economic data is available. Indeed, over the past three quarters, there is a hint that the gap between Mr. Obama's expected approval and his actual approval is beginning to grow.
Mr. Obama is again more popular than most other presidents, relative to the model's prediction. If you consider the out-of-sample predictions for all presidents, only one president consistently "beat" the prediction in his first term to an extent greater than Mr. Obama: Ronald Reagan, who was about 3.3 points more popular than the prediction, on average.
Mr. Obama's better-than-expected popularity arises largely because he is more popular with Democrats and independents, but not Republicans. Using historical presidential approval data broken down by party, I estimated the same model and compared its prediction to Mr. Obama's actual approval among Democrats, independents and Republicans (click on image to enlarge).
On average, Mr. Obama's approval is higher than expected among Democrats and independents, but not among Republicans. In fact, his approval is actually slightly lower than expected among Republicans. Among first-term presidents, his performance versus expectations within his own party is exceeded only by Reagan's performance. In fact, it's worth contrasting Mr. Obama to other recent Democratic presidents. Bill Clinton performed no better or worse than expected among Democrats. Jimmy Carter performed much worse than expected (seven points). These facts may allay frequent fears (or hopes) during Mr. Obama's first term that he was "losing the base" or otherwise losing support among important Democratic constituencies. This may have been true among some Democratic or liberal activists - many of whom disagreed with the president on various issues - but it was largely not true among Democrats in the public. Not only does Mr. Obama remain relatively popular among Democrats, but he is also more popular than we might otherwise expect. In the most recent quarter, his approval among Democrats (as well as independents) is about six points higher than expected.
Of course, these results aren't necessarily surprising. As the political scientist Gary Jacobson has documented, presidential approval ratings are increasingly polarized by party. This has certainly been true of Mr. Obama. But the very forces of partisan polarization -- the "red America" and "blue America" -- that Mr. Obama deplored as a presidential candidate may have buoyed his approval rating as president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (52%) Politics; Polling

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012



332 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Mitt Romney Bails on the Truth

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican candidate said he would "take a lot of credit" for Detroit's recovery. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney's claim that his ideas contributed to the revival of the auto industry is preposterous and easy enough to knock down. It's exhausting, however, to refute each and every laughable distortion or outright untruth that he and his campaign issue virtually every day.
Mr. Romney told a Cleveland television station yesterday that he would "take a lot of credit" for the industry's comeback because he recommended that General Motors and Chrysler go through bankruptcy, which they did. "I pushed the idea of a managed bankruptcy and finally when that was done, and help was given, the companies got back on their feet," he said.

To anyone with the slightest knowledge of what happened in Detroit in 2008 and 2009, it's a breathtaking statement. The companies didn't survive simply because they declared bankruptcy; they were bailed out with $80 billion in taxpayer money. That proved to be one of the government's best investments in modern times, and 1.45 million people are working as a direct result of it.
And Mitt Romney unequivocally opposed that bailout.
He didn't just oppose it in 2008, when he wrote a notorious op-ed essay for The New York Times saying if the bailout were granted, "you can kiss the American automotive industry goodbye." He also said the bailout was unnecessary while campaigning for the Michigan primary earlier this year, defying the auto executives who think that's nonsense. Even the newspaper that endorsed him, the Detroit News, said the government saved the industry from "the darkest hour of its history."
It's unlikely Mr. Romney will be able to get away with this kind of thing in Michigan, where people know better. But for months he and his campaign have pushed the boundaries of veracity on a huge range of subjects, from the number of jobs created during the Obama administration to the economy's effect on women to the phony "apology tour" he claims the president has taken.
For these crimes against accuracy he is chided by newspaper fact checkers and denounced by editorialists. Greg Sargent of the Washington Post regularly notes how much Mr. Romney is counting on the public's amnesia about the depth of the recession and its generally faulty memory of recent events, such as the Detroit bailout. 
Otherwise, the Romney campaign hasn't paid much of a price for its mistruths. Mr. Obama has done his share of exaggerating, too, and voters may figure that all politicians do it. That's a false equivalency: unlike Mr. Romney's campaign, the president's is grounded in reality.

        
Detroit Automakers Are Rebounding. Karl Rove Is Offended.
        
Crying Treason
        
I Promise That if Elected, Everyone Will Win the Lottery
        
Let Them Go Golfing
        
Romney's Victory Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); LOTTERIES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); POLITICS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); GOLF (50%) Auto bailout; Detroit; Mitt Romney; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); KARL ROVE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



333 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Mourdock Defeats Lugar in Indiana Senate Primary

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Richard G. Lugar, a six-term Republican senator from Indiana, lost his bid to stay in office after Richard E. Mourdock, his Tea Party-backed rival, questioned his conservative credentials. 

 BODY:
7:50 p.m. | Updated Richard G. Lugar, a six-term Republican senator from Indiana, lost his bid to stay in office after his Tea Party-backed rival questioned his conservative credentials and accused Mr. Lugar of losing touch with Indiana and its voters. 
Richard E. Mourdock, the state's treasurer, defeated Mr. Lugar in the Republican primary on Tuesday, according to networks and The Associated Press. Mr. Mourdock will face Joe Donnelly, a Democratic member of the House, in November.
The results of the primary end the career of one of the longest-serving members of the Senate and provide a new trophy for the Tea Party movement. Mr. Lugar, 80, leaves after three decades as one of the chamber's leading foreign policy experts and with a reputation as a voice of moderation in his party.
That reputation - and a sense among his constituents that he had long ago become a creature of Washington - doomed Mr. Lugar, who had not faced a primary challenger in more than a quarter-century. 
Mr. Mourdock repeatedly accused Mr. Lugar of not being conservative enough for Indiana. He pointed to Mr. Lugar's votes to confirm President Obama's Supreme Court nominees, support for immigration legislation known as the Dream Act and his backing of bank bailouts during the economic crisis.
Conservative organizations with connections to the Tea Party movement flocked to Mr. Mourdock, hoping to add to the list of moderate senators they had helped to oust over the past several years. (Bob Bennett, Republican of Utah, and Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, both lost primary battles to Tea Party candidates, though Ms. Murkowski ran as an independent and kept her seat.)
But Mr. Mourdock also benefited from the perception that Mr. Lugar had long ago abandoned Indiana for a life in Washington. The senator and his wife live in suburban Washington, having sold their house in Indiana years ago.
That became an issue when election officials ruled him ineligible to vote in his former home district. The Marion County election board voted that he no longer meets the residency requirements needed to vote in the county.
That controversy fueled Mr. Mourdock's case that Mr. Lugar no longer had the interests of Indianans at heart.
The Indiana Democratic Party released a statement Tuesday evening thanking Mr. Lugar for his service and criticizing Mr. Mourdock as an "extremist" who is "out of touch with Hoosiers."
"Like all Hoosiers, we owe Senator Lugar a debt of gratitude for his long and storied career," said Dan Parker, the Democratic Party chairman. "Hoosiers deserve real leadership that will reach across the aisle in Richard Lugar's successor, not Richard Mourdock's Tea Party extremism."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (94%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); FOREIGN POLICY (54%); BANK FAILURES (50%) Lugar, Richard G; Mourdock, Richard E; Primaries and Caucuses; Tea Party Movement; Senate; Indiana; Congress; Elections

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Senate

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%)

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (96%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); JOE DONNELLY (58%); ROBERT BENNETT (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Lugar, Richard G; Mourdock, Richard E

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Indiana

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



334 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Marriage Maneuvers

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Shouldn't proponents of same-sex marriage be pushing the president harder? 

 BODY:
5:47 p.m. | Update 
In the latest Gallup poll, 50 percent of Americans support redefining marriage to include same-sex couples - which is more than the percentage of Americans that supported the Affordable Care Act, think favorably of the controversial 2009 stimulus package, or approve of Barack Obama's job performance in general. Among independent voters, meanwhile, support for same-sex marriage is up to 57 percent, meaning that more independents support same-sex marriage today than voted for Obama during his easy victory in 2008.
Given these numbers, it seems a little strange that the president is so unwilling to acknowledge what every non-delusional Washington observer believes to be the case - that like his voluble vice-president, he is part of the emerging pro-same-sex-marriage majority, rather than the opponent that he still officially pretends to be. Why does a president who declined to defend the Defense of Marriage Act persist in the ridiculous pretense of an "evolving" position, one might reasonably ask (an evolution that will be complete, one assumes, the day he wins re-election), when same-sex marriage might actually be a political winner, and his wink-and-a-nod approach to the issue looks so transparently calculated?
Journalists looking for an answer to this question have largely focused on the possibility that a presidential shift on same-sex marriage might depress Democratic turnout among blacks and Hispanics, two crucial constituencies in which support for same-sex unions is lower than in the country as a whole.
But there are two deeper reasons why the president might be leery of being honest about what we can reasonably assume are his actual convictions on the issue.
The first reason is that while the increase in public support for same-sex marriage over the last two decades has been astonishingly swift, it has not been irreversible. Instead, sudden bursts of legal momentum - mostly driven by judicial rulings, from Massachusetts to Iowa - have often prompted temporary backlashes. In Gallup's polling, support for same-sex marriage rose from 35 percent to 42 percent between 1999 and 2004, but then dropped back to 37 percent; it rose to 46 percent just before Obama's 2008 victory, but then dropped back to 40 percent a year later. Today's 50 percent support likewise represents a slight drop-off from the high of 53 percent in the survey Gallup conducted last year.
This pattern suggests that Americans grow more resistant to same-sex marriage the more they feel that it's being imposed upon them by an unelected judicial elite, and grow more supportive the more it seems to be gaining ground organically. A president is not an unelected judge, but a public flip-flop on the issue by the nation's chief executive might feel like yet another elite attempt to pre-empt a debate that appears to be moving toward a resolution, but hasn't quite been settled yet.
The second reason for the White House's caution is that opinion polling has consistently understated opposition to same-sex marriage since the issue rose to national prominence. Voters who say they support it when Gallup and other pollsters come calling can behave very differently in the privacy of the voting booth.
In a 2010 paper, for instance, the New York University political scientist Patrick J. Egan compared polling in advance of state same-sex marriage referendums to the actual results, and found that
the share of voters in pre-election surveys saying that they will vote to ban same-sex marriage is typically seven percentage points lower than the actual vote on election day.
That seven-point gap between appearances and reality may help explain why same-sex marriage supporters lost referendums they expected to win in liberal states like Maine and California. And it explains why a savvy White House might take polls suggesting that the issue is a political winner with a very large helping of salt.
But to say that the president's approach is understandable does not mean that it's necessarily defensible. Supporters of same-sex marriage have worked very hard to frame their issue, not as an ordinary political conflict, but as an all-or-nothing question that pits enlightenment and progress against reaction, bigotry and hate. I don't accept that framing, but I accept that its architects genuinely believe in it, and see the conflict over same-sex unions as a clear-cut struggle between good and evil, with no possibility of middle ground.
If same-sex marriage isn't an issue where people can disagree in good faith, though, then the president's evasions and obfuscations can't be treated as ordinary political maneuverings, and excused as just so much politics-as-usual. If the debate is as black and white as many supporters of same-sex marriage argue, then they should be much harder on political leaders who pretend that it's a gray area. 
Indeed, if you accept the framing of the debate that many liberals (and many journalists) embrace, then you have to acknowledge that President Obama has spent the last four years lying to the American people about his convictions on one of the defining civil rights issues of our time, and giving aid and comfort to pure bigotry in the service of his other political priorities. 
This is a harsh indictment, but it's one that follows inexorably from premises that many of the president's own supporters have wholeheartedly embraced. If they hold true to these premises - and the press holds true to its obligations - then the kind of uncomfortable questions the White House spent this week dodging will be asked again and again of the president over the course of the campaign to come.

        
Economy or Personality?
        
The Liberalism of Fear
        
The President, Gas Prices and the Pipeline
        
To Stop Iran, the G.O.P. Should Back Obama
        
The Uses of Polarization

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (96%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%) Barack Obama; Defense of Marriage Act; Joe Biden; presidential election of 2012; same-sex marriage; Obama, Barack; Defense of Marriage Act (1996); Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (56%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



335 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Worries About the Euro Crisis and Greece Weigh on Wall Street

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and DAVID JOLLY; Paul Geitner contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks in the United States and Europe declined Tuesday and the euro fell after the leading party in the Greek Parliament was unable to form a government, adding to fears that an outcry against austerity measures is leading the Continent back into turmoil. 
The Radical Left Coalition in the Greek Parliament, which has objected to the government spending cuts imposed on Greece as part of its international bailout agreements, was seeking to create a government on Tuesday, a day after the New Democracy Party failed to find sufficient partners to build a majority.
Amid the renewed uncertainty, stocks on Wall Street declined. The Dow Jones industrial average closed lower for the fifth straight session, falling 76.44 points, or 0.59 percent, to 12,932.09. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.86 points, or 0.43 percent, to 1,363.72, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 11.49 points, or 0.39 percent, to 2,946.27. The euro fell to $1.3009.
Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in London, said the market ''began to panic a bit late last week'' on fears about what might happen in the French and Greek elections.
He said the euro had been holding up well. ''But obviously the risks have risen significantly in terms of a Greece departure,'' he said, ''and we think that's very negative for the currency.''
Among the most actively traded shares on Wall Street, stock in Fossil fell more than 37 percent, to $78.52. The company's first-quarter revenue of $589.5 million was below expectations. The company, which makes fashion accessories, said it was ''cautious'' about the impact of the European economy on its results.
Douglas S. Roberts, chief investment strategist for Channel Capital Research Institute, said the political changes in Europe could be raising questions about the ramifications for United States companies if access to European markets changed.
''People are wondering whether this is a continuation of the status quo,'' he said. ''A lot of the brands' earnings are global.''
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 101 13/32, and the yield fell to 1.84 percent, from 1.87 percent late Monday.
Eric Viloria, the senior currency strategist for Forex.com, said speculation was mounting that Greece might exit the euro zone, and that accounted for the decline in equities and a shift to safer treasuries. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed off 2 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London fell 1.8 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris was down 2.8 percent, and Greece's benchmark A.S.E. index lost 3.6 percent.
In New York, crude oil prices fell 93 cents to $97.01 for June delivery.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); GAIN CAPITAL HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: GCAP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GREECE (98%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



336 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Keeping The Internet Neutral

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Imagine a network of private highways that reserved a special lane for Fords to zip through, unencumbered by all the other brands of cars trundling along the clogged, shared lanes. Think of the prices Ford could charge. Think of what would happen to innovation when building the best car mattered less than cutting a deal with the highway's owners.
A few years ago, Tim Wu, a professor at Columbia Law School and a leading thinker about the evolution of the ''information economy,'' warned members of the House judiciary committee that this could be the fate of the Internet. Companies offering broadband access, he said, should not be allowed to discriminate among services online. If they did, the best service would not always win the day. ''It's not who has a better product,'' he explained. ''It's who can make a deal with AT&T, Verizon, Comcast or Time Warner.''
That world may be right around the corner. Last month, the online video powerhouse Netflix started a political action committee to complement a budding lobbying effort in support of the idea that all content must be allowed to travel through the Internet on equal terms. Netflix is trying to build a coalition of businesses to make the case for this open access, also called network neutrality. 
''Net neutrality has broad consumer and voter support,'' Reed Hastings, the chief of Netflix, said in an interview. ''It is important for the sake of public access that the rules apply equally.''
Netflix's immediate concern is Comcast, the biggest broadband provider in the country, whose cable brings the Internet to one in five connected homes. In March it announced that watching its Xfinity TV service on the Microsoft Xbox 360 would not count against subscribers' broadband data allowance of 250 gigabytes a month.
This, Mr. Hastings says, will give Comcast's television lineup an edge over rival shows streaming through the device, which will consume subscribers' data allotment. And nobody cares more than Netflix, whose movies and TV programs account for about a third of the peak online traffic.
''If I watch last night's 'S.N.L.' episode on my Xbox through the Hulu app, it eats up about one gigabyte of my cap, but if I watch that same episode through the Xfinity Xbox app, it doesn't use up my cap at all,'' Mr. Hastings wrote on his Facebook page. ''In what way is this neutral?''
Comcast argues that its Xfinity move is not subject to the Federal Communications Commission's neutrality rules because the video travels exclusively on its network and not on the public Internet.
But the issue is not a mere business spat to be resolved between Comcast and Netflix. Comcast's data cap policies are reportedly giving Sony second thoughts about a planned Internet video service to compete against cable and satellite television. It's not even just a spat about TV.
The emerging dispute between Netflix and Comcast underscores the core weakness of the Internet economy. To reach the multitude of online services competing for your attention, you must first get through a bottleneck that is not competitive at all: high-speed broadband access.
Today, 96 percent of Americans have a choice of at most two broadband providers -- a cable company and a phone provider. For consumers who desire very high speeds, cable is often the only choice -- along with Verizon's FiOS and AT&T's U-verse in small pockets of the country. If given free rein, these gatekeepers could determine which services get to drive through the pipes that make up the Internet at what speeds and prices.
Costs are higher when there is little competition. If only 43 percent of American households with income under $25,000 a year have wired access into the home, it's because most of the rest cannot afford it. The cheapest available broadband package is more expensive in the United States than in 28 of the 34 industrialized countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, when measured in dollars per megabit of speed.
Just look at your phone or cable bill. In New York, Verizon offers its fast FiOS triple-play plan -- including unlimited national calls and downloads at 25 megabits per second -- for a promotional rate of $84.99 a month. In France, Iliad offers packages that include free international calls to 70 countries and a download speed of 100 megabits per second for less than $40.
There is little mystery here. About a decade ago, the government forced France Telecom to lease capacity on its wires to rivals for a regulated price, allowing competitors like Iliad to storm in. The United States took a different path: the Telecommunications Act of 1996 had opened the possibility of similar unbundling, but the F.C.C. decided against such action out of concern it would discourage investment in physical infrastructure.
The F.C.C. appears to have made the wrong call. Iliad started piggybacking on France Telecom's wires, but soon began laying wires of its own. In 2002, the United States had the sixth-highest broadband penetration among all O.E.C.D. countries. Last year it was in 15th place. Of 34 industrialized countries, the United States ranks 17th in terms of average download speeds. Among the 31 countries that have very-high-speed broadband access, the United States is more expensive, trailing only Turkey, Israel and Chile.
And a spate of deals between cable companies and Verizon Wireless to cross-sell one another's services does not bode well for competition and investment in the future. Verizon does not plan to expand its FiOS network beyond the 18 million homes it set out to reach six years ago. This suggests a market carve-up is about to take place, with Verizon focusing on wireless broadband and cable companies on wires into the home.
With fewer competitors in the way, broadband's gatekeepers will face less resistance to a strategy of carving special lanes out of the Internet.
Technology, of course, will shape competition and innovation online. Google is wiring Kansas City with fiber. If it extends that experiment, it could become a formidable competitor. Next-generation wireless may bring fast broadband to rural areas where laying fiber is unprofitable. But regulation will be crucial, too.
And right now, regulation appears weak. The F.C.C. has net neutrality rules. But the agency lost one neutrality case against Comcast in 2010, and Verizon is challenging the new rules issued in response to the ruling. The rules, moreover, have loopholes. For instance, they allow broadband providers to allocate portions of their pipes for special ''managed'' services.
Still, the government has a track record of keeping the telecommunications highway open. It sliced the Ma Bell monopoly into Babies, and ensured they carried one another's calls. In the era of dial-up Internet, it ensured that phone companies allowed rival Internet service providers to reach their customers.
The F.C.C. is under siege in Congress -- where the phone and cable companies have unleashed their lobbying might. In March, the House passed a bill to limit the agency's ability to issue new regulations. Members of Congress might remember that government regulation was crucial for the development of the Internet we know today.
Fifty years ago, consumers were allowed to hook up only Bell telephones to their Bell phone lines. But in the 1960s, the F.C.C. and the courts forced the Bells to accept any device that didn't threaten the network. The decision unleashed a torrent of innovation -- including the answering machine, the fax and the first device that allowed us to explore what would become the Internet: the modem.
Innovation online requires an open playing field, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reed Hastings of Netflix finds fault in Comcast's offer of unlimited streaming through the Xbox. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
Verizon does not plan to expand its FiOS network beyond the 18 million homes it set out to reach six years ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B10) CHART: A More Expensive Internet: High prices can be a major obstacle for low-income Americans who want to access the Internet.
 Broadband Internet package price ranges: In U.S. dollars per megabit per second of advertised speed, Sept. 2011 (adjusted to purchasing power parity) (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); BROADBAND (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LOBBYING (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); COMCAST CORP (86%); NETFLIX INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (86%); CCV (NYSE) (86%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: REED HASTINGS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



337 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: A Force in America's Food Revolution

BYLINE: By JACQUES PEPIN

 BODY:
I CAME to America at the end of 1959 and started working at Le Pavillon two days later. That is where I met Craig, who came to write an article on Le Pavillon and Pierre Franey, who was the executive chef. Craig introduced me to Helen McCully, food editor of House Beautiful, and through her I met James Beard. A few months later, through Helen again, I met Julia Child, who was finishing the manuscript for ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking,'' and I had the opportunity to look at it.
That I had met the trinity of cooking -- Julia Child, James Beard and Craig Claiborne -- less than a year after arriving here is testament to how very small the food world was then. Julia and James Beard are still well known, but, unfortunately, the name Craig Claiborne is not as recognizable to foodies or culinary students as it should be. 
Craig started working at The New York Times in 1957, when food was far from having the prominence it does now. In the early 1960s, food was sustenance, and the American culinary landscape was bleak. The food page was usually given to the editor of the women's page to deal with as part of home economics and lifestyle.
But for Craig, writing for The Times was a dream come true. He had always wanted to work there and in the coming years, he would single-handedly create the vocabulary of food criticism and the four-star rating system. He would raise the standing of food writing and change the job of food critic into a respected, powerful and provocative position.
Trained in classical French cooking at the famous Hotel School of Lausanne in Switzerland, he took seriously the business of cooking, eating, going to restaurants and talking about food.
Craig had the extraordinary gift of being able to bring people together, mixing business and pleasure. He brought ethnic cuisine to the readers of The Times: Virginia Lee for Chinese food, Diana Kennedy for Mexican, Marcella Hazan for Italian.
He admired the home cook as much as the professional chef. For a grand picnic on Gardiners Island in 1965, he brought together French chefs -- Pierre Franey of Pavillon fame; Roger Fessaguet, from La Caravelle; Jean Vergnes, from the Colony; Rene Verdon, from the White House, and me -- to prepare a sumptuous banquet for our family and friends, a feast he lavishly covered in The Times. It was the same group of chefs who would cook at my wedding at Craig's house a year later, a celebration that he planned, organized and paid for.
He remains the most influential person in my professional life in America. Against my restrained, structured French training, he had that typical American generosity and openness. A weekend at Craig's house was great fun. The guests would get up at their leisure and make their own breakfasts from eggs, fruit, croissants and cold cuts. It was quite different from what I was used to -- so much more fun and free than the regulated, formal and strict way we used to receive people, even family and friends, in France.
After breakfast, we would go to a local market to select food for the day. Craig was a locavore long before the word existed. We would get onions, potatoes, corn and lettuce fresh from the farm, and we would buy local fish, like striped bass, lobster and clams, all before deciding on a menu.
I have fond memories of cooking with Craig and Pierre Franey in Craig's enormous sun-drenched kitchen at the house in East Hampton. Pierre was an extraordinary chef and the perfect foil for Craig's meticulous formal training. I can still see Pierre and me cooking, drinking wine, relaxing and laughing and Craig at his typewriter, his half-glasses perched on his nose, pummeling us with questions as we cooked: How long in the oven? What size pieces? What temperature? I came to learn from him how to develop recipes. There were always a great many cocktails, wine and singing at our parties, which would extend well into the night.
Craig took reviewing restaurants seriously and agonized over his decisions. I went with him many times, sometimes with Pierre or other chefs, sometimes with guests I didn't know. Craig was always incognito, reserving his table under another name and always paying for the meal. He would get opinions from everyone at the table, especially the professional chefs.
I was amazed at how anxious he was. He worried he would miss something or not be fair. But he was fair above all. There was always something positive in his criticism, something to be learned. He was well aware of how damaging his review could be for a restaurant and, conversely, how beneficial.
To me, Craig was one of the giants in America's cooking revolution and he represented food writing and restaurant reviewing at its best.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULINARY SCHOOLS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (69%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



338 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Democrats Choose Challenger to Run Against Governor in Recall Race

BYLINE: By STEVEN YACCINO

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- Wisconsin Democrats will get a do-over election between Gov. Scott Walker and Tom Barrett when the two face off in a rare recall vote next month.
Mr. Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee, got the nod from his party after a statewide primary on Tuesday, beating a fellow Democrat, Kathleen Falk, a former Dane County executive who had been seen by some as labor's preferred candidate.
The victory sets up a rematch of Mr. Barrett's race against Mr. Walker in 2010, when the governor won by about five percentage points as Republicans took control of the state -- not just in the governor's office but also in both chambers of the Legislature. 
While much of the attention over the past year has focused on the debate over Mr. Walker, the vote on Tuesday underscored one of the steepest challenges for the governor's opposition: namely, that Democrats have, at least until now, failed to coalesce around an alternative. They now have less than a month to make a case to voters before they go back to the polls on June 5 for the recall election.
''This race is not about the past,'' Mr. Barrett said in his victory speech to a crowd of supporters in a hotel ballroom in downtown Milwaukee. ''It is about the future of Wisconsin.''
He added: ''In the next 27 days, I need you like I've never needed you before. But more importantly, this state needs you like it's never needed you before.''
Last year, tens of thousands of protesters swarmed the state capital after Mr. Walker, a Republican in his first term, stripped collective bargaining rights from most of the state's public workers. In the months that followed, critics collected more than 900,000 signatures on recall papers -- almost double the amount needed for a vote.
Five names appeared on Democratic ballots for governor across the state in a hurried recall campaign season that Mr. Barrett compared to ''political speed dating.'' The other candidates were Doug La Follette, the secretary of state; Kathleen Vinehout, a state senator; and Gladys Huber, a Republican-backed candidate who ran on the Democratic side.
Amid concerns that the winner may have problems with a fractured base, the candidates made an effort to attack Mr. Walker more than one another in the final days before the primary.
As many Democrats had expected, the anti-Walker forces began closing ranks around the new nominee on Tuesday night, with quick endorsements from Ms. Falk and Afscme Wisconsin, one of the unions that had supported her. But recent polls and fund-raising totals suggest that the party has little room for distractions in its quest to unseat the well-financed governor.
Since the start of 2011, Mr. Walker has raised more than $25 million. Campaign finance reports released by candidates last week showed that Mr. Walker raised more than $13 million over the past three months alone, dwarfing Mr. Barrett's $831,000 and Ms. Falk's $977,000.
That advantage, however, was less apparent in a poll conducted last month by Marquette University Law School that showed Mr. Walker and Mr. Barrett essentially tied in a general election matchup. Mr. Walker led Ms. Falk 49 percent to 43 percent among likely voters, a six-point advantage that is within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points on each candidate.
Tuesday's vote also decided the Democratic nominees for other recall elections against Wisconsin's lieutenant governor and four state senators.
Before any votes were cast, the primary revealed signs that the focus of the recall election was widening to beyond the union outrage that prompted it. According to a recent jobs report from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, Wisconsin was the only state in the nation to show a ''statistically significant'' decrease in employment, losing 23,900 jobs from March 2011 to March 2012. The Democrats have blamed Mr. Walker for the job losses.
The governor, in a television advertisement, has countered that the state's unemployment rate, about 7 percent, is the lowest it has been since 2008.
Mr. Walker has also faced questions about a criminal investigation into aides and appointees from a period before he was governor, when he was the executive of Milwaukee County.
The governor, who easily won his own primary contest on Tuesday, expressed confidence about the challenge from the Democrats. ''Just as they did in 2010, we believe voters will stand with Scott Walker and his plans to keep Wisconsin moving forward,'' Ciara Matthews, a spokeswoman for Mr. Walker's campaign, said in an e-mail.
To put to rest any remaining concerns about a divided front, Democrats were planning a post-primary event for Wednesday to show their support for the nominee, said Graeme Zielinski, a spokesman for the Wisconsin Democratic Party.
''We have one path to winning this thing,'' he said, ''and it's unity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Barrett greeted supporters in Milwaukee after winning a Democratic primary. He will run against Gov. Scott Walker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); FUNDRAISING (65%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



339 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Reversing Years of Neglect on a Hill Above Nashville

BYLINE: By BOBBY ALLYN

 BODY:
NASHVILLE -- On a bluff overlooking the Cumberland River, the odd collection of trolley barns and old hospital buildings here known as Rolling Mill Hill has been in some stage of redevelopment for the last 14 years.
The recession nearly halted work on the 34-acre site, which has been promoted as a mixed-use community for Nashville's creative class and a revival of a once-neglected section of this city of 600,000.
Now, activity is humming again at Rolling Mill Hill.
The six red-brick trolley barns, which trace their history to the Works Progress Administration, have recently been rehabilitated by the Mathews Company, a local developer, into office and retail spaces with high ceilings of exposed wood and bowed steel trusses. 
The barns' 80,000 square feet will soon be brimming with young professionals. The offices of Emma, an e-mail marketing agency; the local entrepreneur center; and a lengthy list of other start-up companies have signed leases there and are in the process of moving in. Next to the rehabbed barns, the Ryman Lofts, subsidized rental apartments for artists and musicians, are now rising from the ground and are scheduled to open by late fall.
On the site's southern side, former Victorian and Art Deco hospital buildings have been converted to apartments. Nearby are the Metro, a market-rate rental building that opened in 2009, and Nance Place, subsidized housing for residents with annual salaries under $28,000 that opened last summer.
A switchback road connects the northern tier to the southern portion on a hill. The view from there, the highest point in downtown Nashville, takes in a scrap yard and patches of development, but mostly sprawl on the east side of the river. To the north, downtown's church steeples and modest skyscrapers provide a snapshot of a Southern city in transition, still grappling with industrial-era eyesores and more recent suburban sprawl, despite the city's efforts to focus on the downtown core.
There are still about 4.5 acres of undeveloped land on the rolling campus, and there has been talk about luring a hotel and other mixed-use projects there. Already, around $50 million of commercial and residential investment, mostly private, has been poured into the project. An additional $14 million in public money has been spent on environmental cleanup, clearing a greenway and installing underground utilities. Most of that work began under Mayor Bill Purcell, who was elected in 1999 and served until 2007. And some $150 million in commercial and residential investment in the site, which is owned by the city's Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency, is expected in coming years
''Not many places in the world have more than 30 acres of city land available,'' said Mr. Purcell, who pushed for the development and facilitated the transfer of the land to the city agency.
In the 19th century, the site was used as a processing terminal for wheat, corn and lumber, which would go through roller mills and then be carried by steamboats to towns and factories along the river. For a time, the mills earned Nashville the nickname ''Minneapolis of the South,'' but in the 1920s the city's advantageous freight rates ended and the industry slowly faded from Middle Tennessee. Shortly after, the site became the campus of the city's general hospital, which moved in the late 1990s.
Before revitalization began, the only road to the former roller mills was narrow and asphalt, passing a thermal plant that once incinerated trash from hundreds of trucks a day. The plant was decommissioned and razed in 2004.
City planners say Rolling Mill Hill's renaissance is changing the way in which residents perceive the once-neglected area, just a short walk from the city's publicly financed $585 million convention center that is to open next year.
''Downtown has been unfolding for over 40 years,'' said Phil Ryan, who leads the Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency. ''It's now becoming a larger urban place.''
City planners say Rolling Mill Hill's redevelopment will be similar to that of the Gulch, a neighborhood in what was once a derelict industrial area. Now it is a trendy enclave of gleaming condo towers and boutique shops on the western periphery of downtown. ''We're trying to bring together a creative community,'' Mr. Ryan said, and added, ''It will be entrepreneurs interacting with architects and a place where people from all over Tennessee will come for meetings.''
Karl Dean, Nashville's current mayor, agreed, saying the project ''is good for our city, and the exchange of energy and ideas will help move Nashville forward.''
But Rolling Mill Hill's latest iteration has been bedeviled by delays; completion is now expected in about five years. In 2009, three buildings developed as condominiums -- the two hospital structures and a newly built one -- could not make $16 million in payments to a lender and were sold in a foreclosure sale. They are now rentals. And the trolley barns languished for years after Mayor Purcell moved a fleet of city vehicles that were stored there to another site.
The properties were owned by Direct Development of Green Bay, Wis., which abandoned its plans in the credit crisis. Even before the recession, Post Properties, a developer in Atlanta, pulled out of the project after the city rejected the company's proposed economic incentives, as did the Trammell Crow Company of Dallas. And Struever Brothers, Eccles & Rouse of Baltimore backed away from a commitment to the project after a deal to develop a nearby baseball stadium fell apart.
Although the redevelopment has made more progress in recent years, some advocates say they believe that local residents, mostly working-class African-Americans, are being excluded. The median annual income for a single person in the segments surrounding the redevelopment area is about $15,000, said James Fraser, a professor of urban policy and community development at Vanderbilt University who has studied neighborhoods south of downtown.
''It's an effort to make Nashville seem more cosmopolitan, trying to get middle-class people to move back in the city,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''But there's something to be said for having a mix of incomes in a neighborhood as it relates to democracy,'' he said, noting that redevelopment could eventually displace longtime residents.
Nonetheless, the site's rebirth is expected to be a boon to local businesses like Crema, an artisan coffee shop across Hermitage Avenue. Rachel Lehman, the owner, said Crema was barely scraping by in the recession but that business had been brisk as of late, which she attributed to the new residents and new workers in the trolley barns. By the time the trolley barns are fully occupied, Ms. Lehman said, the store will be ''busting at the seams.''
''Customers often say, 'Wow, I never knew this part of Nashville before,' '' Ms. Lehman said. ''But parcel by parcel, it's becoming revived.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The six red-brick trolley barns in Nashville's Rolling Mill Hill section are part of a 34-acre site that is being rehabilitated as a mixed-use community. Some former hospital buildings have been converted to apartments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); SUBURBS (69%); STARTUPS (67%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); EMAIL MARKETING (53%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (52%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

COMPANY: MATHEWS CO (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



340 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: For Connecticut Governor, A Less-Willing Legislature

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
HARTFORD -- In the second hectic and contentious year of Dannel P. Malloy's tenure as governor, Connecticut lawmakers will race the clock on Wednesday to conclude a legislative session characterized by efforts to bridge an unexpected budget deficit, pass Democratic social legislation and address the nation's largest achievement gap between schools in rich and poor neighborhoods.
Just as Governor Malloy's first session proved rocky after unions almost scuttled a deal to close one of the nation's worst deficits, this one has proved vexing as well. He pushed for an education package that drew bitter opposition from traditional Democratic allies in teachers' unions because of tough language on tenure and teacher accountability. 
Still, with a unanimous vote in the House on Tuesday, the General Assembly approved Mr. Malloy's compromise agreement to spend nearly $100 million on improving the state's schools, particularly 25 low-performing city schools, and overhauling the evaluations of teachers.
The package adds 1,000 preschool slots for children from low-income families, institutes a new network to intervene in failing schools, introduces a pilot program to enhance literacy for young students and includes new evaluation measures for teachers that fall short of the sweeping changes he proposed.
''I believe education reform is the civil rights issue of our time,'' Mr. Malloy said Tuesday, welcoming bipartisan support for the bill, ''and once I sign this bill, the table will be set for real and fundamental reform of our public schools.''
The agreement came near the end of a legislative session vividly at odds with the prevailing conservative trends in many other states, prompted by Mr. Malloy's hard-charging -- critics say overbearing -- approach combined with activist Democratic leadership in both houses of the legislature.
A result has been a steady volume of legislation, some of it in measures that have percolated without becoming law for decades. The legislature ended the imposition of the death penalty, approved the medical use of marijuana and ended the state's ban on Sunday liquor sales. It extended collective bargaining rights to a class of new workers and allowed same-day voter registration. Still unclear is the fate of campaign finance disclosure legislation, which would be among the toughest in the nation if passed.
But unlike last year, when Mr. Malloy got almost everything he asked for from the General Assembly, Democratic legislators, all of them up for re-election, pushed back at much of his agenda and some other politically sensitive legislation this time. The governor will be up for re-election in 2014.
The education legislation, which was roundly criticized by teachers' unions, was significantly toned down. The House passed an increase to the minimum wage, but the Senate has not. Legislators seem unlikely to approve an increase in the public financing of elections for the governor's office, sought by Mr. Malloy, that would have raised the grant for the next general election to $9 million, from $6 million.
Still, Democrats said the session was extraordinarily productive.
''Over the course of the last 16 months, including this legislative session, more meaningful change has occurred in Connecticut than occurred in the previous 16 years,'' Mr. Malloy's spokesman, Roy Occhiogrosso, said.
''Governor Malloy and this legislature have jump-started a stagnant economy, stabilized the state's finances and pushed through one of the most far-reaching education reform packages in the nation.''
Republicans say Connecticut remains stuck in a time warp of high spending and big government. Most problematic, they say, is a budget still out of whack a year after Mr. Malloy pushed through record tax increases.
Lawrence Cafero Jr., the House minority leader, said, referring to the budget agreement from last year: ''The governor said it would put the state on fiscally stable ground for years to come. What we found was the revenues he predicted did not come through, the savings he hoped to achieve he did not, and the spending he hoped to control, he couldn't.''
Late Tuesday, the Senate joined the House in passing, largely along party lines, a revised $20.5 billion budget with no tax increases for the fiscal year that begins July 1. It closed what Democrats saw as a $200 million deficit, in part by using more than $70 million meant for transportation and banking for general fund spending.
Republicans said Mr. Malloy and Democratic legislators had underestimated the size of the deficit and resorted to budgetary gimmicks.
''They are taking money out of one pocket to pay for ongoing expenses, something that Governor Malloy criticized'' in previous governors and the Democratic-controlled legislature, Mr. Cafero said. ''It is the height of hypocrisy.''
Other Republicans said voters would be put off by some of the Democratic legislation, including the vote to repeal capital punishment, when the memory of the murders of the Petit family in Cheshire is fresh in voters' minds. (The death penalty still stands for the two men convicted in that case, as well as nine others on death row.)
''Instead of tackling Job 1, the budget shortfall, or even Job 2, creating jobs, the Democrats continued to display their pent-up demand since they last sat in the governor's office for creating more government, more government spending and by relentlessly pushing the liberal agenda,'' said Jerry Labriola Jr., chairman of the Connecticut Republican Party.
But the president pro tem of the Senate, Donald E. Williams, said that the legislature began its business with a special session on jobs in the fall, and that this session included both a diverse array of important topics and a tight focus on education and the state's fiscal issues.
''Compared to previous budgets submitted by Republican governments, this is as good as it gets in times of economic crisis,'' Mr. Williams said.
''We are moving in the right direction in terms of having an honest budget that makes tough decisions -- deep budget cuts, unpopular tax increases last year -- but they put us in a place where Connecticut is better off in terms of its budget than many, many other states.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); TRENDS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CANNABIS (63%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (50%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



341 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: In Blocking Activists, the Fed Protects Poorly Run Banks

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff, a former corporate lawyer, is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
An activist shareholder sought to shake up a money-losing company. It was shaping up to be a typical corporate dogfight - until the Federal Reserve stepped in.
That's what happened recently in the case of First Financial Northwest when a major shareholder, the Stilwell Group, sought to elect two nominees to the board of the savings and loan.
It was not the first time the Federal Reserve had opposed shareholder activism, preferring not to shake things up at badly performing banks. 
First Financial Northwest is a struggling community bank based in Renton, Wash., with more than $1.1 billion in assets. Like many small banks, it did not fare well during the financial crisis, losing about $90 million over the last few years.
In 2010, First Financial was put under special supervision by the federal government and was required to increase its capital, reduce its commercial real estate loan portfolio and enhance its corporate governance. First Financial is now supervised by the Federal Reserve and is required to obtain approval from the government for any change in directors or officers.
In October, First Financial was approached by the Stilwell Group, a New York-based money management firm that had acquired a 7.9 percent stake. First Financial and Stilwell agreed to appoint Spencer L. Schneider, the general counsel of Stilwell, as a director of the bank.
He obtained Federal Reserve clearance to serve, but his tenure was short.
At a Feb. 15 meeting, Mr. Schneider made three demands on the First Financial board. He proposed to ''terminate the director emeritus program,'' which Mr. Schneider claimed paid directors as much as $150,000 a year even after their death for doing ''nothing.'' He also proposed to ''remove the directors' photographs from the executive suite walls'' since the photos rewarded poor past performance and the bank was ''not a country club or an English manor.''
Finally, as a symbol of First Financial's newfound austerity, Mr. Schneider wanted to ''serve only hard candy at the upcoming annual meeting.'' He also protested the board's policy of free iPads for directors.
When the First Financial board refused to accede immediately to his demands, Mr. Schneider resigned, claiming that the board was unwilling to make necessary changes.
Stilwell promptly renominated Mr. Schneider and a second director to the nine-member First Financial board, setting off a proxy fight.
At this point, the Federal Reserve stepped in to block Stilwell.
Under government regulations, an acquisition of ''25 percent of the voting shares'' or ''control'' of a savings and loan holding company is subject to Federal Reserve approval.
Although Stilwell was seeking only two of nine board seats, or 22 percent of the board - and those two were unlikely to have any kind control over it - the regulator forced Stilwell to reduce the number of its nominees to one.
The Fed has also recently injected itself into a shareholder activist campaign against Cardinal Bankshares, a Virginia-based bank with about $250 million in assets. Schaller Equity Partners owns 9.8 percent of the bank and initially proposed to fill five of six director seats at the company's May 22 annual meeting.
Cardinal Bankshares is regulated as a bank holding company. The Fed claimed that if Schaller elected a majority of Cardinal Bankshare's directors, then Schaller would also become subject to regulation as a bank holding company, a death knell for the operation of the firm. The regulator was acting under a 2008 policy that states that any shareholder having more than one board seat on a bank potentially has a controlling interest, making it subject to this regulation.
Schaller has subsequently dropped the number of its nominees to three to placate the Fed. Even so, the regulator has taken more steps to ensure that Schaller does not have control over these nominees, claiming that even this number of directors could still make Schaller a bank holding company. The directors are now executing passivity agreements that will limit their ability to coordinate activity with Schaller.
The Fed's position here is bound to raise questions not just among those who favor shareholder activism as an instrument of good corporate governance. The regulator is acting directly to limit shareholder efforts to oust entrenched bank directors intended to improve the operation of banks.
The proxy advisory service Institutional Shareholder Services first raised an alarm about the Fed's conduct. In a note to its clients, I.S.S. argued that ''by limiting a dissident slate through regulatory fiat, rather than allowing shareholders to do the winnowing, regulators hobble one of the more powerful corrective mechanisms of capital markets, and insist instead that bank shareholders stick with the devil they know.''
In other words, the Fed appears to prefer the management of poorly performing banks over those who want to run the banks' operations better. To accomplish this, it is taking a bureaucratic view of its regulations, claiming in the case of First Financial that two of nine directors constitute control of the bank when it obviously doesn't. Under Fed policies, even trying to start a proxy contest to force management change can subject a shareholder to bank holding company regulations.
The Fed's position is surprising. You might think that after the financial crisis, it would want to move quickly to oust bad bank managers and shape up the banks. Shareholder activists do just this for a living.
Instead, the Fed is blocking shareholders from monitoring and changing banks, leaving only regulators with the ability to effect change. That hasn't worked out well in the past.
Fed officials did not respond to requests for comment, but the central bank has previously stated that these policies were established to ensure those shareholders who reap the benefits of bank ownership also share in the responsibilities of oversight and support.
This is all a matter of balance, however. I understand the argument that shareholder activists can force banks to take short-term actions that are not in the best interests of the company, but regulators will still be there to act in such a case. This should be weighed against the benefits of shareholder activism.
Most unsettling is that the Fed's actions send a message to all banks that they are safe from the activists, and a warning to shareholder activists not to press banks too much. It relieves all banks from the fear of having to answer fully to shareholders.
The Fed is quite busy these days, but perhaps it should take the time to reconsider its policies on shareholder activism. After all we've gone through during the financial crisis, perhaps protecting poorly performing banks against change isn't the best idea.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (71%); COMMUNITY BANKS (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (53%)

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (92%); FIRST FINANCIAL NORTHWEST INC (58%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (92%); FFNW (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



342 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Regulator Predicts U.S. Will Soon Take Part in Chinese Inspections of Auditors

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The chairman of the United States regulator that inspects audit firms -- an agency that has been frustrated by its inability to review audits of Chinese companies that turned out to be frauds -- said Tuesday that he expected that his staff would soon be able to sit in on Chinese inspections of auditors. 
''We ought to be able to observe the inspections they conduct in the late summer or fall, and certainly by the end of the year,'' said James R. Doty, the chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, in an interview after he returned from China. He was a member of the United States delegation at the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue.
American law requires that the accounting oversight board inspect all auditing firms that certify the books of companies whose securities trade in public markets in the United States, but it has been unable to do that in many countries, including China.
Mr. Doty said the board had a number of inspectors who spoke and read Chinese and could observe such inspections. He said the Chinese had suggested that the Americans observe the inspections and that he hoped that would lead to joint inspections, as required under American law.
A year ago, the joint statement following the U.S.-China dialogue said: ''The United States and China welcome continued dialogue between the bilateral competent authorities on the oversight of accounting firms providing audit services for public companies in the two countries, so as to enhance mutual trust and strive to reach agreement on cross-border oversight cooperation. Both countries agree to make joint efforts to accelerate the process.''
Talks were held in the aftermath, but no agreement was announced. Subsequently, a dispute erupted over efforts by the Securities and Exchange Commission to subpoena work papers from a Chinese affiliate of Deloitte, one of the Big Four accounting groups.
The papers related to Deloitte's audit of a fraudulent Chinese company that had been listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The auditor uncovered the fraud, which it had missed in earlier years. Deloitte is resisting the subpoena, saying it is barred by Chinese law from complying.
The statement after this year's meeting was silent on the issue of accounting oversight, although it listed Mr. Doty as among the delegates from the United States. His comments were made after he was asked if any progress had been made.
He said there were ''very substantive and productive discussions'' that he expected to lead to the observations of the Chinese inspections.
Mr. Doty said he did not expect the board to comment on the substance of any inspections it observed.
The accounting oversight board is an independent group whose members are appointed by the S.E.C. It was established by the Sarbanes-Oxley law in 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (93%); AUDITS (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); SUBPOENAS (62%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (85%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



343 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: A Call for Tax Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While Occupy Wall Street and the Buffett tax focus on the top 1 percent, many more Americans should expect to pay additional taxes regardless of who becomes our next president. When the economy recovers sufficiently, Congress must consider eliminating the 2001 and 2003 Bush tax cuts for most taxpayers and other tax breaks. 
Raising taxes only on the top 3 percent or so -- couples with $250,000 or more of income, and others with more than $200,000, as President Obama advocates -- yields far too little revenue to sustain basic government programs most Americans embrace and to bring down the nation's unsustainable deficits. Extending the Bush tax cuts to the bottom 97 percent would likely reduce revenues by more than $2 trillion in just 10 years.
Any additional income taxes should come from fundamental tax reform. With interest deductions on up to $1 million of home mortgage loans, a free pass on unlimited health insurance paid at work and myriad other tax breaks, our current system shelters at least half of all individual income from income tax -- $6 trillion or so last year. Consequently, the tax liabilities of the bottom 97 percent, as well as the top 3 percent, too often depend on their ability to avoid taxes.
By addressing tax breaks that make neither social nor economic sense, Congress would advance a basic tenet of tax fairness: equals should pay equally. For example, families of equal size with equal incomes would generally pay the same amount. People who previously benefited disproportionately from tax breaks would pay disproportionately more of any additional taxes. And with far more income to tax, Congress could collect more revenue yet lower tax rates on wages and salaries, and tax unearned and earned income at the same rates.
Best of all, this simpler, fairer system would promote economic growth. Yes, fundamental tax reform would be good for America.
JOHN O. FOX Amherst, Mass., May 8, 2012
The writer is a former tax lawyer and is updating his 2008 book ''10 Tax Questions the Candidates Don't Want You to Ask.''
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond to this letter for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Mr. Fox's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKE MCQUADE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PUBLISHING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); LAWYERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



344 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: A Lot Like Polo, Only Faster and With Beer

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

 BODY:
KIGALI, Rwanda -- Game day. Sam Dargan, 29, a four-year veteran of the nascent sport known as moto-polo, awoke early -- or relatively early, for a Saturday in East Africa -- and began the traditional routine.
Fire up the stoves; let the chapati, banana and beans stew nicely. Wrap the mallet; duct tape works best. Check with your partner; be sure to arrive on time. Jon Stever, a teammate from Texas, is coming over with the truck and the pig to roast after the game. And do not forget the beer. 
Motorcycle polo has only a few dozen dedicated practitioners here, but they are convinced the sport is destined for widespread popularity. Because who can resist an activity that combines single-cylinder engines, mallets and beer?
It is similar to traditional polo, except it was born out of this country's distinctive palette of characters, customs and resources.
Instead of horses, of which there are few in Rwanda, players drive and ride motorcycles, of which there are many. Along the slick roads here, in Rwanda's capital, they are commonly used as taxis, and a growing number of young Rwandan motorcyclists turn up at competitions to show off and practice their skills.
The game has few rules. There are five players a team, opposing goals and 15-minute quarters with a ''beer's worth'' break in between. The game is played at a frenzy -- drivers goose the bikes to 45 miles per hour -- as players jab and motorcycles fall. Spectators crowd as arguments ensue.
''I play with no fear,'' said Chameleon Ngirimana, widely regarded as one of the sport's best players.
The game has spread to neighboring Uganda, and a team from Rwanda is scheduled to play there.
On a sunny Saturday at the field by the airport in Kigali, scores gathered to watch a recent match, a doubleheader, beginning with a rivalry between North and South United States.
A formal schedule for moto-polo matches in Rwanda has not been established, and this one had the feel of a picnic, with spectators splayed on hoods and tops of automobiles, while cold beers were sold out back.
Moto-polo's top players and pioneers assembled on the field -- Dargan, Stever, Timote Niyomugabo, Margaret Vernon, Ngirimana -- settling on a steely regiment of TVS 125cc road bikes. Some were dressed to the nines, in comedic costumes or high fashion.
The referee waded out to midfield, carrying the signature banana-leaf ball, as a crowd of expatriates and Africans gathered near the sidelines and on a nearby hill. Drivers revved their engines. Then the ball was dropped.
Dargan, from South Carolina, and his South teammate Matt Smith, from Texas, said they created moto-polo in the summer of 2008. Rwanda, a tiny land of sun-kissed hills, is conducive to such recreational innovation.
As Smith describes it, he and Dargan, who runs a solar power business here, had hired a motorcycle-taxi that day for the receiver to ride on when they had the idea.
''I was explaining to him donkey basketball, something that you play where I am from,'' said Smith, who works in Rwanda's coffee industry. ''We were thinking donkey polo, but then we realized there are no donkeys in Rwanda.''
Smith and Dargan began doing research and found a lost trove of history. A newspaper article from 1912 described a sport called auto-polo that was played across the United States as automobiles became popular. Variations bubbled up for several decades.
''Then there is no trace,'' Smith said, ''for 60, 70 years.''
The first moto-polo match in Kigali was filmed and posted on YouTube in 2008.
''Very interesting, very amazing, very surprising,'' said Augustin Bizimungu, 54, a pedestrian passing atop a hill overlooking the soccer field, where the South had taken a 3-1 lead. ''I didn't know people can play this game.''
The sport is evolving. Official statistics are not tabulated. Rules have never been written and are generally thought to be limited to these: motorcyclists cannot use their feet to kick the ball, and players cannot stick objects into motorcycle wheels -- ''the Indiana Jones rule,'' Stever said.
''It's never actually happened, but it's the first rule we came up with,'' he said.
East Africa is a rising economic and political bloc, and expatriates and East Africans alike travel frequently around the region. Despite the small pool of players in Rwanda, the game could spread. When one of the original moto-polo players moved to Kampala, the capital of Uganda some 230 miles away, he took the sport with him.
The first match in Uganda, held last year, also served as a fund-raiser to help pay the legal fees of Ugandan women sexually trafficked to Iraq.
Back in Rwanda, the drivers are paid $20 for an hourlong game in a country where the average daily income is a little more than $3, according to the World Factbook, a Central Intelligence Agency publication. All damages to motorcycles sustained during matches are paid for by the organizers.
''I don't know how I can tell you, but this game is so fun,'' Ngirimana said during a break after the third quarter. ''First, we came for the money; now we just like it.''
Local residents typically drive the motorcycles, and expatriates ride on back wielding mallets and scoring goals. The ones in control of the machine are considered more important to a winning team.
''Only a few can take the ball all the way downfield,'' said Stever, who added that he would arm-wrestle someone for the chance to ride with Ngirimana. ''He's just superaggressive.''
So is Dargan, who wound up his mallet, with his motorcycle facing the opposite direction, to score an around-the-back goal just as time expired, giving him a hat trick. South won, 7-2. Beer time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Moto-polo is fast-paced, with drivers revving their motorcycles to 45 miles per hour as players jab at the ball. ''I play with no fear,'' said Chameleon Ngirimana, one of the sport's best players.
 A referee carried moto-polo's banana-leaf ball, top, onto the playing field. In an unusual concession to safety, players wear helmets. A slide show on the sport can be seen at nytimes.com/sports. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLO (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ATHLETES (78%); BEER & ALE (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (90%) RWANDA (91%); EASTERN AFRICA (90%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); UGANDA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



345 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Among City's Soviet Immigrants, An Affinity for Republicans

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
To many Russian and Ukrainian immigrants, the cornucopia in the shops along Brighton Beach Avenue -- pyramids of oranges, heaps of Kirby cucumbers, bushels of tomatoes with their vines still attached and a variety of fish, sausages and pastries -- seems like an exuberant rebuke of the meager produce that was available to them when they lived in the Soviet Union.
This contrast helps explain a striking political anomaly: immigrants from the former Soviet Union are far more apt to vote for Republicans than are most New Yorkers, who often drink in Democratic Party allegiance with their mothers' milk and are four times as likely to register as Democrats than as Republicans.
Even as New York is expected to overwhelmingly support the re-election of President Obama this fall, his presumptive Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, and other down-ticket Republicans can expect considerable support from enclaves of Russian speakers, like those in the Brighton Beach, Manhattan Beach and Sheepshead Bay neighborhoods of southern Brooklyn. 
These areas favored Senator John McCain by roughly 55 percent to 45 percent in the 2008 presidential contest, while New Yorkers over all preferred Mr. Obama three to one. Since then, Russian speakers have helped the Republican candidates in three recent local elections: those involving Representatives Bob Turner and Michael G. Grimm, both of whom won, and David Storobin, a State Senate candidate who held a slim lead initially in a special election in March but has not been declared the winner because some ballots are still being challenged in court.
One reason these voters tend to support Republicans is that they see them as more ardent warriors against the kind of big-government, business-stifling programs that soured their lives in the Soviet Union. Their conservative stances on issues like taxes and Israel seem to outweigh their more liberal views on social issues like abortion.
Tatiana Varzar came to the United States in 1979, at age 21, from the Ukrainian seaport of Odessa. She worked as a manicurist and then opened a small restaurant on the boardwalk that grew into Tatiana Restaurant, a spacious magnet for foodies who like a whiff of salt air and a sea view with their pirogen. Today it is a destination for high-powered Russians, like some of the executives who own the Brooklyn Nets.
''I am what I am because of capitalism,'' Ms. Varzar said, ''and Republicans are more capitalistic.''
Anatoly Alter immigrated from Kiev, Ukraine, in 1978, worked as a machine operator in Manhattan's fur district and now owns one of the fur emporiums on Brighton Beach Avenue, a shop lush with mink, sable and ermine coats. In his view, Democrats like Mr. Obama have introduced ''a socialist mentality,'' which is why he prefers Republicans. ''Too many people want to rely on free money and socialist institutions, and they want businessmen to pay for it,'' Mr. Alter said.
Some scholars likened the attitudes of Soviet immigrants to those of the Vietnamese boat people who fled their homeland's Communist government and of the Cuban refugees who fled the government of Fidel Castro, both of whom took a more conservative tack in the United States than the members of most immigrant groups.
''Having been seared by statism, they see Democrats as drifting toward statism and see that as dangerous for themselves and for the country,'' said Fred Siegel, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute's Center for State and Local Leadership.
Support for Israel is another motivator. The majority of the 350,000 Soviet immigrants in New York City are Jewish, culturally if not in practice; scholars estimate the number as between 70 percent and 90 percent. Many Russian speakers have relatives and friends in Israel, where their population has also exerted a rightward push on national politics, and they tend to reward Republicans, whom they view as more unswerving defenders of that nation.
Another inspiration for their conservatism, scholars and political professionals say, is the legacy of President Ronald Reagan. Kalman Yeger, a campaign manager for Lewis A. Fidler, a city councilman and Mr. Storobin's Democratic opponent in the State Senate race, said many Soviet immigrants never lost their gratitude to Reagan for his role in the collapse of Communism in the Soviet Union. His 1987 exhortation to Mikhail Gorbachev that he tear down the Berlin Wall still flutters hearts in Brighton Beach.
''The Republican Party was the party that brought them out of despair,'' Mr. Yeger said.
As with any demographic group, Soviet immigrants are not monolithic. They will largely support veteran Democratic officeholders, like Senator Charles E. Schumer, whom they see as having funneled government money to their communities or who have campaigned heavily in Russian areas. And they tend to support Russian-speaking candidates from either party when they run against non-Russian speakers, which partly explains why Mr. Storobin got an estimated 60 percent of the Russian vote against Mr. Fidler, said Ari Kagan, a Russian-language journalist.
Given the importance of primaries in this overwhelmingly Democratic city, Soviet immigrants may register as Democrats in roughly the same numbers as they do as Republicans, political professionals say. In fact, the Russians of southern Brooklyn may prove influential in the Democratic Congressional primary battle between Hakeem Jeffries, a moderate state assemblyman, and Charles Barron, a city councilman who has criticized Israel's policies toward the Palestinians.
Still, they are far more likely than most New Yorkers, even immigrant New Yorkers, to support Republican candidates. Soviet immigrants make up almost one-third of the 27th State Senate district, which includes parts of Brighton Beach, Coney Island, Manhattan Beach, Mill Basin and Sheepshead Bay and voted 55 percent for Senator McCain in 2008 -- the second-highest proportion of the state's 62 senatorial districts, said David Simpson, a spokesman for Mr. Storobin.
''They are not your average New York City voter,'' Mr. Simpson said.
Of course, the Soviet immigrants in New York are, in part, self-selected, having come to the United States because they were disenchanted with Communism, said Philip Kasinitz, a sociologist at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
Ruslan Pelin, 40, a software developer who left Moldova and lives in Westchester County, said those who preferred state-run economies chose to immigrate to ''more socialist societies.''
''Russians who immigrated to the U.S. are looking for and believing in core or true capitalist ideals,'' Mr. Pelin said. ''Otherwise they would go to Scandinavian or European countries, or to Canada.''
Assemblyman Alec Brook-Krasny, a Democrat and the first Soviet immigrant to win elective office in New York, said that despite the antipathy many Russian immigrants expressed toward state programs, a large number of his compatriots worked in hospitals, nursing homes and social-service agencies that received government financing, and that elderly Russians in particular were beneficiaries of those programs. But the local businessmen who profit from consumption by those wage earners and public-benefit recipients do not understand the link, he said: they simply want low taxes and believe ''the less government, the better.''
Mr. Brook-Krasny said he believed that younger Russian speakers and those who had educated themselves in American politics would ultimately move toward the Democrats.
''In my opinion,'' he said, ''the more you know, the more liberal you become.''
But people like Arkadiy Fridman, 54, who publishes Citizens, a monthly, Russian-flavored magazine with a circulation of 53,000 that has endorsed Mr. Romney in the presidential contest this year, disagreed.
''I grew up under Communism; I know what it's like,'' said Mr. Fridman, who also runs a child-care center on Staten Island. He said he believed too much government involvement in the economy would lead to an economic crash, adding, ''The Russian government took money from the people and waste it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brighton Beach Avenue is reflected in the window of Classic Furs. The owner, Anatoly Alter, below, comes from Ukraine and tends to vote Republican.
 MR. ALTER, who immigrated from Kiev in 1978. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FUR APPAREL STORES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (75%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); MICHAEL GRIMM (55%); BOB TURNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UKRAINE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



346 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Profit Grows 21% at Disney on Cable TV Gains and a Surge in Resorts Business

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - Climbing ad sales and subscription fees at ESPN and cable channels like ABC Family helped the Walt Disney Company increase its quarterly profit by 21 percent from a year earlier, to $1.14 billion.
Disney's financial results, reported on Tuesday afternoon, also carried an optimistic message about consumer confidence from its sprawling theme park operation - a sharp contrast to last week's downbeat job growth and retail sales reports. Operating income at Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, watched as a barometer of the broader economy, surged 53 percent, to $222 million.
Reasons for that division's growth include improved margins and higher guest spending on hotel rooms and food at Walt Disney World in Florida and Disneyland in California. Attendance at Disney's North American parks increased 7 percent and per-capita spending increased 5 percent. Attendance and spending also increased at Disney's parks in Hong Kong and Tokyo. 
James A. Rasulo, Disney's chief financial officer, speaking in a conference call to analysts on Tuesday, said the Florida and California resorts were seeing ''a big pickup'' in interest from local residents and annual passholders.
Still, Disney was not firing on every cylinder in the three months that ended March 31. The company's movie studio swung to a loss of $84 million (compared with operating income of $77 million in the same period a year before) because of a $200 million write-down tied to ''John Carter.'' The science fiction epic took in $271 million at the global box office, or less than half of what Disney needed to cover the film's exorbitant production and marketing costs.
Losses also mounted at the entertainment giant's interactive division, which is home to Disney.com (undergoing yet another overhaul) and Playdom, a maker of simple online games. Although Disney appears to be making progress in turning around the unit, interactive media lost $70 million in the recent quarter, the second in Disney's fiscal year, as the company continues to rework its approach to video games; Disney's losses in interactive media total $1.19 billion since 2008.
Over all, Disney reported earnings per share of 58 cents for the quarter, up 18 percent from 49 cents a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings per share of 56 cents. Revenue rose 6 percent, to $9.6 billion.
Earnings per share for the recent quarter exclude a restructuring and impairment charge of $38 million as well as a $184 million noncash gain related to the completion of Disney's takeover of UTV Software, a fast-growing entertainment conglomerate in Mumbai.
Disney on Tuesday showcased a television empire experiencing rare across-the-board health; operating income at the TV division increased 13 percent, to $1.7 billion. The company's cable offerings - ESPN, Disney Channel, ABC Family, Disney XD - each had climbing ratings, increased ad sales or both. Disney's local TV stations and ABC broadcast network saw a 37 percent spike in operating income largely because of lower programming costs and higher ad revenue.
The strength of Disney's television portfolio sets it apart from most of its media rivals. Time Warner, Comcast and Viacom each reported climbing ad sales and subscriber fees last week as part of their quarterly financial results, but each is battling at least one big TV fire. Time Warner's TNT has suffered steep viewer erosion; Comcast's NBC network remains in the ratings basement; ratings at Viacom's Nickelodeon have recently plunged 20 percent.
Disney's chairman and chief executive,Robert A. Iger, in the conference call, sought to underscore the health of ESPN, which is by far the largest contributor to Disney's overall profitability. Some analysts have been fretful about escalating programming costs at ESPN and its continued ability to grow by raising subscriber fees higher and higher.
Mr. Iger called ESPN ''quite well positioned to remain the pre-eminent sports brand,'' noting that it holds long-term contracts with the National Football League and two pre-eminent college sports conferences, the SEC and Pac-12, among others. Disney has also secured a decadelong new carriage agreement with Comcast. As part of the Comcast deal, completed in January, WatchESPN, an app that lets viewers watch sports on computers, mobile phones and tablets, is now available to 40 million subscribers.
Of course, some crowing was in order after Disney's release of ''Marvel's The Avengers,'' a superhero movie that took in $207.4 million last weekend in North America, breaking a record for the biggest opening weekend of all time. Mr. Iger said Avengers-related merchandise sales - particularly for the Incredible Hulk - had been ''very strong,'' with some retailers experiencing shortages.
''It's a great illustration of why we like Marvel so much,'' Mr. Iger said. (Disney bought Marvel Entertainment in 2009 for about $4 billion.) ''Yes, we are in development on a sequel.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert A. Iger, right, the chief of Disney, with Mariah Carey and Thomas O. Staggs, parks and resorts chairman, in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RESORTS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); FILM (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); COMPUTER GAMES (62%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (62%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); ESPN INC (85%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (84%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%); DISNEY INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP (58%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (56%); UTV SOFTWARE COMMUNICATIONS LTD (50%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (85%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (50%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (58%); MARIAH CAREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); HONG KONG (77%); INDIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



347 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Indians Host Clinton While Also Wooing Iran

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Gardiner Harris and Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Admittedly, the timing was awkward. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton arrived in New Delhi this week after declaring that India should reduce imports of Iranian oil and comply with Western sanctions. Yet across town, India and Iran were trying to figure out ways to do business together.
In the main ballroom of a five-star hotel, an Iranian trade delegation met with Indian exporters, exchanging cards, sipping tea and nibbling on cookies. The Iranians met one Indian trade group on Monday, another on Tuesday and had more meetings planned in the country's financial capital, Mumbai -- a business courtship seemingly in open defiance of Mrs. Clinton's hard line.
''I am sure the future of India-Iran trade is very good,'' said Yahya Al Eshagh, president of the Tehran Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Mines and the leader of the Iranian delegation. 
No doubt, this week's diplomatic choreography -- with the Americans on one side of the capital and the Iranians on the other -- could easily have been interpreted as a deliberate provocation at a moment when the once-shiny partnership between India and the United States seems to have dulled. But if the scheduling was poorly planned, the situation actually provided an illuminating window into the realpolitik of Iranian sanctions and of how the United States and India, as well as China, are all trying to achieve their divergent goals.
The Obama administration, in trying to squeeze Iran by choking off foreign currency that might be used for its nuclear program, is pressuring Iran's oil customers to reduce imports sharply or face punitive sanctions as soon as next month. Earlier this year, Mrs. Clinton announced exemptions for Japan and 10 European nations but provided no such waiver to India and China, the biggest importers of Iranian crude and the rising powers of Asia.
China and India had already rejected the threat of sanctions and vowed to act in their national interests. The Obama administration called on both countries to make significant reductions of imports. But behind the scenes, officials from all three countries were exploring ways to reduce Iranian oil exports while engineering workaround mechanisms so that India and China could pay for the oil they do buy. Indeed, both countries now have arrangements to buy Iranian oil in their domestic currencies -- rather than the dollar -- that could increase their exports to Iran and also make Iranian oil cheaper.
''It is a lot more complicated with India and China than with Japan or South Korea,'' said Valerie Lincy, executive director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, which tracks Iran's nuclear program. ''The economies are structured differently, the amount of oil they are importing from Iran is different and the geopolitics are different.''
The Obama administration, which has courted India as a geopolitical partner, recognizes that India has its own interests to defend: Indian leaders want to maintain good relations with Washington, and avoid crippling sanctions, yet India is heavily dependent on foreign oil, meaning that drastic reductions could damage an already wobbling Indian economy.
Moreover, Indian politicians are loath to appear to be doing the bidding of Washington, even if quietly they are working to comply. Analysts say the Indian government has ordered domestic refineries to reduce imports of Iranian oil by more than 15 percent.
''India is clearly making an effort to reduce its dependence on Iran, and this is recognized by the U.S.,'' said Harsh V. Pant, an India specialist at King's College in London, in an e-mail. ''But domestically, the Indian government cannot be seen to be buckling under any sort of U.S. pressure. So there is a lot of talk of expanding trade ties with Iran.''
Mrs. Clinton's visit to India was the last stop in an Asian tour that began in China. Her agenda in China was overtaken by the plight of the blind dissident Chen Guangcheng, but Mrs. Clinton also spoke to Chinese leaders about their progress on reducing oil purchases from Iran.
In New Delhi, Mrs. Clinton discussed Iran and other issues with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, while also meeting with Sonia Gandhi, president of the governing Indian National Congress Party. On Tuesday, she used a brief news conference to praise India as ''a strong partner,'' adding that India and the United States share a common goal of preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.
''We commend India for the steps its refineries are taking to reduce its dependence on imports from Iran,'' she said. ''And we have been consulting with India, and working with them on some areas on alternative sources of supply. There's no doubt that India and the United States are after the same goal.''
India's external affairs minister, S. M. Krishna, appearing with Mrs. Clinton, portrayed India as acting in its own self-interest, while noting that Iran and India have longstanding cultural, economic and religious ties that cannot be reduced to the single issue of oil.
''It is natural for us to try and diversify our imports of oil and gas to meet the objective of energy security,'' Mr. Krishna said.
Even as India reduces its oil imports from Iran, officials have been trying to figure out how to pay for its remaining Iranian oil purchases. Banking restrictions now make normal transactions with Iran almost impossible. This is why the Iranian trade delegation is in town: Iran has agreed to accept payment for 45 percent of oil sales to India in rupees, the Indian currency, much of which will be used to buy Indian exports.
Mrs. Clinton never mentioned the presence of the Iranian delegation, nor the rupee payment system, yet American officials do not seem to mind. Mark Dubowitz, an Iran specialist in Washington, said a primary purpose of sanctions is to starve Iran of the dollars and euros it needs to finance the country's nuclear program. In the past, India paid for most of its oil purchases in dollars; under the new arrangement, India will buy nearly half its Iranian oil in rupees, which are not a fully convertible currency.
''This rupee account is very helpful,'' said Mr. Dubowitz, executive director of Foundation for Defense of Democracies. ''They can't convert rupees into dollars or euros. They can't repatriate rupees back to Iran. So the only thing they can do is buy Indian goods.''
At almost precisely the moment on Tuesday that Mrs. Clinton was speaking at her news conference, the Iranian trade delegation was a few miles away, in a basement conference hall of one of the city's most prominent cultural centers, watching a slide show on Indian exports, including photos of Indian rice, tractors, auto spare parts, pharmaceuticals and more.
''We are very keen to work with you,'' said Anil K. Agarwal, a businessman and officer with the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India.
In fact, the new payment arrangement for oil may help India reduce its enormous trade imbalance with Iran. Last year, India spent $988 million on Iranian imports, mostly on oil, more than 10 times the $91 million in goods that India exported to Iran.
Iranian leaders deny that they are developing nuclear weapons and say their nuclear program is for the peaceful development of energy. Mr. Eshagh, the leader of the Iranian delegation, never directly mentioned the sanctions, nor the fact that Mrs. Clinton was in town. But he did allude to ''certain circumstances'' and ''some problems'' that made trade more complicated. Still, he struck an upbeat tone.
''There is a vast potential for exports and imports between the two countries,'' Mr. Eshagh told the audience, speaking through an interpreter. ''We feel there is no difficulty regarding goods and their prices.''
It remains to be seen how extensively, or effectively, the new rupee payment system will be used. American officials will also be watching to ensure that no goods that are banned under the sanctions are exported to Iran under the system. Wheat, rice and pharmaceuticals are currently outside the sanctions, but sales of certain technologies, for example, are a cause of concern.
The question now is whether India has made the ''significant reductions'' required for exemptions. Indian officials believe they have now met the American demand, and many analysts expect the Obama administration officials to grant an exemption during a high-level Strategic Dialogue between the two countries next month in Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Indian opposition leader Sushma Swaraj met in New Delhi on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFA QURAISHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Yahya Al Eshagh, third from left, led an Iranian group courting businesses in New Delhi, defying Mrs. Clinton's hard line. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAJJAD HUSSAIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (95%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



348 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, A Dwindling Of Options

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER and JACK EWING

 BODY:
As voters across Europe call for fewer government cutbacks and more spending on public programs, investors are asking a simple question: How would it be paid for?
The option of raising money through bond sales appears to be shrinking as investors worry about the ability of euro zone nations to repay their loans. Attention has shifted to the European Central Bank, which could use its deep pockets to issue more inexpensive loans to commercial banks, but has shown no inclination to do so yet. And Germany remains unwilling to let the rest of the euro zone trade on its good name by issuing debt jointly.
''It's very easy to abandon austerity measures because they are painful things to do,'' said Otis Casey, the head of fixed-income research at Markit. ''It is much tougher to figure out how to grow economies.'' 
Investors sent stocks tumbling around the world on Tuesday on fears that an austerity backlash in Greece could lead to its exit from the euro zone, but also on broader worries that other euro zone governments may not find a way to balance the conflicting demands of voters and investors.
While the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in the United States fell 0.4 percent, European indexes dropped more sharply, with the French CAC 40 index ending Tuesday down 2.8 percent.
Spooked investors pushed up the borrowing costs for Italy, Spain and France, while the cost of insurance on the debt of those countries also climbed.
The situation in Europe represents a conundrum for investors who generally recognize that the cuts that have been made in recent months by countries like Italy, Spain and Greece have caused their economies to shrink.
More government spending could stimulate growth on a Continent that has been slipping further into recession. But Italy and Spain have already largely lost the confidence of bond investors around the world. Since yields on bonds issued by both countries spiked late last year, most new bonds have been purchased by domestic banks with funding from the European Central Bank's two rounds of inexpensive, three-year loans to commercial banks, which significantly eased pressure in recent months.
Banks in Italy raised their holding of Italian bonds by 54 billion euros ($70 billion), according to an analysis by Bruegel, while Spanish banks raised their holdings of Spanish bonds by 68 billion euro ($89 billion). Private investors, in turn, took advantage of the opportunity to dump their holdings of the same bonds.
In France, investors are trying to divine the intent of the socialist party leader, Francois Hollande, who won the presidential election on Sunday by campaigning against budget cuts and promising to hire more teachers and raise taxes on the wealthy in the pursuit of growth.
Foreign investors, who are still an important source of funding for the French bond market, are closely watching to see whether Mr. Hollande hews more closely to his more strident campaign rhetoric or to an official platform that actually called for cuts to France's deficit, just more slowly than had been planned.
''He needs to realize that he has very limited room to maneuver,'' said Jurgen Odenius, the chief economist at the fixed-income division of Prudential. ''If he goes out of his room to maneuver, the markets will push back.''
Beyond France, Mr. Hollande has advocated for a revision to the European fiscal compact, which would move the countries toward balanced budgets and less debt. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has so far expressed opposition to any changes in the compact, but many regional experts say they think she will have to bend, even if only to provide symbolic acknowledgment of the popular anger at austerity.
The shift in the debate was evident in comments this week from the head of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, who said that governments should not increase austerity in response to slower goals, even if it means missing their debt-reduction goals.
Dennis Snower, president of the Institute for World Economics in Kiel, Germany, argues that Spain and most European countries could still tap financial markets for more money if they adopted constitutional pledges to run budget surpluses in good times.
The pledge would have to be written in stone, he said. Mr. Snower argued that one reason German borrowing costs are near record lows is because the country has already adopted such a constitutional amendment.
''With the exception of Greece, it would work for everyone,'' Mr. Snower argued. But he is skeptical that political leaders would adopt truly binding debt limits. ''Politicians like to keep the fiscal levers in their hands come election time,'' he said.
Any short-term remedies are likely to come from European-wide organizations. There has been talk of using the European bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to directly recapitalize weak banks. That would help Spain, for example, by removing the risk that its hard-pressed taxpayers would have to finance a huge bank bailout.
Such a plan would face political obstacles. Germany and other wealthier countries continue to insist that governments should take responsibility for their domestic banks. In addition, even afflicted countries like Spain may be reluctant to cede control of their financial institutions.
Absent private investors and a recalcitrant Germany, the only other obvious source of cash is the European Central Bank. Its president, Mario Draghi, has been noncommittal on whether the bank would issue another round of cheap loans to banks.
The E.C.B. could also resume buying government bonds on the open market to prop up prices, or cut the benchmark interest rate below 1 percent, which is already a record low.
But the bank is likely to take these steps only if the situation becomes more dire, not in order to help Italy, Spain and France do more spending.
''They can finance one or two projects, but that is not going to change the bottom line,'' said Jose Wynne, head of North American foreign exchange strategy at Barclays in New York. ''It would be mostly symbolic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stock traders on Monday in Paris. Investors will be watching closely to see what Francois Hollande's victory in the presidential election will mean for austerity measures and the markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURENT CIPRIANI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); EURO ZONE (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); EURO (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (54%) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (93%); GREECE (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



349 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Senate Republicans Block Bill to Avert Rise in Student Loan Rate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Republicans on Tuesday blocked consideration of a Democratic bill to prevent the doubling of some student loan interest rates, leaving the legislation in limbo less than two months before rates on subsidized federal loans are set to shoot upward.
Along party lines, the Senate voted 52 to 45 on a key procedural motion, failing to reach the 60 votes needed to begin debating the measure. Senator Olympia J. Snowe, the moderate Republican from Maine who is retiring, voted present. 
Senators said quiet negotiations had begun to resolve the impasse, but Democrats sought to raise the political pressure, vowing to take to the Senate floor to show the cost of inaction for students in their states.
''Mitt Romney says he supports what we're trying to do. I'd suggest he pick up the phone and call Senator McConnell,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, referring to the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
Republicans blamed Democrats for the impasse and suggested that they were manufacturing a political controversy instead of working out differences in private.
''We all agree we're not going to let the rate go up,'' Mr. McConnell said.
The vote was the Senate Republicans' 21st successful filibuster of a Democratic bill this Congress, which started in January 2011. Republicans have blocked consideration of President Obama's full jobs proposal, as well as legislation repealing tax breaks for oil companies, helping local governments pay teachers and first responders, and setting a minimum tax rate for households earning more than $1 million a year. Republicans say the measures were flawed and potentially harmful to the economic recovery.
But the student loan filibuster may be the highest-profile stalemate yet, because unlike those earlier bills, this one is not likely to be abandoned. Mr. Obama has elevated the issue by hammering Republicans on it for weeks. American students took out twice the value of student loans in 2011, about $112 billion, as they did a decade before, after adjusting for inflation. Over all, Americans now owe about $1 trillion in student loans. In 2010, such debt surpassed credit card debt for the first time.
The bill in limbo addresses only part of that burden. Graduate students with Stafford loans pay a higher rate, as do students with unsubsidized Stafford loans. Most undergraduates take out both unsubsidized and subsidized loans.
Republicans say they want to extend Democratic legislation passed in 2007 that temporarily reduced interest rates for low- and middle-income undergraduates who receive subsidized Stafford loans to 3.4 percent from 6.8 percent. But the Republicans would not accept the Senate Democrats' proposal to pay for a one-year extension by changing a law that allows some wealthy taxpayers to avoid paying Social Security and Medicare taxes by classifying their pay as dividends, not cash income.
''They want to raise taxes on people who are creating jobs when we are still recovering from the greatest recession since the Great Depression,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, who instead wanted to pay for the rate decrease by eliminating a fund for preventive health care in Mr. Obama's health care law.
Before the vote, Senate Democrats arrayed college students to plead for a yes vote, including Clarise McCants, 21, a junior at Howard University in Washington who said she pulled herself out of a troubled neighborhood in North Philadelphia and relies on $13,500 in Stafford loans for her tuition.
''I know I'm not the only one with dreams,'' she said. ''I'm here to ask Congress, 'Don't double my rate.' ''
Republicans have not always been so averse to closing the loophole that the Senate bill addresses. In 2004, when it emerged that John Edwards, then a vice-presidential hopeful, had classified himself as a ''subchapter S corporation'' to pay himself dividends rather than income, conservatives criticized him for avoiding payroll taxes.
But the Democratic line of attack has been complicated by the House's actions. Shrugging off a veto threat, the House passed an extension of the subsidized rate last month, paid for with the preventive health care fund. Thirteen Democrats voted for the bill, making up for the 30 Republicans who voted no because they opposed federal subsidies for an interest rate that they believed should be set by market forces. Those Democratic defections put the House bill over the top and fortified Republican arguments that the Senate Democrats were now to blame for the stalemate.
Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the House minority whip, said Tuesday that those Democratic votes were driven by politics, not substance. ''They didn't want that 30-second ad'' attacking them for opposing a rate-subsidy extension, he said. ''That was not a demonstration at all for the funding source.''
Republicans made clear they would go on offense, blaming Democrats if interest rates doubled July 1.
''Instead of compounding the problem with more bad policies that raise taxes on small businesses and raid Social Security and Medicare, we must work together to prevent a rate increase on students and make it easier for job creators to hire them when they graduate,'' Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, said after the vote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a Democrat, called for passage of the student loan bill with Senators Tom Harkin of Iowa, left, and Jack Reed of Rhode Island.
 Democrats arrayed college students to plead for a yes vote. The bill was blocked on party lines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (88%); TAX LAW (86%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (88%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); TOM HARKIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%); JACK REED (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



350 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts: Senator Breaks His Silence

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
BOSTON - Senator Scott P. Brown on Tuesday asked Elizabeth Warren, his likely Democratic opponent, to publicly release her applications to law schools and personnel files from the universities where she has taught. He cited ''legitimate questions'' about whether Ms. Warren had claimed American Indian heritage as a way to advance her academic career. 
The Brown campaign and the Republican Party have sought to keep such questions circulating since The Boston Herald reported late last month that Harvard Law School, where Ms. Warren currently teaches, once cited her as American Indian in the 1990s, when it was under attack for not having a diverse faculty.
Although his aides have hammered Ms. Warren over the issue, Mr. Brown himself has kept quiet about it until now, only urging reporters to keep looking into it. But on Tuesday he offered his own harsh rebuke, saying in a statement that Ms. Warren's ''changing stories, contradictions and refusal to answer legitimate questions have cast doubt on her credibility and called into question the diversity practices at Harvard.''
He added, ''The best way to satisfy these questions is for Elizabeth Warren to authorize the release of her law school applications and all personnel files from the various universities where she has taught.''
The Warren campaign pointed out that Mr. Brown issued the statement shortly after voting with other Republicans to block legislation that would freeze student loan interest rates by closing a tax loophole. Ms. Warren had supported the plan; Republicans are pushing a different way of paying for the rate freeze.
''Once again, Republican Senator Brown is shamelessly attempting to divert attention from his record on the issues that really matter in this election, like the cost of student loans,'' said Alethea Harney, a spokeswoman for Ms. Warren. ''Minutes after Scott Brown voted with his Republican Party to double interest rates on student loans, he ridiculously attacked Elizabeth Warren with questions that have already been answered.''
Ms. Warren has acknowledged listing herself as a minority in a national directory of law professors in the 1980s and '90s, citing family stories about American Indian ancestors and saying she had done it to ''meet more people who had grown up like I had grown up.'' And a genealogist in Boston has found evidence suggesting her great-great-great grandmother was Cherokee.
But Ms. Warren has also repeatedly said that she got all her teaching jobs based on merit, not ancestry. People involved in her hiring at the University of Texas, the University of Pennsylvania and Harvard have backed up that claim, although Harvard has not explained why its law school spokesman described Ms. Warren as Native American in a 1996 article in the Harvard Crimson.
On Sunday, the chairman of the Massachusetts Republican Party wrote a letter to Harvard demanding that it investigate Ms. Warren's ''false claims to be a minority'' and whether she was afforded unfair advantages.
In response, Charles Fried, a Harvard professor who helped hire Ms. Warren, released a statement saying, ''The notion that she attained her position and maintains her reputation on anything other than her evident merit is complete nonsense.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GENEALOGY (60%)

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD (57%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (93%); SCOTT BROWN (90%); SHERROD BROWN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



351 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Voters Topple Lugar After 6 Terms

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Carl Hulse and Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS -- Richard G. Lugar, one of the Senate's longest-serving members, a collegial moderate who personified a gentler political era, was turned out of office on Tuesday, ending a career that had spanned the terms of half a dozen presidents.
Mr. Lugar, a six-term senator from Indiana who had won most of his recent elections with more than 60 percent of the vote, lost a hard-fought Republican primary to Richard E. Mourdock, the state treasurer. Mr. Mourdock's campaign was fueled by Tea Party groups and national conservative organizations that deemed Mr. Lugar too willing to compromise and poured millions of dollars into the campaign to defeat him.
Mr. Lugar, 80, had not faced a challenge from within his own party since his first election to the Senate in 1976, and his defeat seemed to serve as a caution to moderates on both sides of the aisle.
In February, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, a moderate Republican, decided not to run for re-election, citing polarization in Washington. Senators Kent Conrad of North Dakota, a Democratic fiscal centrist, and Jim Webb of Virginia, a moderate Democrat, are retiring. Two other moderate Democrats, Senators Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Jon Tester of Montana, face tough re-election races. 
Tea Party organizers and conservative leaders held the Indiana outcome as evidence of a broader national demand for Republicans with unshakable stances on fiscal reform and conservative values, as well as proof of the continuing power of the Tea Party movement.
''Richard Mourdock's victory truly sends a message to the liberals in the Republican Party,'' said Chris Chocola, president of the Club for Growth. ''Voters are rejecting the policies that led to record debt and diminished economic freedom.''
For a number of Mr. Lugar's supporters, the results were a sorry arc -- not just for a man who has served for 35 years in Washington and as mayor of Indianapolis before that, but for a larger notion of trying to work across party lines in Washington.
Prominent Democrats, including President Obama, issued statements of appreciation on Tuesday night for Mr. Lugar, the ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and for his work, particularly on the nation's foreign affairs.
''While Dick and I didn't always agree on everything,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I found during my time in the Senate that he was often willing to reach across the aisle and get things done.''
Still, some Democrats, eager to hold onto the Senate, also seemed buoyed by the results here. With Mr. Lugar's defeat, they see the glimmer of an opportunity to claim a Senate seat that the party had considered out of reach as long as he was in the running. The Democratic candidate, Representative Joe Donnelly, is thought to have a better chance with independents and moderate Republicans in November against Mr. Mourdock.
Almost immediately, Democrats began emphasizing Mr. Mourdock's conservative views. ''Hoosiers deserve real leadership that will reach across the aisle in Richard Lugar's successor, not Richard Mourdock's Tea Party extremism,'' said Dan Parker, the chairman of the Indiana Democratic Party.
For months, the campaign here had been intense, expensive and, by Indiana standards, mean. National groups including the Club for Growth, the National Rifle Association and FreedomWorks, which helped build the Tea Party movement, had viewed Mr. Lugar as a ripe and overdue target, and they poured millions of dollars into the state.
Mr. Lugar -- who may be best known for his 1990s effort, along with Sam Nunn, a Democratic senator from Georgia, for a disarmament program in the former Soviet Union -- was criticized throughout the campaign for what critics described as his tendency to cooperate with Democrats. He shifted to the right in 2011, after the threat to his re-election became clear.
Mr. Mourdock, meanwhile, has said that bipartisanship has led the nation to the brink of bankruptcy, and that the nation's current circumstances call for a time of confrontation, not collegiality.
After his victory, he acknowledged his opponent. ''I know what it's like to lose -- it's not fun,'' Mr. Mourdock told The Associated Press. ''And especially after he's given that 36 years in the Senate. I know he has to feel terrible tonight, and I truly feel badly for him.''
Some of Mr. Lugar's critics accused him of being Mr. Obama's closest Republican friend -- a claim Mr. Lugar scoffed at, but also took questions about right up until Tuesday afternoon. They also railed against positions he took at various times in favor of Mr. Obama's Supreme Court nominees, the Dream Act, the bank bailout, the nuclear arms control treaty and more.
Mr. Lugar's supporters countered that he had maintained a conservative agenda over the years, for less government spending, a balanced-budget amendment and fewer regulations that harmed businesses.
For his part, Mr. Lugar sounded unbowed on Tuesday afternoon, arguing that most Americans were fed up with partisan battling and saying his race had evolved into a ''playground'' for outside interest groups.
If it felt peculiar to be entering an election day as an underdog -- Democrats did not even field an opponent six years ago -- Mr. Lugar did not show it. ''This morning, I woke up after a good night's sleep, just as before, ready with vim and vigor to make certain that we do the Lord's fight today, and we're going to do the best we can,'' he said.
But for some here, Mr. Lugar's troubles reached beyond questions of partisan loyalty. He was required this year to change his voter registration to the farm his family has owned for years rather than the Indianapolis house he sold in 1977 -- an episode that underscored how long he had been in Washington and, in the view of some, how tenuous his ties to Indiana now felt.
''Everybody's time comes,'' said Ed Budd, who described himself as a Tea Party supporter and handed out Mourdock leaflets outside a polling place in Fairland on Tuesday when Mr. Lugar walked up looking, in Mr. Budd's words, ''diminished some'' from the familiar image he had seen on television for so many years.
Throughout the day, voters for and against Mr. Lugar confided quietly that they felt sadness and discomfort as they witnessed the unfolding scene.
''This is all really painful to watch,'' said Larry MacIntyre, a supporter of Mr. Lugar's.
Many in a ballroom here on Tuesday night were crying as Mr. Lugar stepped onto a stage smiling and said he hoped Mr. Mourdock would prevail in the fall.
''We are experiencing deep political divisions in our society right now,'' Mr. Lugar said as tears welled in the eyes of the family members lined up behind him. ''These divisions have stalemated progress in critical areas. But these divisions are not insurmountable, and I believe that people of good will regardless of party can work together for the benefit of our country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Richard G. Lugar after delivering his concession speech on Tuesday at his election night headquarters in Indianapolis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER W. STEVENSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Richard E. Mourdock after speaking to supporters in Indianapolis on Tuesday following his victory in the Senate primary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AJ MAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13) CHART: Losing the Middle: The majority of senators retiring or facing tough re-elections this year were ranked in the middle of the Senate's ideological spectrum in 2011. Richard G. Lugar was rated as the 11th least conservative Republican
 he was the 4th least conservative the year before. (Source: National Journal vote ratings) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%)

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JIM WEBB (58%); JON TESTER (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); JOE DONNELLY (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%) INDIANA, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



352 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1947 words

HEADLINE: Behind Twists Of Diplomacy In China Case

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Over two days of meetings with China's leaders in Beijing last week, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton had not uttered a word about Chen Guangcheng as her aides arranged to transfer the blind Chinese dissident from the United States Embassy to a hospital, only to have the plan unexpectedly blow up. Then, last Friday, she finally broached the subject with China's senior foreign policy official, Dai Bingguo.
Mr. Chen, she said, should go to the United States after all.
The Chinese were furious. They considered Mrs. Clinton's request a betrayal of American assurances made during 30 hours of talks. China had insisted on absolute secrecy, demanding no public confirmation that Mr. Chen was in the embassy by any Americans, even members of Congress, whom the Obama administration kept in the dark. 
''I don't want to talk to him anymore,'' Cui Tiankai, the vice foreign minister, erupted after Mrs. Clinton intervened, gesturing toward Kurt M. Campbell, an assistant secretary of state and a crucial negotiator.
The confrontation was a pivotal moment in a diplomatic drama replete with unanticipated twists, threats and counterthreats, and at times comical intrigue. Mr. Campbell, for example, took to sneaking out of his hotel in Beijing through an entrance by the garbage bins to avoid public attention.
The Chinese security apparatus, meanwhile, aggressively tapped and blocked phone calls by embassy officials, with an agent at one point brazenly dialing into a conversation between Mr. Chen and his wife on the cellphone of the deputy chief of mission, Robert S. Wang. The Americans, fearing that the Chinese would restrict access to Mr. Chen's hospital, even considered disguising an employee as a nurse to gain entry.
Mrs. Clinton's intervention ultimately resulted in a second arrangement to allow Mr. Chen to study at New York University but not to seek asylum, which the Chinese considered an affront. Under terms that have not been disclosed, Mr. Chen is expected to leave in days. The outcome, said several officials who recounted the story, reflected a maturing relationship now able to weather a fraught diplomatic entanglement. The officials would discuss diplomatic talks only on the condition of anonymity.
''At a strategic level I think the two sides will quietly take some confidence from this,'' a senior administration official said.
The agreement came at the cost of what the officials said was considerable strain on both sides, and it could still fall apart, though Mr. Chen said Tuesday that the authorities had accepted his application to travel abroad. Yet the frenzied days and sleepless nights seem to have averted a major embarrassment for the administration and defused a crisis that threatened to upend relations between the two countries.
Mr. Chen's case highlighted what the Americans view as an intensifying struggle within the Chinese leadership between hard-liners and reformers. At one point during the talks, the State Department's legal adviser, Harold H. Koh, encountered officials from China's powerful Ministry of State Security arguing in the hallway with their counterparts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, saying Mr. Chen should be punished, not coddled by the Americans.
At the center of it was Mr. Chen, who after his harrowing escape from Chinese security officials and arrival at the embassy experienced wild mood swings -- crying at times -- even as he bargained with the cunning of the lawyer he had taught himself to be.
Once released to the hospital, he used three preprogrammed cellphones provided by the Americans to press his demands in public. He did not want asylum, he said, but rather an investigation by Chinese central government authorities into his mistreatment.
The use of technology -- posts on Twitter, a dramatic call to a Congressional hearing -- boxed in the Chinese but also left Americans scrambling. After speaking to his lawyer and his wife, Mr. Chen abruptly changed his mind and decided he could not stay in China. At that point the American officials were in the dark about his shift.
''It took us a little while -- we were already unbelievably exhausted -- to find our bearings,'' the senior administration official said of Mr. Chen's change of heart. What complicated the diplomacy was the fact that the Chinese considered the very notion of negotiations over a Chinese citizen unacceptable. They refused to make any binding commitments to the Americans, exposing the administration to criticism once Mr. Chen left the embassy. Even now, there is no official agreement, but simply a series of ''understandings.''
One of the senior American officials likened it to the Shanghai Communique, the 1972 agreement that opened the door to relations between the United States and China but artfully left ambiguous the status of Taiwan.
President Obama, who was first notified when Mr. Chen was already in the embassy, refused to comment on his fate, even when asked directly. That and Mrs. Clinton's avoidance of his case in her meetings with China's leaders gave the Chinese space to resolve the matter quietly.
''Even if we had negotiated a text, which would have taken six months, the Chinese could have nullified it,'' this official said. ''Face is more important in Asian society than any contract.''
The Americans knew Mr. Chen's plight well. He was jailed in 2006 after helping villagers in Shandong Province sue the local authorities for subjecting women to forced abortions and sterilizations. After his release in 2010, the authorities kept him under a form of extralegal house arrest.
Even so, the officials said they knew nothing of his preparations to escape from his farmhouse on the night of April 22.
They learned of it only when He Peirong, a rights advocate, called the embassy three days later and told officials there that he was in hiding on the outskirts of Beijing, his foot broken from a fall during the escape.
After a late-night meeting at the State Department on April 25, Mrs. Clinton approved a plan to spirit him into the embassy, an operation that involved hustling him from one car to another twice. ''Everyone understood the magnitude of the decision, how unpredictable it was, and that there would be consequences,'' the senior official said.
With Mr. Chen inside the embassy, the administration held a series of meetings in Washington to decide how to manage the crisis -- with the State Department leading the effort and the White House overseeing it through frequent secure videoconference calls. On April 27, Mr. Campbell informed the Chinese ambassador in Washington, Zhang Yesui, of Mr. Chen's whereabouts. The diplomat appeared stunned.
Mr. Campbell then flew to Beijing, where he joined Ambassador Gary Locke, who cut short a vacation in Bali, and Mr. Koh, who happened to be in China for a conference, to form the American negotiating team. Mr. Koh had been waiting to board a Yangtze River cruise when Mrs. Clinton's chief of staff, Cheryl D. Mills, ordered him to find a secure phone. The closest one turned out to be four hours away in the United States Consulate in Chengdu.
An already complicated situation became grave when an embassy doctor examined Mr. Chen. In addition to the broken foot from his escape, he complained of severe abdominal pain. His stool contained so much blood that the doctor feared he might have colon cancer. That fueled the urgency to get him to a hospital.
The talks with the Chinese began on April 29, and did not start well. ''We had to go through the process of him just ripping into us,'' the senior official said, referring to Mr. Cui, who complained that the United States had violated diplomatic practice.
China's negotiators suggested that they would cancel the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, which was scheduled to begin four days later with the arrival of Mrs. Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. The Americans, in turn, hinted that they, too, were prepared to walk away, hoping to use the prospect of constructive talks as leverage.
Mr. Koh, who composed a memorandum that made the case for taking in Mr. Chen, proposed having him study at East China Normal University in Shanghai in a program sponsored by New York University. The Chinese objected, considering the program ''too Western.'' The Americans were soon holding parallels sets of talks, with Mr. Campbell meeting with the Chinese and Mr. Locke and Mr. Koh effectively negotiating with a mercurial Mr. Chen.
All along, the officials said, Mr. Chen said that he did not want to leave China, but that he feared leaving the embassy. At one point, Mr. Koh asked him if he was prepared to spend 30 years there, evoking the experience of other famous dissidents, like Daw Aung San Suu Kyi of Myanmar, and telling him about the travails of his own father, a diplomat, who fled South Korea for the United States in 1961.
Despite initial resistance, the Chinese appeared willing to consider options for Mr. Chen. One official said they wanted to resolve the case in 36 hours. They did not object to the possibility of his studying at seven other universities in China, but bristled at the idea of an investigation and were offended when the Americans presented a list of 13 people, including Mr. Chen's brother and nephew, whom they wanted to protect from harassment. (Some have since been released.)
One Chinese official lashed out: ''The whole thing could be resolved in 36 minutes, not 36 hours. Just turn him over.''
Mr. Chen, though, wanted a gesture. The Chinese authorities arranged for Mr. Chen's wife, Yuan Weijing, and their two children to travel by train to Beijing. The American deputy chief of mission, Mr. Wang, met them and offered his phone to allow Mrs. Yuan to make the call that the Chinese agent monitored.
When Mr. Chen again hesitated, the Chinese indicated that they would send his family back, which critics have interpreted as a threat, saying it was conveyed to Mr. Chen by American officials effectively to coerce him to leave. Mr. Locke, Mr. Campbell and other officials have publicly denied that. Even so, one official acknowledged, ''We told him very clearly that there was only so far we could go with assurances.''
The arrangement, reached hours after Mrs. Clinton arrived in Beijing that Wednesday, fell apart immediately. In the car, Mr. Chen called a lawyer, Teng Biao, who told him it was a mistake to leave the embassy. ''No, no, I want to do this,'' Mr. Chen replied, according to a person in the car. ''It's a good deal.''
The scene at the hospital quickly became confused. The Chinese did not object to allowing an American diplomat to stay overnight, contrary to reports that prompted the criticism. As with much of the story, the moment turned less on geopolitics than on human relations. The diplomat, in fact, left because he believed that Mr. Chen wanted privacy with his wife.
Thursday was chaotic, as reports that the agreement had fallen apart led Republican critics to castigate the administration. At the hospital, Mr. Chen underwent lengthy examinations, preventing the Americans from contacting him directly. Doctors found that he was suffering not from cancer, but from colitis.
In her meeting with Mr. Dai, the foreign policy official, on Friday, Mrs. Clinton never explicitly asked for anything. She made it clear, however, that she would have to speak about Mr. Chen when she appeared before the press. The subtlety worked: within hours, the Chinese released a statement that Mr. Chen could travel to study abroad like any citizen, and the State Department announced that it would expedite any request for a visa.
As one official put it, ''The days of blowing up the relationship over a single guy are over.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The blind activist lawyer Chen Guangcheng with villagers in Shandong Province. His escape from house arrest set off frenzied days of diplomacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DU BIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Cui Tiankai, vice foreign minister, said the Americans had violated diplomatic practice.
Kurt M. Campbell, left, an assistant secretary of state and a key negotiator in the Chen case, in Beijing on April 29. At right, Mr. Chen with Ambassador Gary Locke, left, while being taken from the American Embassy to a hospital last Wednesday. Officials said the diplomacy in the case reflected a maturing of the ties between the United States and China. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NG HAN GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 UNITED STATES EMBASSY BEIJING PRESS OFFICE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); GARY LOCKE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



353 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Aggressive Advertisements for Obama, at the Ready

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Forget hope and change.
After months of planning, President Obama's media team has prepared an aggressive strategy to portray Mitt Romney as insensitive to the plight of working people and beholden to powerful interests. They have researched possible lines of attack and drafted language that can be dropped into an advertisement at a moment's notice.
Campaign advisers said they were willing to commit a considerable chunk of their advertising budget -- expected to be the largest any presidential campaign has ever seen -- to broadcasting these attacks.
The work of the Obama message machine, a half-dozen outside advertising firms and in-house campaign strategists, is already on vivid display. In their ads, Web videos and online features, the president wants to thwart the influence of ''big oil''; Mr. Romney cashes their campaign checks. The president saved hundreds of thousands of jobs by rescuing the auto industry; Mr. Romney shipped jobs overseas. ''It's just what you expect from a guy who had a Swiss bank account,'' one ad says. 
At the center of this effort is Jim Margolis, and his job is to make you think of call centers in India every time you hear Mr. Romney's name.
With a reporter in his studio on a recent afternoon, an unassuming Mr. Margolis seemed harmless enough as he leaned back in a swivel chair and suggested a few revisions to a video he was editing with his staff. Their work that day would become part of the $25 million advertising blitz the Obama campaign kicked off this week.
Strip a few data points out of the script, he said; too many numbers might confuse people. Swap out a clip of a smiling family and replace it with a father and son playing baseball; it will look less staged.
But Mr. Margolis did not become a top chef in what Mr. Romney calls the president's ''hell's kitchen'' of negative ads based solely on his eye for a pretty picture and his flair for boiling down a good resume in 30 seconds.
His past work shows why he is such an indispensable part of Mr. Obama's media team. In the 2008 presidential campaign, Mr. Margolis produced a commercial that repeated John McCain's ill-advised assertion ''the fundamentals of our economy are strong'' over and over, helping to sear the phrase into voters' minds as the economy imploded that fall.
Two years later, he helped Senator Barbara Boxer of California win re-election against Carly Fiorina, the Republican nominee and former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, with ads that showed Ms. Fiorina being ushered into a chauffeured car as an aide held the door. One of them reminded voters, ''While Californians lost their jobs, Fiorina tripled her salary, bought a million-dollar yacht and five corporate jets.''
Mr. Margolis, 57, maintains a low profile in a presidential inner circle filled with advisers who write books and appear regularly on ''Meet the Press'' -- the antithesis of a flamboyant adman. His lack of visibility belies his influence in Democratic circles, where he first surfaced as a 23-year-old Congressional chief of staff in the 1980s. A contemplative man with silver hair, large blue eyes and a low, gravely voice, he has served as a close adviser to a host of top Democrats, including Senators Harry Reid, Max Baucus and Mark Warner.
As a debate coach, he once made Mrs. Boxer so angry during a prep session (he stood in very convincingly as Ms. Fiorina) that she had to take a walk outside to calm down. He still travels to Capitol Hill almost every Tuesday to offer strategic advice to Mr. Reid, who says of him, ''He's very good at making you feel you're better than you are.''
If you live in a state where a presidential contest has been close at some point in the last 20 years, you have probably seen one of Mr. Margolis's ads. During the 2004 Democratic primaries, Mr. Margolis's commercials featuring Senator John Kerry's crewmates from Vietnam recalling his heroism were credited with helping him win the nomination.
Mr. Margolis and his firm, GMMB, first produced ads for Mr. Obama in 2007, and their work quickly stood out for its subtle edge.
Using video from one of Mr. Obama's speeches in Iowa, he created a gauzy 60-second commercial that made Hillary Rodham Clinton sound irrelevant with a line that never even mentioned her: ''The same old Washington textbook campaigns just won't do it.''
''It was a beautiful spot,'' said Mandy Grunwald, who was a senior strategist for Mrs. Clinton at the time. ''Everybody knew who he was talking about.''
The ad's potency speaks to a fact about Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign that often goes overlooked. That year he ran more negative ads than any other candidate in history, according to the Wisconsin Advertising Project, a nonpartisan political research group.
Mr. McCain was depicted in some commercials as out of touch and feeble. One recalled him saying that he could not remember how many houses he owned. ''Well, it's seven,'' the announcer said dismissively.
The Obama campaign acknowledges that fiercely attacking Mr. Romney has risks.
''Tonally we have to be very careful about the fact that the president does have standards and does have a brand that he feels strongly about,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior strategist. ''I think it's possible to be tough and also fair, tough and also factual. And that's what we're going to do. But rest assured, we will be responding when we are being attacked.''
Putting the efforts to define Mr. Romney aside, the Obama campaign faces problems with its own message. One big challenge that Mr. Margolis acknowledged is conveying optimism about the country's progress without seeming tone deaf to the struggles that many Americans still face.
''If your house is under water or you can't make your car payment, I'm not going to convince you that everything is O.K.,'' Mr. Margolis said.
But after he pointed out some of the president's signature accomplishments, like the auto industry bailout, he added, ''While none of us should diminish the hardships, we also shouldn't be shy about telling the story of what this president is accomplishing.''
Not that Mr. Margolis has ever held back.
In the 2010 Boxer race, he sent a film crew to California to interview workers who were laid off by Ms. Fiorina.
''Fiorina never cared about our jobs. Not then. Not now,'' said one of the workers, his voice ringing with indignation.
Mr. Margolis also created a series of commercials that year for Mr. Reid using ordinary citizens to criticize Sharron Angle, his Tea Party-backed opponent, as reckless and erratic.
In one ad, a Republican who is a member of the National Rifle Association said of Ms. Angle's position on guns, ''It's crazy.'' What was most damning went left unsaid: the suggestion that he was speaking about Ms. Angle herself.
Mr. Margolis declined to discuss any ads in the works for the Obama campaign. But his advice to Mrs. Boxer in 2010 may offer a hint of what is to come.
''He would always say, 'Barbara, this is a race between two choices,' '' Mrs. Boxer said in an interview. '' 'And you need to remind people that you're running against someone who shipped tens of thousands of jobs overseas and made her success by stepping over other people. You can never forget that.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Margolis, who develops advertisements for President Obama's re-election campaign, reviewing a commercial with colleagues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CALL CENTERS (66%); LAYOFFS (57%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARBARA BOXER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



354 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Where Manufacturing Is Gaining

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: A Brookings Institution report finds a surprising resurgence of factory jobs in the Midwest and suggests what state and local governments can do to foster domestic manufacturing. 

 BODY:
After hemorrhaging jobs during the recession - and over the last decade, for that matter - manufacturing has been one of the few bright spots of the recovery, restoring 489,000 jobs since the beginning of 2010.
 But there have been some significant geographic distinctions in that recovery, as well as some toppled assumptions, one of which is that factory jobs have steadily shifted from the Midwest to the South. 
A new report from the Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program shows that since the beginning of 2010, manufacturing employment has increased by 5.2 percent in the Midwest, while it has gone up by only 2.2 percent in the South.
The study also analyzes which metropolitan areas have the highest concentration of manufacturing workers, both as a proportion of jobs in the area and as a multiple of the proportion of manufacturing jobs to all jobs nationally. Of the 20 metropolitan areas that rank as "most manufacturing-specialized," half are in the Midwest.

Southern regions remain relatively strong in manufacturing, with eight metropolitan areas on that list. But the usual narrative of an inexorably declining Rust Belt seems not quite accurate - or at least for now. "It's possible that this bounce-back is just a bounce-back and won't last," said Howard Wial, an economist and fellow at the Brookings Institution who was one of the authors of the report. "But there is an opportunity for it to be more."
The study also examined the clustering of manufacturing companies in particular regions. Very high-tech manufacturing companies are concentrated in the Northwest and West, for example, while chemical companies are found mostly in the South.
The authors indicated that most state and local governments do little to foster a thriving manufacturing industry when they offer tax breaks and other incentives to companies or pass right-to-work laws that tend to suppress wages. Instead, they say, governments should focus on research and development and work-force training aimed at specific manufacturing sectors.
"Manufacturing has been unfashionable for a long time," Mr. Wial said. The attitude of many government officials, he said, has been "why bother to spend money and exert energy to strengthen what we have if it's going away anyway." (Economists, even those close to the Obama administration, have beendivided over the policy value of fostering domestic manufacturing.) 
Mr. Wial said that there was some evidence that manufacturing could make more of a comeback in the United States because labor costs are rising in developing countries and "many large companies are starting to reconsider the costs and benefits of offshoring."
To capitalize on such trends, the report's authors encourage geographically centered investments in research and technology and work force training, based on detailed knowledge of the existing manufacturing base within communities. 

        
Charles Duhigg Responds to Readers on Apple and the iEconomy
        
Job Losses Across the Developed World
        
The Growing Underclass: Jobs Gone Forever
        
What Would Improve Job Prospects for Young Workers?
        
Unemployment, Beyond the Rate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CITIES (90%); TRENDS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (86%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); CHEMICALS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (50%) Brookings Institution; jobs; manufacturing; regional variation; Wial; Economic Conditions and Trends; Factories and Manufacturing; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (93%) Brookings Institution

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



355 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2147 words

HEADLINE: Shopping for a Better World

BYLINE: SARIKA BANSAL


HIGHLIGHT: Companies that donate to a cause each time a customer buys an item are onto a model with massive potential - but it can be improved. 

 BODY:
To be successful in business today, a company must do more than just sell a good product. According to a recent study (pdf), 80 percent of Americans are likely to switch brands, if comparable in price and quality, to one that supports a social cause.
In response, many businesses have changed their practices to be - or at least appear to be - more connected to social causes. Some companies give a percent of their profits to charity. Others host lavish philanthropic galas. More recently, some companies have begun adopting a charity model known as "buy one give one" (B1G1).
Toms is probably the largest and best known of the B1G1 companies. For every pair of shoes someone buys, a second pair is donated to a child in need. The eyewear company Warby Parker employs a similar model. Every time it sells a pair of glasses, it sends money for another pair to a social enterprise that then sells them in poor countries. Established brands like Ikeahave tested the model, as have nonprofits like One Laptop Per Child and a growing number of start-up companies - including ones that sell vitamins, blanketsand children's clothing.

The B1G1 model holds a lot of intuitive appeal, which has likely contributed to its proliferation. It allows people who may otherwise be disconnected from problems in the developing world to effortlessly engage with them by, say, purchasing a stylish pair of sunglasses. It is also more tangible than most corporate philanthropy. "You actually feel that there's someone out there who has a pair of shoes because of your transaction," said Dean Karlan, a professor of economics at Yale University and a co-author of "More Than Good Intentions."
B1G1 has the potential to raise funds perpetually, as it encourages philanthropy in everyday purchasing decisions. "To the extent [B1G1] unlocks money that would have otherwise not been available, that's fantastic," said Antony Bugg-Levine, chief executive of the Non-Profit Finance Fund. If the goods are directed to effective organizations, B1G1 companies could give many social causes a boost.
The model could also fail. Some companies may be interested in adopting B1G1 more to win customer loyalty than to support a social cause and may thus overstate the impact of their charitable activities. Some B1G1 companies may form a partnership with nongovernmental organizations with unreliable track records, impose ill-fitting donations on communities with no use for them or supplant local markets. "To the extent there are local shoemakers, they may not have much of a business if [a B1G1 company] comes and gives away shoes for free," said Greg Dees, professor of social entrepreneurship at Duke University.
Dees and others also question whether B1G1 handouts can produce lasting change. "There is definitely a need for footwear in underserved markets," said Valeria Budinich, vice president of Ashoka, a nonprofit that supports social entrepreneurs. "But those markets need new technology, production processes and distribution chains that [are specifically designed for] rural areas. Models like Toms have many great features but aren't designed to come up with that level of transformation."
In fact, most development experts refrain from painting B1G1 companies as social enterprises, assome outlets have, and instead consider them philanthropic ventures. "To me, it's only a social enterprise if the social impact comes from core operations," Dees said. "How you use the money afterward is your choice."
No matter the obstacles, it should be recognized that the B1G1 model is attractive to consumers and consequently a potentially powerful method to bolster social change - and it's worth examining whether it can be turned into a long-term solution for populations living without basics like shoes or prescription eyewear. How can products be distributed so they make a sustainable difference in the lives of those whom B1G1 companies are trying to help?
There are several reasons why the B1G1 model resonates with customers. The concept is easy to grasp: you buy an item, and in doing so, a similar item is shipped to someone halfway around the world. "There isn't much more to it than that," said Neil Blumenthal, a co-founder of Warby Parker. "That's the beauty of it."
It is also a benefit to both the company and its program when it gives away a product similar to the one it sells. "It seems more brand resonant for the philanthropy to be linked to eyeglasses rather than donating the money to charter schools or health care," said Bugg-Levine. As consumers become increasingly interested in supporting mission-driven companies, many look for ones with, in Blumenthal's words, a "coherent and authentic narrative." If the narrative is absent, he said, "you're not going to create an emotional connection with customers."
There is also the undeniable power of the "one." B1G1 companies do not ask customers to support an abstract idea or cause. Rather, most say that their purchase will benefit "a child in need" - a claim often accompanied with an image of a child seemingly in need. Psychology research has long shown that people connect more strongly with individual distress than with large-scale suffering. The Times columnist Nick Kristof, for instance, has cited instanceswhere people have donated over twice as much to help save one child as to save eight.
Some B1G1 companies, like Warby Parker, have been able to capitalize on the strengths of the model to positively impact communities in the developing world. For every pair of glasses a customer buys, Warby Parker covers the cost of sourcing and producing a second pair of glasses for partners like the social enterprise VisionSpring. VisionSpring, in turn, employs a network of 9,000 sales agents in 13 countries to sell glasses in their communities. (Disclosure: The Fixes columnist David Bornstein was on the board of VisionSpring for six years between 2002 and 2010.)
One reason for Warby Parker's success is the strength of its partnership with VisionSpring. Blumenthal worked for the social enterprise for five years before starting his own company. As a result, both partners are confident of the other's abilities and intentions. "People you're partnering with should have a similar long-term mission and vision, and also strong integrity," said Jordan Kassalow, the chief executive of VisionSpring.
Warby Parker made a conscious decision to support the sale and not donation of glasses.
Donations, Blumenthal said, can "create perverse incentives that create a culture of dependence and at times can negatively impact the economy." There are also practical considerations to this. "People are constantly breaking or losing their glasses, or their prescriptions are changing, or new people are finding that they need new glasses," he said. "You need a permanent presence [in a community], and that can't be sustained by giving away stuff for free."
Unlike Warby Parker, Toms donates its goods. Since its inception in 2006, Toms has given away over two million pairs of shoes to children in 40 developing countries. The company markets itself as one that "does good"; the company's founder, Blake Mycoskie, even calls himself "chief shoe giver" instead of "chief executive officer."
The giving aspect of Toms occurs entirely through NGO partners. When a customer makes a purchase, a second pair of shoes is manufactured and shipped to the recipient country, where an NGO partner picks them up, transports them to their community and distributes them.
"We want our shoes to somehow be an enabler, whether it's to get kids in school, prevent [disease] or boost self-esteem," said Katherine James Schuitemaker, a consultant who works with Toms. Its shoe-giving work in Debre Markos, Ethiopia, for instance, has been done in collaboration with medical groups and has helped raise awareness of podoconiosis, a disfiguring foot disease prevented by wearing shoes.
However, it is not clear that all of Toms's handouts are "enablers." On a recent trip to Ethiopia I met with Toms's employees, who said that shoes promote education because children are often barred from entering schools barefoot. However, when I met one of their core Ethiopian giving partners, the International Orthodox Christian Charities, I learned that they distribute the shoes in schools - to children who, presumably, already own shoes. This situation is not unique. Some children in Toms's promotional material are also wearing shoes, though they may be inappropriate for school or playground use (see the fourth image on this blog post and several images in this video).
"I think the act of giving is fine when there are temporary needs to be met," Dees said, "but we need to get around to finding out what the underlying problems are." There will always be people who "shouldn't have to pay anything for shoes or glasses," he continued, but for those who can afford such items, long-term handouts make less sense.
As with many mass donation programs, Toms's donated goods are not customized for the recipient region. And while closed-toe canvas shoes may be suitable in some areas, they may not fit with the weather or fashion demands of many markets. Areas with high rainfall, for instance, would likely be better served with a rubber boot.
The presence of handouts may also prevent local markets from thriving. "If you drive down the price so much that you create disincentives for longer term investments from factory owners, then that causes long-term harm," said Karlan. Toms disagrees. Sebastian Fries, the company's "chief giving officer," believes the giveaways will create "shoe-wearing behavior" among the poor that will eventually result in demand for local markets. "If we begin to create an environment where shoes are available," he said, "we hope the local shoe industry will take this up and start selling shoes." Once this happens, he said, Toms would consider exiting the community.
Toms rarely provides work to local shoe markets. With the exceptions of Argentina and Ethiopia, where Toms has local manufacturing hubs, all shoes are shipped from China - a practice critics argue makes the end product more expensive and less environmentally friendly.
Some of these issues can be resolved. For instance, Toms is actively looking to expand its local manufacturing. "In a year, I'll be in a different position to tell you where we'll be locally manufacturing," Fries said. "That's a clear goal of mine." They are also experimenting with donating additional varieties of shoes.
There are many ways Toms and other B1G1 companies can do better. The core idea of B1G1 remains a powerful one, as it engages customers in the developed world in a way many philanthropic programs do not. To be effective, however, the B1G1 program must be designed to be sustainable and consistent with the needs of the developing world recipients.
Many development experts support the idea of selling, and not donating, goods in the developing world. "If you told me the shoes were being produced and sold locally, helping with unemployment in the area, and they were paying good wages and had good working conditions, then that starts to be more appealing as well," Dees said. "Those kinds of things tackle the underlying problem more."
If a company does pursue a handout model, Bugg-Levine suggested that B1G1 companies give people vouchers instead of a product. "If you give people vouchers to purchase shoes from local shoe manufacturers, you won't distort local markets," he said. Karlan took this suggestion a step further. "Take the money you were going to spend on shoes, and just give it out," he said. "The goods cost too much compared to the benefit people accrue, so it's better to take the money you were going to spend on shipping and turn it into a cash transfer program."
If a B1G1 company wants to more deeply embed itself in a community, it could also, Budinich of Ashoka suggested, go the distance and develop a low-cost product to sell in those markets. She compared Toms with Czech shoemaker Bata, which she said revolutionized the shoe industry by mass-producing and selling shoes at affordable prices in over 70 countries. "Could Toms work with the next Bata of the world?" she proposed. This kind of collaboration, she said, could have a deeper and longer lasting impact on the world of shoes than handouts ever could.
At the heart of these suggestions is a desire to turn an increasingly popular philanthropic model into a mechanism to positively and sustainably impact the recipients. The ideal situation, said Dees, is when a program can "give a warm feeling" while still "engaging in effective problem-solving." With a few changes to the model, some B1G1 companies might approach that.

        
Giving Where It Works
        
Making Medical Donations Work
        
The True Cost of Tomatoes
        
A Scorecard for Companies With a Conscience
        
Billionaires Unleashed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (89%); CORPORATE GIVING (89%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS MFG (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); STARTUPS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) consumers; Philanthropy; Eyeglasses; Shoes and Boots; Third World and Developing Countries; Warby Parker; Addis Ababa (Ethiopia); Ethiopia; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: Warby Parker

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (90%) ETHIOPIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%) Addis Ababa (Ethiopia); Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



356 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Whither Europe

BYLINE: KATRIN BENNHOLD


HIGHLIGHT: At a high-level conference on the state of the European Union, the biggest brains couldn't even agree on what the biggest problem was -- not to mention, how to fix it. 

 BODY:
FLORENCE - The State of the (European) Union was the subject of a high-level conference in Florence on Wednesday and most participants agreed that it is dire.
But that's where the agreement ended. There were almost as many suggestions as speakers, with ideas of how the euro zone might survive the current crisis ranging from the all-too-familiar ("budgetary discipline" and growth-enhancing structural reforms) to the outright wacky (reintroducing local currencies alongside the euro).
Michel Barnier, E.U. commissioner for the bloc's internal market, warned against protectionism, arguing that liberalizing the single market further, notably in the area of services, was Europe's best hope of coming out of the economic doldrums.
"Today's paradox," Mr. Barnier said, "is that the single market may become the first victim of the crisis and at the same time it is the biggest opportunity to get out of the crisis."
The conference was meant to commemorate Europe Day. " 'Europe Day' on May 9 marks the moment in 1950 when French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman initiated what became the Europe Union," reported Deutsche Welle, the German broadcaster, citing Agence France-Presse and Reuters. "Its 62nd anniversary has been overshadowed by more debate at an E.U. conference in Florence focusing on how to fix the euro zone's debt crisis.
"The uncertainty on Wednesday sent markets and the euro tumbling. Spain's share market closed at its lowest level since 2003, prompted by worries over bad debts held by banks from a collapsed property market."
Italy's Prime Minister, Mario Monti, later welcomed the comments from Mr. Barnier, a Frenchman whose home country has not always been good at resisting protectionist urges. Globalization, Mr. Monti, quipped, sounds so much scarier when translated into French. "La mondialisation ..."
Daniel Gros of the Center for European Policy Studies said Europe faces less of a debt crisis and more of a banking crisis. "The main structural issue is large overleveraged banks," he said. Draining liquidity, rather than trying to attract more money from, say, the I.M.F., which would only appreciate the value of the euro and make things harder for the southern countries, was the main priority.
European policymakers, think-tankers, business types and academics spent much of the morning mulling better fiscal rules, a European civil service and region-wide euro bonds.
In the end, it took an American to stand up and call for something a little more radical.
"Is this really the best you can do?" Barry Eichengreen, an economics professor at the University of California at Berkely, asked the Europeans in the room.
Advocating a massive recapitalization of European banks; more stimulus, in part by putting off austerity measures for later; and a Marshal Plan of foreign aid for Greece, he scolded politicians for focusing on long-term issues when short-term action was required. "Absent of a fundamental rethink, things in Europe will get worse before they get better," he warned.
A Greek exit from the Union was the elephant in the room that few on the panel dared to mention. Again, it was an American who addressed the issue, though not without an intriguing twist: Harold James, the Princeton historian, suggested that rather than leave the Union altogether, countries in distress could re-introduce their old local currencies and use them internally - much like in the heyday of the Florentine city state a (golden) Florentin was used in international trade, while a (silver) Picciolo paid the wages of those inside the country.
Beyond the immediate economic concerns, many speakers warned of a growing wave of anti-European and nationalist sentiment that appeared to be sweeping the Union, judging from recent election results.
"Greece is not special," warned Mr. Eichengreen, noting that the tendency of other European countries to pretend that Greece was a special case risked missing a deeper and wider discontent.
Mr. James said this phenomenon was not confined to the E.U.: Calling the E.U. the "canary in the coal mine of globalization," he said Europe's collapse would have repercussions well beyond its borders.

        
Italian Monti Seeks to Avoid Catching the Spanish Disease
        
Europeans Forage for 'Green Shoots'
        
The Decline and Fall of Greece

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EUROBONDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); CURRENCIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); BANK FAILURES (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) European sovereign debt crisis; Barnier, Michel; Eichengreen, Barry; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); European Monetary Union; Europe; Business

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE WELLE (55%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Monetary Union

INDUSTRY: SIC4822 TELEGRAPH & OTHER MESSAGE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Barnier, Michel; Eichengreen, Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



357 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Is That Onions You Smell? Or Battery Juice?

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: No more crying over electric bills, now that an onion-processing company has a battery to store electricity at off-peak periods. 

 BODY:
, a food processing company based in Oxnard, Calif., needs copious amounts of electricity for refrigeration, lighting and other jobs, and it sets an example by making its own, using onion waste. But it recently became a little greener - and more economical - by adding an enormous battery. 
Gills processes about a million pounds of onions a day. Of that, about 300,000 pounds a day - the tops, bottoms and outer peels - is waste. "We slice, we dice, we whole-peel,'' said Nikki Rodoni, a spokeswoman. Disposing of that material involved considerable labor as well as diesel fuel for the trucks, and storing it on site made the company unpopular with neighbors, she said. 
So a few years ago Gills switched to squeezing the wastes to produce about 30,000 gallons of juice. It might not be to human tastes, but it is rich in sugars and attractive to bacteria. 
The juice goes into a device called an anaerobic digester, basically an oxygen-free chamber, where bacteria break it down and produce methane gas. After it is cleaned and dried, the methane is fed to two fuel cells that quietly and cleanly covert it to 600 kilowatts of electricity. (The remainder of the onion waste becomes cattle feed.) 
That cost $10.8 million, but it worked well. Still, at some hours, Gills needs far more than 600 kilowatts - about three times as much. Then it must buy electricity from Southern California Edison, and for Gills, that posed two problems.

One was that it was buying energy at the most expensive time of the day, weekday afternoons, when the system's loads are high. The other is that commercial customers like Gills pay not only for energy, but also for peak capacity, or the highest level of power demand that they require in the course of a month. 
So it is now taking a second, unusual approach to electricity, harnessing a gigantic battery built by Prudent Energy of Bethesda, Md. The Prudent battery is the same in principle as many others, with a liquid electrolyte that can shuttle ions back and forth to absorb current or create it. But it has external tanks to store huge volumes of electrolyte and takes up a space the size of a tennis court.
The battery can absorb or give back another 600 kilowatts for as long as six hours. Fully charged, it holds enough energy to run a large suburban house for about four months. 
 In California, with time-of-use rates, the electricity can be bought at night for less than half what it costs during the day. It is not pure savings because the battery loses 10 to 30 percent of the energy in the round trip from the grid to the battery and back out again on its way to the electricity-using device. 
But in addition to letting the company pay nighttime prices for electricity used in the daytime, the battery provides a kind of insurance: it can step in instantaneously if one of the fuel cells unexpectedly shuts down, according to Jeff Pierson, senior vice president of Prudent. That prevents a spike in Gills's demand from the grid and thus eliminates higher demand charges. 
The two companies did not disclose the price of the battery. It will initially be owned by Prudent, with Gills having an option to buy it later.
Called a vanadium battery for the material used in the electrolyte, it is the largest of its kind in the world, Mr. Pierson said. He suggested that similar ones could be installed around the country. 
"This time-of-use play is not unique to California,'' he said. "There are plenty of other places around the country where you have that sort of differential between off-peak and peak.''
Batteries like this one have a variety of potential uses. Grid operators around the country are looking for storage devices that can accept signals to draw power off the system or give it back on short notice - usually at four-second intervals - to balance supply and demand and keep the alternating current system properly synchronized. 
And on the West Coast, electric grid operators are going to greater lengths to find ways to compensate for sudden surges or drops in generation from wind or solar installations. 
Batteries like Prudent's can do both, although the one at Gills is not currently set up for those tasks. 

        
Surplus Renewable Energy: An Update
        
Recruiting Energy Customers to Use More
        
For Coal Plants, a Game of Chicken
        
Electricity Demand Soars in Mid-Atlantic States
        
Q. and A.: The Renewable Energy Czar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIOREMEDIATION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); METHANE (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); UTILITY RATES (89%); FOOD MFG (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); BIOFUELS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); BACTERIA (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); DIESEL FUEL (70%); LIVESTOCK FEED (65%) anaerobic digestion; Batteries; Biofuels; electricity; Gills Onions; grid; off-peak demand; Onions; peak demand; Electric Light and Power; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Methane; California; Business

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%) California

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



358 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Volcker Defends a Rule Bearing His Name

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Paul A. Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee that the influence of a ban on proprietary trading went "far beyond the particular risks" and that it also addressed "a cultural issue" on Wall Street. 

 BODY:
The Volcker Rule, loathed by many bankers, still has the support of an influential Wall Street critic: Paul A. Volcker. 
The former chairman of the Federal Reserve defended the regulatory crackdown that bears his name, telling Congress on Wednesday that the Volcker Rule was a "solid step toward reining in" banks that are considered too big to fail. 
Mr. Volcker has championed efforts to bar banks from trading with their own money, a practice known as proprietary trading that is outlawed under the new policy. The Volcker Rule, a crucial component of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law, was rooted in his belief that banks should not place risky bets while enjoying government deposit insurance and other backing.
Mr. Volcker argued on Wednesday that his namesake rule would make a serious dent, not only in outsize risk-taking, but in the likelihood of future Wall Street bailouts. 
"Its influence goes far beyond the particular risks," he told the Senate Banking Committee, telling lawmakers that the rule also addresses "a cultural issue" on Wall Street. 
Proprietary trading, he said, breeds "conflicts of interest" and "necessarily dangerous behavior" at big banks. 
And for their effort, he noted, "traders get to be richly rewarded."
Condemning banks for trying to mimic hedge funds and other shadowy corners of Wall Street, Mr. Volcker challenged the wisdom behind proprietary trading. 
"It is surely inappropriate that those activities be carried out by institutions benefiting from taxpayer support, current or potential," he said. "Proprietary trading is not a necessary ingredient of bank profits."
Alternately haranguing banks - saying at one point, "I don't think these big banks are totally irresponsible" -- and playing down his own influence on the rule, which "somehow has my name attached to it," Mr. Volcker laid out his vision for ending bailouts. 
In addition to the Volcker Rule, he backed new curbs on derivatives trading and a plan to cap the size of large financial institutions. 
The conversation with lawmakers, however, often returned to the Volcker Rule, a hot button issue on Wall Street and in Washington. 
With some prodding from liberal lawmakers, he brushed away the central criticisms facing the rule. 
Will it dry up liquidity, wreaking havoc on the broader economy? 
"The markets seemed to become very liquid before the crisis," he quipped. "It led to some behavior that is not very constructive," citing the boom of subprime mortgages. 
Will it hurt small town banks? 
"The typical community bank is not doing proprietary trading," he explained, saying that the rule applies to a "very concentrated number of banks."
He also addressed concerns that the ban on proprietary trading would bleed into legitimate bank practices. The banks' concerns center on the imprecise nature of proprietary trading, which can be blurred with the role of market-making, in which banks hold positions in stocks and bonds in order to sell them later to clients.
At the urging of Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, Mr. Volcker clarified that he never intended the rule to constrain market-making. Instead, he advocated "adequate metrics" to track the "tell-tale signs" of proprietary trading. 
Fawning lawmakers urged Mr. Volcker to further inject himself in the regulatory process, but the 84-year-old demurred. 
"Well, I don't want to get involved in the detailed regulatory process," he said. "I've had enough of that in my lifetime."

        
Lawmakers Push for a Final Volcker Rule by the Summer
        
Barney Frank Wants Simpler Volcker Rule by Labor Day

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BAILOUTS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%) Dodd-Frank Act; Paul A. Volcker; Senate Banking Committee; Volcker Rule; Volcker, Paul A; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Senate Committee on Banking; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: Senate Committee on Banking

PERSON: Volcker, Paul A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



359 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Assessing Whether Solar Panels Make Sense for You

BYLINE: DIANE CARDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Many installers will offer to put solar panels on your roof for no money down, but there are several factors to consider when deciding whether the deal makes sense for you. 

 BODY:
As I report in The Times, legions of companies will offer to install a system at no upfront cost and promise customers cheaper, cleaner electricity over the course of 20 years. Some are small and local, while others, including SolarCity, Sunrun, Sungevity and SunEdison, are larger, with national or even international reach. Some large manufacturers, like SolarWorld, even offer financing plans for home installations.
For residential customers, the deals can seem attractive. The company arranging the financing for the system usually owns and operates it, selling the electricity back at a rate generally lower than what the utility would charge. Depending on the company and the state, the details vary. In some cases a customer pays a preset rate for the electricity used, known as a power purchase agreement. In others, the customer leases a system, paying a set monthly charge for a guaranteed amount of power.
Part of the appeal here is that customers can not only reduce their energy costs but fix them for a long period of time, avoiding the unwelcome surprise of a suddenly high bill because, say, natural gas prices have shot up again. Customers also avoid having to figure out how to claim the various incentives and benefits for which they qualify as a renewable energy producer. 
But there are some things to look out for. Going solar does not mean going off the grid. A typical roof array will not handle all of a home's electricity needs since it produces power intermittently. So customers will still get a bill from the utility, though probably a much smaller one. Many contracts also have escalator clauses, with the payments increasing over time, so it is important to determine if your energy costs are likely to go up or down if you were to stick solely with the utility. 
The Department of Energy has an online guide for those considering residential solar and wind power, as do many of the companies offering installation. Some cities, including New York, San Francisco, Boston and Madison, Wis., have online solar maps where residents can estimate the solar capacity of their roofs.
As with a conventional mortgage or car loan, the real cost to customers varies depending on how much they are able to pay up front, and the economics only work for now in places where the cost of electricity from the utility is high, installation companies say. And not everyone is eligible: customers have to have good credit, typically a FICO score of 680 range or above.
Installers say prospective customers should make sure that there are clear terms to credit them if the system does not produce the promised amount of electricity and to repair or replace defective components. And customers should be aware that there is no easy way out of the deal in the event they want to sell their homes. The array generally stays with the house, installers say, so the options include finding a buyer who wants to take over the contract or prepaying the remaining electricity charges and wrapping that into the purchase price. 
Of course, customers can forgo the installers' financing and purchase a system outright. They will usually get the most savings that way because they will have no monthly charge for the amount of electricity the panels produce and they can take advantage of tax breaks, credits and other incentives.
The trade-off there is that the customer is then responsible for maintaining the system. Installers say solar systems are generally reliable, but the panels are not guaranteed past 25 years or so, and the inverters, which convert the direct current the array produces to the alternating current that comes out of a socket, only last around 10 years.

        
SolarCity Raises $100 Million for 2009
        
Now, Democrats Want Solyndra Backers to Testify
        
Sunset for a Solar Subsidy?
        
Solar Start-Up Rakes In Capital
        
A $100 Million Pool for Solar Financing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (67%) solar leases; solar power; solarcity; SunEdison; sungevity; SunRun; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Solar Energy; Energy Department; SolarCity Inc; SolarWorld AG; Sungevity Inc; Business

COMPANY: SOLARCITY CORP (58%); FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Energy Department; SolarCity Inc; SolarWorld AG; Sungevity Inc

TICKER: SCTY (NASDAQ) (58%); FICO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



360 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: For Elliott Management's Singer, Success Lies in Humility

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: Paul Singer, the founder of the $20 billion hedge fund Elliott Management, says growing complacent can lead to "absolute death." 

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- It should come as no surprise that Paul Singer, the founder of the $20 billion hedge fund Elliott Management, is critical of the current administration.
Over pages and pages of letters, he has attacked the Federal Reserve Bank, President Obama and the lack of willingness he sees to curb entitlement programs.
His pen holds no prisoners. If his investor letters are any indication, he even appears stern. He commands an intellectual demeanor with his trim white beard, stoic features and articulated in a cool tongue that is almost frightening.
So one of the most surprising things Mr. Singer had to say on Wednesday, as he sat for an onstage interview at the SALT Conference, was his most important attribute as an investor: Existential humility.
What exactly is that? It's when you grow complacent or start believing your own hype, a condition "that is absolute death," Mr. Singer said.
"'What am I missing?' is a much more important question than 'How cool am I?' " he told the rapt audience, which filled the grand ballroom of the Bellagio here.
Mr. Singer has become an object of media fascination in recent years. His 35-year track record in the industry aside, he has emerged as a significant force in Republican causes, while also being a major backer of the push to legalize same-sex marriage.
For hedge fund followers, however, it has been Mr. Singer's performance as a money manager. He has returned an average of 14 percent a year, over 35 years, and has only lost money in two years: in 1998 and during the financial crisis of 2008, when he lost just 3 percent.
And it was in outlining this track record that Mr. Singer explained his existential humility.
"One of the biggest enemies of our long term portfolio performance is ourselves," he said.
Some of his outlook, he figures, comes from having been a lawyer, and not a Wall Street professional. He quickly realized that there was no way to time market turns.
"No asset was so high that it couldn't go higher, and no asset was so low it couldn't go lower," he said.
And so it was crucial to always be hedged, or protected, he decided, from the outset.
"Risk management and being hedged would occur at Elliott all of the time," he said. "I've never let my guard down by saying I don't need to be hedged."
Mr. Singer also addressed a question weighing heavily on the minds of investors and managers these days: How big is too big, and do returns fall as hedge funds get larger?
He said that the answer depended on the business one was in, but noted his answer to that question had changed over the years. He used to think he could not get much bigger than $50 million, back in the 1980s, when the market for certain securities was still in its infancy.
Now, he says, "that supply has grown so far past Elliott's size," he said.
He figures size these days is a bonus, and told the audience that his portfolio today compares favorably to any portfolio he has ever managed.
The topic of investing merged with his other passion -- turning a skeptical eye toward government. He was asked about an idea for investors in the audience, many wealthy managers themselves.
His answer: Figure out a way to bet against some of the sovereign debt of major nations, which have printed money to stimulate the economy. The debt of countries like the Unites States continues to offer very low yields as investors clamor for safety.
"It's aberrant," he said. "It's a pricing extreme."

        
The Economic Manifesto of Elliott's Paul Singer
        
Director or No, Wall Street's Newest Cop Is Ready for Duty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); MARRIAGE (65%); MARRIAGE LAW (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%) Elliott Associates; Federal Reserve; Paul Singer; President Obama; Salt Conference; same-sex marriage; Hedge Funds

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (74%) NEVADA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



361 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: New Day

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
 Richard G. Lugar, one of the Senate's longest-serving members and a moderate who personified a gentler political era, was turned out of office Tuesday by Richard E. Mourdock, the Indiana state treasurer, Monica Davey reports. Mr. Mourdock's campaign was fueled by millions of dollars from Tea Party groups that deemed Mr. Lugar too willing to compromise.
 Should he prevail in November, Mr. Mourdock, has pledged to cease the efforts at bipartisanship that marked the tenure of Mr. Lugar, and push for a more conservative agenda among Republicans on Capitol Hill, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.
 At the center of theObama message machineis Jim Margolis, and his job is to make you think of call centers in India every time you hear Mitt Romney's name, Jeremy W. Peters writes. After months of planning, Mr. Margolis and his team have prepared an aggressive strategy to portray Mr. Romney as insensitive to the plight of working people and beholden to powerful interests.
 Senior leaders of the Democratic Party fear that a $100 million plan by liberal donors to focus on grass-roots organizing will squander a chance to fend off an advertising onslaught from Republican groups, Jeff Zeleny reports. Concerns from top officials highlight the lingering tensions and frustrations inside the party over the influence of outside money in the campaign and the inability of President Obama's supporters to raise substantial sums for a pro-Obama "super PAC."
 Senate Republicans pulled off their 21st successful filibuster on Tuesday, thwarting a Democratic bill that would prevent the doubling of some student loan interest rates, Jonathan Weisman reports. This may be the highest-profile stalemate yet, with Democrats seeking to raise political pressure and vowing to show the cost of inaction on the Senate floor.
Around the Web:
 ABC News reports that in 2010, United States taxpayers paid $3 million in personal expenses for the country's former presidents, including George W. Bush's phone bills and Bill Clinton's office rent.
 Maurice Sendak, the renowned children's book author and illustrator, died on Tuesday. Here are a few pictures of President Obama reading Mr. Sendak's "Where the Wild Things Are" to a group of children a few weeks ago.
Happenings in Washington:
 President Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will meet with the NATO secretary-general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, in the Oval Office to discuss final preparations for the NATO summit meeting in Chicago at the end of May.
 Later, Mr. Obama and Michelle Obama will attend a concert in the East Room honoring the songwriters Burt Bacharach and Hal David.
 Democratic freshmen from the House will sit down for dinner with Mr. Biden at the Naval Observatory.

        
The Early Word: Report Card
        
The Early Word: Scrambled
        
The Weekend Word: Strategies
        
The Early Word: Bin Laden's Letters
        
The Early Word: Hazards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TELEPHONE RATES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); CALL CENTERS (69%); SONG WRITING (68%); WRITERS (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); STUDENT LOANS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



362 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Brown Releases First TV Ad

BYLINE: JESS BIDGOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Senator Scott P. Brown on Wednesday released the first television ad of his re-election campaign in Massachusetts, highlighting central campaign themes of independence and bipartisanship. 

 BODY:
Senator Scott P. Brown on Wednesday released the first television ad of his re-election campaign in Massachusetts. It is a positive spot that highlights his central campaign themes of independence and bipartisanship.
The 30-second ad opens with a clip of his 2010 victory speech and shows Mr. Brown addressing students and voters.
"Tonight, the independent majority has delivered a great victory," said Mr. Brown, in a cut of the speech he delivered after his upset victory over Martha Coakley, a Democrat, in the special election for Senate seat in January 2010.

Mr. Brown is then seen speaking with students. "There's absolutely nothing in the world you can't get if you work hard at it," he says. This seemed the place to insert the widely circulated video clip of his half-court basketball shot from last month, if his ad-makers were going to use it, but they restrained themselves and did not. He adds in a voice-over: "I've done what I said I was going to do."
The commercial then features a scene from the CBS News show "60 Minutes," known for its hard-hitting investigations. With the "60 Minutes" logo at the front of the screen, Leslie Stahl, the correspondent, is shown succinctly stating Mr. Brown's campaign theme: "He's turned out to be unpredictably independent and beholden to no one," she says.
It remains to be seen whether Ms. Stahl and CBS will object to the political use of their content; in the presidential primaries, Mitt Romney used images of Tom Brokaw to make a political point; Mr. Brokaw and NBC News objected, but the Romney campaign refused to pull the ad.
Mr. Brown goes on to say: "We have more work to do on getting this economy moving again. Working together, we can restore the American Dream for all of us."
In a news release accompanying the video, Mr. Brown's campaign cited a study by Congressional Quarterly calling Mr. Brown the country's second-most bipartisan senator (after Senator Susan Collins, the Maine Republican who endorsed Mr. Brown last week). CQ does not actually measure "bipartisanship" but rather ranks senators based on how often they vote with their own party.
Mr. Brown's campaign said the advertisement would be shown statewide, in the Boston, Springfield, Albany and Providence markets, but would not provide details on its cost.
Mr. Brown is in a tight, expensive race with Elizabeth Warren, the likely Democratic nominee, who last week ran her third television ad. Although this is the first time Mr. Brown's campaign has purchased television time, he has released regular radio ads, called "Scott Brown Radio reports" and several online videos.

        
Brown Calls on Warren to Release Law School Records
        
Warren Continues to Face Questions About American Indian Status
        
Senate Candidates in Massachusetts Release Their Tax Returns
        
Elizabeth Warren Introduces Herself to Massachusetts Voters in New Ad
        
Massachusetts Senate Candidates Look to Limit Outside Advertising

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); BASKETBALL (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%) Elizabeth Warren; Scott Brown; Brown, Scott P; Warren, Elizabeth; Elections; Political Advertising; Massachusetts; Ad Watch

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (95%); ELIZABETH WARREN (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MARTHA COAKLEY (59%) Brown, Scott P; Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



363 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 6828 words

HEADLINE: Obama Expected to Address Gay Marriage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama publicly endorsed same-sex marriage during a television interview, taking a definitive stand on one of the most contentious and politically charged social issues of the day. 

 BODY:
President Obama publicly endorsed same-sex marriage during a television interview, taking a definitive stand on one of the most contentious and politically charged social issues of the day. 
The interview conducted by Robin Roberts, an anchor on ABC's "Good Morning America," was secured in the wake of a declaration by Mr. Obama's vice president, Joseph R. Biden, on Sunday that he was "absolutely comfortable" with same-sex marriages.
We will be providing live updates as events unfold. Follow along here.
7:45 P.M. | Catholic Church Says Americans 'Deserve Better'
Nearly six in ten Catholics support legal marriage for same-sex couples, according to a poll taken in March by the Public Religion Research Institute and Religion News Service. But they are out of step with their bishops, who responded forcefully on Wednesday to the news that President Obama had proclaimed his support for gay marriage.
 Cardinal Timothy Dolan, who is archbishop of New York and president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, said in a statement, "We cannot be silent in the face of words or actions that would undermine the institution of marriage, the very cornerstone of our society. The people of this country, especially our children, deserve better."
 And the Archdiocese of Washington, led by Cardinal Donald Wuerl, also issued a statement which said, " The word 'marriage' describes the exclusive and lifelong union of one man and one woman open to generating and nurturing children. Other unions exist, but they are not marriage."
 The bishops had already announced a campaign to raise awareness about what they see as the threats to religious liberty. Among the threats, they include the decision by the Obama administration not to defend the "Defense of Marriage Act" from legal challenge. Catholic bishops are among the religious leaders who signed a statement in January proclaiming that marriage and religious freedom "stand or fall together."
- 
5:42 P.M. | Cuomo Praises Decision 
ALBANY - Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York commended President Obama at a hastily convened news conference at the Capitol on Wednesday. Here are some of his comments::
"I think this is a major advancement for equal rights in this country. I applaud the president's courage. I believe it will be respected by the people of this country. I think it's going to be a great boost for marriage equality. I think his voice will give people yet another reason to analyze this issue and be open to the issue, and I think it's an exciting development."
"I think the fact that the president of the United States takes this position will cause people around the country to say, 'Well, let me think about this again.' Consistency is nice, but sometimes evolution is smarter. And I think when the president of the United States says, 'I have evolved on this issue, I had this position, today I have this position,' when the president can do that, it says maybe you can do that, maybe we can all do that. And I think that is very powerful. The American people were already evolving on this issue, in my opinion, and I believe public opinion was already changing, but I think the president saying this today will accelerate that re-evaluation.
"When the president stands up and makes this statement, it will now resonate all across this nation. It will bounce off the airwaves from coast to coast, right? He's already, by just doing the interview and making the statement, I think he's made a tremendous contribution to the effort."
"It says to the American people, this is something we're revisiting, and it's O.K. to revisit it, and it's O.K. to re-evaluate it, and if you come out with a different position, that's fine. And that I think is such a boost to this issue, because I genuinely believe if people look at this anew, without a stereotype, and look at what we're talking about, it's a civil definition. It's not a religious issue. It's not a religious debate."
- 
5:31 P.M. | Romney's Response
Mitt Romney responded to President Obama's endorsement of same-sex marriage by drawing a contrast with his own oft-repeated view that "marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman.''
Mr. Romney, who rarely holds news conferences, carved out time after a campaign speech in Oklahoma on Wednesday afternoon to take questions from the news media, putting on the record his take on the big news of the day. But his remarks may be most notable for his decision to underplay his differences with Mr. Obama, rather than to hammer the president on a polarizing issue. He may also have been counting on surrogates to carry a more forceful attack. 
"This is a very tender and sensitive topic,'' Mr. Romney said, "as are many social issues. But I have the same view I've had since, well, since running for office.''
Mr. Romney, who has long fended off accusations of shifting his views on social topics for political expediency, suggested that this time, Mr. Obama may be open to the charge of flip-flopping. 
"He previously said he opposed same-sex marriage," Mr. Romney said in response to a question about whether the president's "evolution" on the subject meant he was inconsistent. "You'll be able to make that determination on your own."
"Thanks, guys," he said, and commenced shaking hands with audience members.
- 
5:26 P.M. | Barney Frank Responds
Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, who is openly gay, praised President Obama's decision to declare his support for gay marriage, saying that it will not cost him votes in November's election.
"I believe it will be clear in the days ahead that this will cost him no votes," Mr. Frank said in the statement, "since those opposed to legal equality for L.G.B.T. people were already inclined to oppose him, and that it will make it easier for us to mobilize the people in this country who oppose discrimination to help re-elect him."
In an interview with The Times' Peter Baker, Mr. Frank said he told the White House months ago that it should not worry about the politics of the issue.
"This country is moving, and what's interesting is every time somebody does something that's supportive of our rights, it turns out to be a) popular and b) not very controversial," he said in a telephone interview.
Many Americans already assumed that Mr. Obama supported same-sex marriage, or at least made little distinction between his decision to abandon the Defense of Marriage Act and his position on gay marriage itself. "Politically," Mr. Frank said, "it's kind of a nonevent."
Mr. Frank said he did not bother to call the White House to lobby after Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said on Sunday's "Meet the Press" that he supported gay marriage because it was clear where the president really stood and where he would eventually come out publicly. "I figured it was easy and I didn't want to use up a nickel on that one," he said.
- 
5:20 P.M. | Religious Leaders React 
The Rev. Richard D. Land, president of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, said in an interview that he was both "saddened and mystified" by the president's declaration, but could not predict how it would play politically.
"When the president comes out in favor of something it has an impact, and that saddens me because I think embracing same-sex marriage would be a terrible mistake for the country," he said.
He said he had just received phone calls from two black Southern Baptist ministers who said they could no longer vote for the president, and he added, "I know the president is a really smart man, and his campaign staff are really smart, but they have to know it was black votes that carried the opposition to same-sex marriage to victory in California."
Perhaps the president is simply taking a stand based on his beliefs, Mr. Land said. "It may be a profile in courage."
The Rev. Leith Anderson, president of the National Association of Evangelicals, an umbrella group that represents 45,000 churches in 40 denominations, also expressed disappointment. "The evangelical community is broadly committed to define marriage as between one man and one woman and will not accept an unbiblical definition," he said.
But the Rev. Susan Russell, a senior associate pastor at All Saints Church, an Episcopal church in Pasadena, Calif., and a nationally known advocate for gay marriage, said in a statement, "Today our president showed us what leadership looks like by affirming that the equal protection guaranteed by the Constitution should actually protect all Americans, including those Americans married to spouses of the same sex."
She said she was particularly gratified to hear President Obama explain that his faith was at the root of his decision. She added, "The question the church should be asking is not 'Who do you love?' but ' you love?' "
- 
4:50 P.M. | More 'Reaching the Same Conclusion'
About an hour after President Obama's remarks on gay marriage were released, House Speaker John A. Boehner sent out a disapproving Twitter post. It concerned Democrats and their student loan rates legislation.
There was largely the sound of silence from Congressional Republicans on Wednesday on the gay marriage issue, but one Republican who hopes to join them - an openly gay former minority leader in the Massachusetts Senate now running for a House seat - said he hoped that his party would evolve on the issue.
"More and more people are reaching the same conclusion that the president reached: that everyone should be treated fair and equally under the law," said Richard Tisei, who is not married, but lives with his partner of 18 years in a house on Main Street in Wakefield, Mass. He is challenging Representative John Tierney for his seat in the Sixth Congressional District.
"You'll never have true equality in the country unless you have advocates on both sides of the aisle," Mr. Tisei said. "To the extent that I can help make that case within the Republican Party just by being there, it will help to make the difference."
Mr. Tisei said he welcomed Mr. Obama's statements, even as other Republicans derided them as politically charged. "It's s a good thing for the country," he said, "and conversations are taking place all over the country on a very personal way. Everybody's opinions are evolving on this. I think over time we will all get to the same place."
- 
4:43 P.M. | Theories of Evolution
Why did President Obama declare his support for same-sex marriage now?
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s comments over the weekend "expedited" the president's timing in making his announcement, aides said in interviews on Wednesday, but it did not help shape his decision. The president has gradually reached his position over the last year, advisers said, and was particularly influenced last year when legislators in New York voted to legalize same-sex marriage.
"He sat back and thought, 'What would I do?' " a senior adviser to the president said. "He would have voted yes."
For a White House and a re-election campaign that is known for its painstaking planning and strategic thinking, the rollout of Mr. Obama's position on same-sex marriage came swiftly, particularly on a topic so fraught with political peril. Several advisers to the president said Wednesday that Mr. Obama had always intended to declare his support before the election, but they had yet to decide when and how to make the announcement. Aides said it would have been among the distinctions that he intended to draw between himself and Mitt Romney, his Republican opponent.
Even after Mr. Biden created a stir by saying he was comfortable with same-sex marriage during a weekend interview on NBC's "Meet the Press," advisers to Mr. Obama were still unsure how to proceed. When it became clear that the controversy was not going away, they decided to jump ahead and make the announcement, even though some strategists disagreed with the timing.
"Most people who would cast a vote against gay marriage already weren't voting for him," an adviser said in an interview, speaking on the condition of anonymity to talk frankly about internal deliberations.
At the same time the president's interview was being aired by ABC News, the White House sent out an urgent list of confidential talking points to Democrats about Mr. Obama's position on same-sex marriage. The list made clear that the administration hoped to frame the announcement around values.
"In the end, the values that the president cares most deeply about is how we treat other people," the memorandum said. "The president and first lady are both practicing Christians, and obviously this position may be considered to put them at odds with the views of others, but when we think about our faith, the thing at root that we think about is not only Christ sacrificing himself on our behalf, but it's also the golden rule: Treat others the way you'd want to be treated."
The memorandum from the White House also made clear that he was expressing his personal view and that it was not an issue for the federal government to address.
"We make it absolutely clear that we are talking about civil marriages and civil laws," the memorandum said. "This isn't a federal issue. We must be respectful of religious liberty, that churches and other faith institutions are still going to be able to make determinations about what their sacraments are, what they recognize."
- 
4:34 P.M. | Too Late for North Carolina?
In March, the Obama administration weighed in on the proposed North Carolina amendment to ban same-sex unions, with a statement that the president did not support what he saw as "divisive and discriminatory efforts to deny rights and benefits to same-sex couples."
But it was less than 24 hours after the amendment passed, by a margin of more than 20 percentage points, that Mr. Obama gave his personal feelings on the matter. Too late?
"I don't think it would have made a difference," said Jeremy Kessler, the campaign manager for the Coalition to Protect All NC Families, a group that fought the amendment. "On a personal level, yes, I wish he would have done it months ago, but as far as our campaign in North Carolina you could not have had a longer list of endorsers."
While he said he had no direct knowledge about the timing of Mr. Obama's announcement and whether it was prompted by the campaign in North Carolina, Mr. Kessler said he believed that there was a connection.
"I know that they were testing the waters there and seeing how it played out," he said of the administration. "In the weeks leading up to the election, there was increased pressure from the media and the L.G.B.T. community to do more."
"This wasn't just a conversation we had in North Carolina," he added. "It was a national conversation."
- 
4:19 P.M. | Gay Marriage and Black Voters
The president's announcement on same-sex marriage will definitely not play well with one key Obama constituency: African-Americans, many of whom are conservative when it comes to gay rights, despite the obvious irony of their own support for the civil rights movement in the 1960s.
While many political strategists don't expect black voters to turn away from their overwhelming support for the president in November, many black voters - particularly ones who are affiliated with the church - are still bound to be piqued, said Jamal Simmons, a Democratic strategist who is black.
"I was in church a month ago, and there was the 40-year-old black pastor, organizing Maryland voters to stand up for traditional marriage between a man and a woman," Mr. Simmons said in an interview. "It won't be a pill that goes down easy in the black community."
Indeed, about half of 23 African-American voters interviewed in North Carolina for a recent article on Mr. Obama and the black vote expressed anger at Mr. Obama for supporting the end of "don't ask, don't tell" and the ban on gays in the military. That said, every single one of those voters said they would vote for the president in November anyway.
- 
4:19 P.M. | Gay Former Romney Aide Says Obama's Motives Are Political
Richard Grenell, the gay Republican foreign policy aide who resigned from his job on the Mitt Romney campaign last week after the religious right raised objections, wasn't cutting Mr. Obama much slack on Wednesday. "While I am pleased with President Obama's new decision, it's important to keep politicians from playing politics with a group's civil rights," Mr. Grenell said in an interview. "The president's timing suggests that he is once again more concerned with his own political calculations than with actual equal rights. The president could have evolved when the Democrats controlled the House and the Senate, or even yesterday, before the swing state of North Carolina voted."
- 
4:02 P.M. | Michelle Obama's Contribution
Before Barack Obama became the first president to support gay marriage, he was the first president to be so thoroughly surrounded by people who support gay marriage. Many of his donors are gay, and so are quite a few of his staff members, including his social secretary and the aides who made this moving video about their lifelong quests to accept themselves and to be accepted.
But how influential has the president's wife - the person closest to him - been?
The first lady is impassioned about fairness, aides say, and she has confessed to impatience with the pace of change her husband has been able to accomplish. Though she does not interfere in day-to-day policy matters, she has helped guard and protect the original mission of the Obama presidency: to be ambitious, rise above Washington battles and make the nation more equal and just. When Mr. Obama wanted to overhaul health care and immigration laws, she backed and bolstered him against the advice of aides who urged a more cautious approach.
So did Michelle Obama urge her husband to publicly support gay marriage? White House aides, who prefer to keep the first lady's influence private, have been loath to answer the question. But Mrs. Obama has made at least one significant contribution to the West Wing debate on gay marriage, by hiring the soft-spoken, spotlight-averse Kristina Schake.
Ms. Schake is the first lady's communications director, with the day job of carefully managing Michelle Obama's image. But it's hard to name another White House aide with her level of experience in the fight to legalize gay marriage. Her specialty is conducting years-long campaigns to influence public opinion, gently rinsing controversy from issues. In the early 1990s she helped win passage of a statewide California ballot measure that resulted in a new tax on tobacco products used to fund early childhood education programs to the tune of a billion dollars a year.
Before arriving at the White House in late 2010, Ms. Schake was one of the leading architects in California's fight for gay marriage, initiating a lawsuit against Proposition 8, the state's ban on gay marriage, along with Chad Griffin, then her business partner, now president of the Human Rights Campaign and a top Obama donor. She worked on recasting gay partners as upstanding mothers and fathers who just wanted to be married like all the other parents in the PTA - for instance, placing a flattering story about the lead plaintiffs in magazine, showing them as committed partners with sons on the swim team and a Craftsman-style home littered with lacrosse equipment.
The inside story of the president's shift has not yet emerged, but Ms. Schake is a top suspect on the list of insiders who may have influenced his position and strategy. "She's one of the most intelligent and valuable resources the equality movement has ever seen," Mr. Griffin said when she left for Washington.
- 
3:54 P.M. | Perkins Says Position Will Hurt Obama Politically
Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council, said in a statement that Mr. Obama had ended his "hypocrisy" on the issue. And he predicted that the president's support of gay marriage would work against him as he fights for re-election.
"Considering that 10 of the 16 battleground states have marriage amendments that could be overturned by the president's new policy position on marriage, today's announcement almost ensures that marriage will again be a major issue in the presidential election," Mr. Perkins said.
- 
3:50 P.M. | Conservatives Say Obama Is Trying to Distract
 Gary Bauer, president of American Values, a conservative organization that opposes same-sex marriage, faulted Mr. Obama for spending time on the issue.
 "Every American who can't find work, whose home is underwater or who can't afford to fill up his gas tank should be wondering why the president is spending even one second of his time thinking about how to radically transform the institution of marriage," Mr. Bauer said in a statement. "It's a political move meant to energize his left-wing base and distract Americans from his disastrous economic policies."
- 
3:41 P.M. | ABC Kept Obama News Under Wraps
The news of President Obama's decision to support same-sex marriage rights managed to do something that stories rarely do in today's millisecond news cycle: It didn't leak on Twitter first.
Instead, ABC News rolled out its exclusive interview with the president in old-school fashion by broadcasting a special report - that vestige of the pre-Internet, pre-cable news era when the networks had no other option for breaking news.
ABC managed to keep its scoop under tight wraps for more than an hour, despite intense interest and a newsroom full of itchy-fingered, Twitter-savvy journalists who were no doubt dying to get the story out.
At 1:30 p.m., Robin Roberts sat down with Mr. Obama at the White House. It wasn't until 2:58 p.m. that ABC News broke into regularly scheduled programming. "General Hospital" viewers would have to wait.
ABC News was evidently aware of the likelihood that the news would leak before its special broadcast, so it told staff members to keep quiet. 
But that didn't stop journalists from speculating. They took to Twitter, naturally.
At 2:07 p.m., a reporter for The Huffington Post, Michael Calderone, posted on Twitter: "I hear ABC staffers told not to tweet until green lighted - don't want anything reported out of turn."
One minute later, the ABC News senior White House correspondent, Jake Tapper, teased his 172,000 Twitter followers, writing, "tweet tweet tweet tweet." 
The only inkling of what was coming originated with ABC News itself, which published a headline on ABCNews.com "Obama: Same-sex marriage should be legal" a few minutes before the special report. 
- 
3:39 P.M. | Romney Reiterates Opposition to Same-Sex Marriage
Mitt Romney restated his opposition to same-sex marriage hours earlier. "Well, when these issues were raised in my state of Massachusetts," he told KDVR-TV, a Fox News affiliate in Colorado, "I indicated my view, which is I do not favor marriage between people of the same gender, and I do not favor civil unions if they are identical to marriage other than by name. My view is the domestic partnership benefits, hospital visitation rights and the like are appropriate, but that the others are not."
- 
3:37 P.M. | Administration Officials React
Fred P. Hochberg, the president of the Export-Import Bank, is one of the most senior openly gay officials in the Obama administration. In an interview Wednesday, Mr. Hochberg said he had not spoken with President Obama about his change of position on marriage equality. But he said he had received a call from the White House about the announcement and had applauded Mr. Obama's new position.
"The president has always stood up for freedom and always stood up for equality, and this is a continuation of that," Mr. Hochberg said. "I'm obviously delighted."
- 
3:35 P.M. | Contrast With Romney
In endorsing same-sex marriage on Wednesday, President Obama has offered voters the sharpest possible contrast with his presumptive Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, on a social issue that polls show still evenly divides the country.
Mr. Romney has repeatedly said he opposed marriage for gay and lesbian couples and supported a constitutional amendment to ban such unions, arguing that marriage must be limited to heterosexuals.
And whereas Mr. Obama has long supported civil unions, Mr. Romney opposes many forms of them, as he laid out in an interview on Wednesday.
"My view is the same as it's been from the beginning, which is I don't favor civil unions if it's identical to marriage, and I don't favor marriage between people of the same gender," Mr. Romney told a local CBS affiliate in Denver.
Asked why he opposed civil unions, in particular, he explained that in many cases they are marriage for gay couples by a different name.
"If a civil union is identical to marriage other than with the name, why, I don't support that," he said on Wednesday.
Mr. Romney said he favored bestowing certain rights on same-sex couples, like hospital visitation rights, saying, "Benefits of that nature may well be appropriate, and states are able to make a provision for the determination of those kinds of rights."
Democrats contend that like Mr. Obama's views, Mr. Romney's feelings about gay rights have evolved: in 1994, Mr. Romney vowed to seek "full equality" for gays and lesbians, in a letter to the Log Cabin Republicans of Massachusetts.
In that letter, he argued that he was more supportive of gay rights than his Democratic opponent at the time, Senator Edward M. Kennedy.
- 
3:26 P.M. | How Will Obama Engage in Political Debate?
Mr. Obama's new position on same-sex marriage may raise the question of whether - and how - he plans to engage the political debate about the issue, which continues to rage in states around the country.
The president has already directed his Justice Department not to defend the federal Defense Against Marriage Act in federal court. But many of the political debates are happening on the state level.
Mr. Obama's support for gay marriage could put pressure on him to oppose referendums like the one that passed in North Carolina on Tuesday. But according to a transcript of the interview posted by ABC News, Mr. Obama stressed that his was a personal position and that he still supported the idea that states should decide the issue on their own.
- 
3:25 P.M. | G.O.P. Gay Rights Group Responds - Tepidly
 GOProud, a Republican gay rights group, offered praise - tepidly - for President Obama's statement.
"It is good to see that after intense political pressure that President Obama has finally come around to the Dick Cheney position on marriage equality," said Christopher Barron, a co-founder of the group. "I am sure, however, the president's newly discovered support for marriage is cold comfort to the gay couples in North Carolina. The president waited until after North Carolina passed a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage."
He added: "This is hardly a profile in courage by President Obama. For years now, President Obama has tried his hardest to have it both ways on this issue."
- 
3:23 P.M. | More Reaction on Obama's Statement
"I'm almost in tears," said Steve Clemons, a foreign policy blogger and the director of the American Strategy Program at the New America Foundation. "This is a major historic moment." Mr. Clemons, who is gay and who married Andrew Oros in California in 2008, expressed euphoria, but added that he was struggling to figure out what made Mr. Obama come out in favor of gay marriage now. "Maybe it's his response to the Karl Roves out there," Mr. Clemons said. "He could be saying: 'You want to have a culture war? Bring it on.' "
He said the announcement would ignite progressives at a time when there was some ambivalence on the Democratic left as to how forcefully to support Mr. Obama's re-election bid. He compared that ambivalence to the same ambivalence that evangelicals on the Republican right have had toward Mitt Romney, Mr. Obama's likely opponent in November. But now, in one single step, Mr. Obama, at least, has erased any ambivalence his base might feel toward his candidacy, Mr. Clemons said.
- 
3:15 P.M. | Obama Says He Was Influenced by Daughters
In the interview, Mr. Obama said he was also influenced by conversations with his daughters, who have friends with gay parents.
"Malia and Sasha, it wouldn't dawn on them that somehow their friends' parents would be treated differently," Mr. Obama said in the interview, according to a partial transcript posted on ABC's Web site. "It doesn't make sense to them, and frankly, that's the kind of thing that prompts a change in perspective."
He also said he had discussed the issue at length with his wife, Michelle. He stressed the tension he felt between the desire to treat people equally and the concerns of those whose religious beliefs lead them to oppose same-sex marriage.
"The thing at root that we think about is, not only Christ sacrificing himself on our behalf, but it's also the golden rule; you know, treat others the way you would want to be treated," he said. "And I think that's what we try to impart to our kids and that's what motivates me as president."
- 
3:17 P.M. | Reaction From Supporters of Gay Marriage
Supporters of same-sex marriage were quick to rush out statements. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, said President Obama's statement would aid efforts to overturn the Defense of Marriage Act, which bars federal recognition of same-sex marriage: "The president's unequivocal support today in favor of all committed couples to marry the person they love is a watershed moment in American history that will provide the leadership needed to finally repeal DOMA and win the unfinished fight for equality for all Americans."
And Michael Keegan, president of People for the American Way, a liberal interest group, said: "Today the president did the right thing. For thousands of supporters who donated, canvassed and phone-banked to help elect Barack Obama in 2008, this is a powerful reminder of why we felt so passionately about this president in the first place."
- 
3:15 P.M. | Polling and Ballot Measures Disagree on Gay Marriage
 The central question about the politics of gay marriage is whether to believe public opinion polls or ballot measures.
 Public opinion polls offer ample reason to think that same-sex marriage may be popular with a majority of swing voters. A recent Gallup poll found that 57 percent of independents said same-sex marriage should be legal, compared with only 40 percent who said it should not be. Similarly, the Pew Research Center reports that 47 percent of people it identifies as swing voters are in favor, while 39 percent are opposed. "By and large." Andrew Kohut, Pew's president, wrote in an e-mail, "swing voters do not hold strong opinions about this issue pro or con."
 But again and again, in state after state, voters have rejected same-sex marriage in ballot initiatives, often by voting for a ban on it, as North Carolina did on Tuesday by a wide majority. Rachel Weiner of The Washington Post notes that gay marriage has been 0 for 32 at the polls since 1998. The rejections have come in liberal states, like California, Maine and Oregon, as well as conservative and swing states.
 What explains the difference? Turnout is surely one factor: opponents may be more energized to vote against the issue than supporters are to vote for it. Older voters, most of whom oppose same-sex marriage, also have higher turnout rates than younger voters.
 Yet the pattern at the ballot box is consistent enough - through off-year elections and in presidential years - that turnout may not be the only explanation. Inside the ballot box, Americans still tend to vote against same-sex marriage in greater numbers than they vote for it. So President Obama clearly seems to be taking some political risk by publicly switching his position on the issue during his re-election campaign.
- 
3:10 P.M. | Immediate Reaction From Gay Rights Groups
Several gay rights groups were quick to react to the president's statements Wednesday afternoon. 
 Joe Solmonese, Human Rights Campaign President
"Today, President Obama made history by boldly stating that gay and lesbian Americans should be fully and equally part of the fabric of American society and that our families deserve nothing less than the equal respect and recognition that comes through marriage. 
"His presidency has shown that our nation can move beyond its shameful history of discrimination and injustice. In him, millions of young Americans have seen that their futures will not be limited by what makes them different. In supporting marriage equality, President Obama extends that message of hope to a generation of young lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans, helping them understand that they too can be who they are and flourish as part of the American community. And his words remind gay and lesbian families across the country, who, like their neighbors, struggle to afford health care and college for their kids, pay their taxes and plan for retirement - but with the added burden of discrimination - that they do not face those challenges alone and unheard. 
"Americans fundamentally believe in fairness, but many, like the president, have struggled to reconcile that core belief and the question of marriage equality. The president's words will no doubt inspire thousands more conversations around kitchen tables and in church pews. We are confident that our nation will continue to move inexorably toward equality and we thank the president for so boldly leading us in that direction." 
Chad Griffin, Incoming Human Rights Campaign President
"President Obama's words today will be celebrated by generations to come. For the millions of young gay and lesbian Americans across this nation, President Obama's words provide genuine hope that they will be the first generation to grow up with the freedom to fully pursue the American dream. Marriage - the promise of love, companionship and family - is basic to the pursuit of that dream. Our Constitution's promise, the promise of liberty, is one that every generation must realize. As President Obama recognized today, the fight to secure marriage equality is the defining element of our generation's search for greater freedom."
- 
3:04 P.M. | Obama Declares Support for Gay Marriage
Video From ABC News
President Obama declared for the first time on Wednesday that he supports same-sex marriage, putting the moral power of his presidency behind a social issue that continues to divide the country.
"At a certain point,," Mr. Obama said in an interview in the Cabinet Room at the White House with ABC's Robin Roberts, "I've just concluded that for me personally, it is important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same-sex couples should be able to get married."
The comments end years of public equivocating over the divisive social issue for the president, who has previously said he opposed gay marriage but repeatedly said his position on the issue was "evolving" because of contact with friends and others who are gay.
Mr. Obama's remarks - with which he became the first sitting president to support extending the rights and status of marriage to gay couples - came after longstanding pressure from gay rights activists, who are among his most loyal constituents but have been frustrated by his refusal to weigh in on the issue. 
But the decision to risk the potential political damage in an election year by coming out in favor of same-sex marriages appears to have been driven by the unexpected declarations of support for gay marriage by his vice president and several cabinet members.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said on Sunday that he was "absolutely comfortable" with the idea of gay Americans marrying each other. Arne Duncan, the secretary education, said a day later that he flatly supported gay marriage.
After days of repeated questions by journalists about the president's position on the issue, White House officials reached out to ABC News late Tuesday night to arrange the Wednesday afternoon interview at the White House.
In the interview, Mr. Obama spoke about how his views about same-sex marriage have changed over the years, in part because of prodding from friends who are gay.
"I had hesitated on gay marriage in part because I thought that civil unions would be sufficient," Mr. Obama told Ms. Roberts. "I was sensitive to the fact that for a lot of people, the word 'marriage' was something that invokes very powerful traditions and religious beliefs."
But he added, "I've always been adamant that gay and lesbian Americans should be treated fairly and equally."
Read More
- 
3:02 P.M. | Mayor Bloomberg Reacts
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, who has become a forceful advocate for gay, marriage, called President Obama's statement on same-sex marriage "a major turning point in the history of American civil rights."
"No American president has ever supported a major expansion of civil rights that has not ultimately been adopted by the American people - and I have no doubt that this will be no exception," Mr. Bloomberg said.
He continued: "The march of freedom that has sustained our country since the Revolution of 1776 continues, and no matter what setbacks may occur in a given state, freedom will triumph over fear and equality will prevail over exclusion. Today's announcement is a testament to the President's convictions, and it builds on the courageous stands that so many Americans have taken over the years on behalf of equal rights for gay and lesbian Americans, stretching all the way back to the Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village."
- 
3:02 P.M. | 'Same-Sex Marriage Should be Legal'
Video: Interview excerpt from ABCNews.com
- 
2:58 P.M. | Swing States and Same-Sex Mariage
Pennsylvania: A majority say that marriage between same sex-couples should be legally recognized. In a December 2011 poll conducted by Muhlenberg College's Institute of Public Opinion, 52 percent said marriages between gay and lesbian couples should be recognized by law as valid, up from about a third who said so in 2004. And nearly 6 in 10 said they would oppose a constitutional amendment barring same-sex marriage.
Virginia: Support for gay marriage is somewhat mixed. A Quinnipiac University poll conducted in June 2011 found half of voters opposed to a law allowing same-sex couples to get married, while about 4 in 10 voters supported same-sex marriage. A Washington Post poll conducted a few months earlier found 47 percent of Virginians saying it should be legal for gay and lesbian couples to get married, and 43 percent saying it should be illegal.
North Carolina: Two-thirds of the state's residents support legal recognition of same-sex couples, and 6 in 10 oppose an amendment to the state's constitution, passed on Tuesday, that prevents same-sex marriage, domestic partnerships or civil unions, according to a poll conducted by Elon University. 
In the poll, conducted March 26-29 with 534 adults statewide, 38 percent said they favored full marriage rights for same-sex couples, 29 percent favored civil unions or partnerships and 29 percent opposed any legal recognition of same-sex couples' relationship. A third of those surveyed said they would support the amendment; 61 percent opposed the amendment. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Iowa: Same-sex marriage became legal in April 2009. According to a poll taken in February 2011 for The Des Moines Register, Iowans were split over the decision of the state's Supreme Court to allow gay and lesbian couples to marry there. 
A third favored the court's decision, 37 percent opposed it and 30 percent said they did not care much one way or the other. Similarly, 35 percent said they would vote in favor of a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage in Iowa and 38 percent would have voted against such an amendment, while a quarter said they wouldn't vote. The statewide telephone poll was conducted with 800 adults by Selzer and Company and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. 
New Hampshire: Like the political calendar, the Granite State followed quickly after Iowa. Legislation for same-sex marriage was signed in June 2009 and it became legal on Jan. 1, 2010. There have been failed efforts to repeal the law, most recently this March. There was strong opposition to this attempt to revoke the law.
According a University of New Hampshire Granite Poll, while a third supported the effort to repeal gay marriage in New Hampshire, 59 percent opposed it. The statewide poll was conducted Jan. 25-Feb. 2 with 521 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. 
- 
2:56 P.M. | Age Is a Significant Factor in Views on Same-Sex Marriage
The Pew Research Center has compiled a series of graphic timelines on public opinion of gay marriage dating back to 2001, and one of the most influential factors in the last decade's shift toward wider approval appears to be age. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); RELIGION (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); INTERVIEWS (92%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); POLITICS (79%); COHABITATION (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



364 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Fifth Down)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Ban College Football? Breaking Down a Debate

BYLINE: JOHN WILLIAMS


HIGHLIGHT: Malcolm Gladwell and Buzz Bissinger teamed up to debate Tim Green and Jason Whitlock on the topic of banning college football -- and the audience was swayed. 

 BODY:
Two prominent writers debated the idea of banning college football on Tuesday night at New York University's Skirball Center against two journalists, who also happened to be former players. Buzz Bissinger (the author of the high school football book "Friday Night Lights") and Malcolm Gladwell (the best-selling author and New Yorker staff writer who compared football to dogfighting) want to get rid of football on campus. Tim Green (a former N.F.L. defensive end) and Jason Whitlock (a Fox Sports correspondent who played football in college) want it to stay.
Bissinger and Gladwell won in a romp. Before hearing the arguments, audience members were asked their opinion, and 16 percent were for the resolution to ban college football; 53 percent were against. At the end of the night, 53 percent were for it and 39 percent against. The undecided vote had plunged from 31 percent to 8 percent. N.Y.U., it should be noted, does not have a football team. (You can watch the full video of the debate here.)
The vote was one reliable gauge during a night that otherwise cried out for real-time fact-checking, as both sides energetically spewed statistics - several of them contradictory - about graduation rates, hours devoted to studying, money spent on athletics and the incidence of injury in various sports.
Superficially, the splenetic Bissinger and the wispy Gladwell made an odd team. Gladwell, a Canadian, joked that in his home country "a debate isn't really a debate, it's simply an alternate mechanism of reaching consensus." Bissinger cut off his own opening remarks, which he bellowed to the rafters and which echoed a recent Op-Ed column he wrote in The Wall Street Journal, in a disgusted tone: "I'm done."

Green and Whitlock repeatedly said college football was not perfect, and that they would modify any number of things about it, from the number of games played to its economic structure. (Suggestions that players be compensated financially were met with applause from the audience.) But Gladwell was not amenable to modifications, calling the idea that brain injuries could be minimized by better helmets or medical care "a fantasy."
"I've seen pictures of the brain scans of people with C.T.E.," he said, referring to a trauma-induced disease, "and it looks like someone drove a truck across their brain."
Green, eloquent, self-contained and square-jawed (of Tuesday night's participants, you would undoubtedly want him delivering your closing statement on a network legal drama), said he had "grave concerns" about concussions, but also denied the problem was as widespread or severe as Gladwell implied. Citing a study from the University of North Carolina, he said there were more direct fatalities in lacrosse, water polo and baseball than football, so why not ban those sports?
Whitlock earned laughs by calling his opponents "two of the brightest minds that dabble in sports," but quickly said he did not mean that in a denigrating way. He spoke movingly about what the sport meant to him when he played at Ball State, and said college football was the "highest level of the melting pot," uniting people from varied backgrounds in a common cause ("the poor and the rich, the black and the white, the Jews and the gentiles"). Bissinger later playfully challenged him, "If you can name four Jews who played football, you win the debate."
In his closing remarks, Gladwell said, "The most surprising thing about this debate to me at the end is that we only mentioned the name Junior Seau twice. And to my mind, Junior Seau's shadow is cast over this whole evening."
Seau, an N.F.L. linebacker for 20 years starting in 1990, committed suicide last week at the age of 43. Like Dave Duerson, another former N.F.L. player who committed suicide in February 2011, Seau shot himself in the chest. Duerson's brain was later studied, and it was determined that he suffered from chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative disease caused by repeated trauma to the head. Gladwell devoted a lot of time to C.T.E., and argued that universities "should not be in the business of encouraging young men to hit themselves over the head." He also played up the image of himself as an outsider who does not understand this country's obsession with football. "Why can't they row?!" he shouted at one point. He also offered a protracted proposal for how competitive games of Monopoly could replace football as a central feature of campus life.
Near the end of the night, Green said to Bissinger: "I don't understand why opportunities for student-athletes makes you so angry." Anyone familiar with Bissinger's notorious, obscenity-laced work on Twitter knows that his anger is a subject too large and complex for any one debate. For one night, at least, all we can know is that his anger helped propel him to victory.

        
In Court, Easterling Suicide Is the Focus
        
Football, Baseball and the Evolving Tastes of Fans
        
In Nike's Rollout, Flash Everywhere but in Uniforms
        
Casting Begins for Tebow, the Sequel
        
Super Bowl XLVI: Giants 21, Patriots 17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); SPORTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS INJURIES (89%); BRAIN INJURIES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (86%); BRAIN (86%); CELEBRITIES (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); BESTSELLERS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); GRADUATION RATES (72%) Concussions; Football; Bissinger, Buzz; Gladwell, Malcolm; Green, Tim; Seau, Junior; Whitlock, Jason; Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (71%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: Bissinger, Buzz; Gladwell, Malcolm; Green, Tim; Seau, Junior; Whitlock, Jason

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



365 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Support for Gay Marriage Outweighs Opposition in Polls

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's decision to endorse same-sex marriage undoubtedly entails some political risk, but recent polls suggest that public opinion is increasingly on his side. 

 BODY:
President Obama's decision to endorse same-sex marriage undoubtedly entails some political risk, but recent polls suggest that public opinion is increasingly on his side.
According to surveys included in the PollingReport.com database, an average of 50 percent of American adults support same-sex marriage rights while 45 percent oppose it, based on an average of nine surveys conducted in the past year. 
This is a reversal from earlier periods: support for same-sex marriage has been increasing, and opposition to it has been decreasing, at a relatively steady rate of perhaps two or three percentage points a year since 2004.
It should be remembered that support for same-sex marriage in polls has not necessarily translated into support at the ballot booth. On Tuesday, North Carolina became the latest state to adopt a Constitutional ban on same-sex marriage and did so by a margin of about 20 percentage points, somewhat larger than polls forecast. The North Carolina measure also banned domestic partnerships and other types of civil unions.
Still, even if polls have sometimes overstated support for same-sex marriage, and if some of the Americans who support same-sex marriage are less likely to turn out to vote than those who oppose it, the issue now seems to have a bit of wiggle room, with supporters slightly outnumbering opponents in recent national surveys. In addition, there is no longer evidence of an "enthusiasm gap" with respect to same-sex marriage: an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll in March found that 32 percent of Americans said they strongly favored same-sex marriage, while 31 percent strongly opposed it.
Mr. Obama's electoral calculation may hinge upon three questions related to the politics of the Democratic and Republican base. Social issues often do more to reinforce the loyalties of each party's core voting groups than to sway the opinions of swing voters, especially in middling economic circumstances.
First, there is the question of how much emphasis Republicans will choose to place on gay marriage, which could motivate their base but increasingly divide Republican voters and independent ones. Next, how much might Mr. Obama's stance be embraced or opposed by African-Americans, who have more conservative attitudes about same-sex marriage than other Democrats? Finally, could the issue motivate younger liberals and Democrats, who tend to support same-sex marriage, to turn out for Mr. Obama when they might not otherwise?
Nevertheless, with the broader shift in public opinion, Mr. Obama is not accepting the same risks by endorsing same-sex marriage that he would have even a year or two ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); MARRIAGE (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%) Politics

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



366 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Extend Charter of Export-Import Bank

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The House sided with business groups over conservative activists who wanted Republicans to let the bank's charter lapse at the end of this month. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The House on Wednesday overwhelmingly voted to extend the life of the Export-Import Bank, siding with business groups over conservative activists who wanted Republicans to let the bank's charter lapse at the end of this month.
The 330-to-93 vote is expected to propel the extension to final passage before May 31, when the bank's statutory lending authority is set to expire, along with its authorization. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, said the Senate would quickly take up the House bill and try to pass it unchanged, eliminating the need for House-Senate negotiations on a final version.
That seemingly smooth path to President Obama's desk belies the rancor that led up to the House vote. Conservative political groups like the Club for Growth and Heritage Action for America, the Wall Street Journal editorial page and the Cato Institute have spent months lambasting the government-chartered bank as a big-business boondoggle that could become the next Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, leaving taxpayers on the hook for billions of dollars in loan guarantees. With the bank's legal authorization expiring in a matter of weeks, the groups appealed to Republicans up to the last minute Wednesday, saying they had a rare opportunity to kill off a government institution.
 On the other side, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers mobilized an army of business people to plead the case that the bank is vital to ensure financing for overseas customers. Without the bank, American exports - one of the bright spots in the delicate economic recovery - would suffer greatly.
 Amid that clash, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, and Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the House minority whip, hashed out a compromise for a three-year reauthorization that would increase the bank's lending limit to $140 billion over three years, a 40 percent increase from the current $100 billion limit, which the bank has almost reached. It would also mandate a series of government audits and report requirements that critics say is necessary to ensure that the institution is not exposing taxpayers to great risk, and it would require the Treasury secretary to start multilateral negotiations aimed at ending government export subsidies internationally.
 In the end, the vote appeared to show that old guard business groups still have muscle in the Tea Party era. All 93 no votes were by Republicans.
 Representative Tom McClintock, Republican of California, mocked the bank for subsidizing the sales of "that plucky little upstart called Boeing" and blasted colleagues for saying that ending the bank's charter would amount to unilateral disarmament against other countries with even larger export banks.
"Other nations want to impoverish themselves in this manner. We don't need to imitate them," he said.
The Chamber of Commerce may have aided reauthorization's cause by unleashing a wave of new advertising, largely to lift Republican candidates ahead of the fall elections.
 "Today we are ending the uncertainty for American manufacturers waiting for Congress to act by coming together to reauthorize the U.S. Export-Import Bank," Mr. Hoyer said on the House floor.
In an interview, Fred P. Hochberg, the president of the Export-Import Bank, described the House vote as "a big step forward to taking uncertainty away for American exporters."
He said that the bank would respond to Congress's concerns about its financial stability, ensuring that it kept defaults on its loan portfolio to a minimum. "I believe we have been prudent with taxpayer money," Mr. Hochberg said. "But this is a reminder that we have to be mindful that if defaults were to run at a higher level, we have to continue to be responsible."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); DISARMAMENT (60%); AUDITS (60%) Hochberg, Fred P; Banking and Financial Institutions; Export-Import Bank of US; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); BOEING CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%) Export-Import Bank of US

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STENY HOYER (58%) Hochberg, Fred P

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012



367 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: As Tech Hub, City Is 2nd to Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City's budding technology industry is growing rapidly by attracting investors and engineering talent despite spotty access to a reliable broadband network, according to a study released on Wednesday.
The study, ''New Tech City,'' conducted by the Center for an Urban Future, concluded that the technology industry is growing faster in New York City than anywhere else in America and that the city now trails only Silicon Valley as a hub for the development of new technology companies. The study's authors, Jonathan Bowles and David Giles, identified 486 technology companies that had been founded in the city since 2007 and determined that the financial crisis and the recession that followed did not slow the industry's growth.
Mr. Bowles said the technology investors he interviewed agreed that in the last few years, New York had eclipsed the Boston area as the second-leading breeding ground for tech companies in the country. Silicon Valley, around San Jose, Calif., is still by far the dominant center of the industry, but New York was the only place where the number of deals to finance tech start-ups rose between 2007 and 2011, Mr. Bowles said. 
The number of venture capital deals in New York rose by 32 percent in that period, while it fell by more than 10 percent across the nation, the report said.
The report attributes some of the growth to the efforts of the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to reduce the city's dependence on Wall Street as an economic engine. The push to build up the industry has been much more successful than previous efforts to establish the city as a hub for biotechnology or environmental technology, which Mr. Bowles calls clean tech.
''It's important to understand that New York has not passed Boston in biotech or in clean tech,'' he said.
One reason that the development of digital technology seems to be taking root in the city is that the current wave of innovation is not about designing computers or chips or building infrastructure for the Internet, but about devising creative applications of mobile technology for various industries. New York's dominant positions in industries like finance and advertising have made it a natural place for those seeking to invent digital services in those fields.
One company the city has spawned is Tumblr, an online platform for sharing photos and other media. Founded in 2007 and based in the Flatiron district of Manhattan, Tumblr now has more than 100 employees.
Tumblr is one of 10 start-ups in the city that each have attracted more than $50 million from investors, according to the report. The others, mostly digital media and e-commerce companies, include Gilt Groupe, Foursquare and Fab.
Mr. Bowles said it was difficult to tally just how many people work in the city's tech areas, but he said it was clear that the number had been growing at a ''phenomenal clip.'' In the last five years, the number of information technology jobs in the city increased by almost 29 percent, or about eight times as fast as the city's total employment grew.
The study found that the tech start-ups were concentrated in about 10 ZIP codes in Lower Manhattan and Midtown, in part because attractive locations in Brooklyn and other boroughs lacked adequate broadband access. A significant problem is that many of these technology companies need a backup source of Internet access but usually cannot arrange affordable redundancy, Mr. Bowles said.
New York's broadband infrastructure deserved a grade of ''B or B-minus,'' he said. ''For a city that's trying to be a tech powerhouse, we need to have an A.''
He recounted a previous effort by the city to address the problem by creating a telecommunications task force and hiring consultants. But in the end, he said, ''it went nowhere; they really didn't do anything.''
The study was financed by AT&T and the Association for a Better New York, a group of business and labor leaders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Inside the office of Tumblr, a 2007 digital start-up in the Flatiron district of Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STARTUPS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (86%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BROADBAND (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



368 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1849 words

HEADLINE: Cheap and Colorful, an Overseas Home Beckons

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
THEY might have to contend with a monsoon season. Their electricity may go out on a regular basis. And they probably won't have the choices they once had at the grocery store. But some people are trading the conveniences of American living for retirement in another country.
And far from being ultrarich, many are people who, after doing the math, find that they can actually stretch their dollars farther if they move abroad.
Take Wendy Justice, a 58-year-old retired nurse from Knoxville, Tenn. She and her husband, David Justice, also a retired nurse, lived for a year in Nha Trang, a seaside resort in Vietnam, for less than $900 a month. That included $350 for a one-bedroom apartment two blocks from the beach, with 24-hour security and twice-a-week housekeeping.
To be sure, that's on the low end of the cost spectrum. But retirees are finding places to live in Latin America, Asia, and even parts of Europe for $1,000 to $3,000 a month, including rent, utilities, food, some entertainment, public transportation, and in some cases household help. 
Kathleen Peddicord, founder and publisher of Live and Invest Overseas, said she had seen a steady increase in the number of retirees moving abroad. Although exact numbers are hard to come by, nearly 550,000 people collected Social Security while living abroad in 2010, a 38 percent increase compared with a decade earlier. That gives a sense of the rising popularity of foreign retirement, though some expatriate retirees may not collect Social Security for various reasons.
''Twenty-five years ago, living abroad was kind of a crazy idea,'' said Ms. Peddicord, a 48-year-old American. ''This current generation is embracing the idea at a much greater rate.''
Today's retirees are much better-traveled than previous generations, she said, and thus more open to the notion. Also, the recession ate into their retirement portfolios, making a move abroad a practical way to conserve money. And technology has made it much easier to research destinations and conduct financial transactions.
Panama, where Ms. Peddicord lives with her family, is one of the most popular destinations, offering a combination of services, amenities, low cost and proximity to the United States. It also offers tax incentives to foreigners, and its use of the American dollar as the local currency makes a move more seamless.
Other affordable countries popular with retirees include Belize, Ecuador, Malaysia and France, Ms. Peddicord said. (Yes, certain areas of France, like the Bearn area in the southwest, can actually be affordable.)
But retiring abroad is not for everyone. Those accustomed to visiting family and friends regularly may not be good candidates. Still, many retirees manage to visit the United States at least a few times a year, and their new homes can be attractive vacation destinations for friends and relatives.
To retire abroad, Ms. Peddicord said, you need an open mind and a sense of humor. Otherwise, ''you'll be banging your head against a wall every day,'' she said. ''You're going to have to adjust your expectations.''
Loreta Randall, who retired to the Corozal district in northern Belize with her husband 10 years ago, can attest to that. Last month the pump they use to deliver their household water from a lagoon broke, and they had to use bucket water instead.
Services and products have improved in the time they have lived there, but grocery shopping still resembles a scavenger hunt, she said. When she lived in Bend, Ore., she said, she was a wine and cheese snob, but no more. Now if she can find a slab of some kind of Cheddar and a bottle of ordinary red, she's fine. In fact, she's overwhelmed by the choices in the stores when she visits the United States.
Be aware that hours of business in foreign countries may be limited, Ms. Peddicord said. Utilities may be unreliable. In many Latin American and Asian countries, you must stand in line to pay your electric bill in person (on the other hand, you might be able to afford to pay someone to stand in line for you). Workers might have a much more flexible notion of time than in the United States. In short, you must gracefully accept that people in other countries do things differently.
The idea of leaving the country can be intimidating, so many people retire in stages, Ms. Peddicord said. They might keep their homes and rent them out for half the year, while renting abroad for six months. If it doesn't work out, the worst that happens is they have taken an extended vacation.
As you consider places to retire, ask yourself what you can and can't tolerate, Ms. Peddicord said. Will it bother you if the electricity goes out, or if the access to your road washes out during the rainy seasons that are common in many parts of the world? What do you like to do on a weekend night or a Sunday afternoon? Do you hate humid weather? What about bugs?
And ''you have to answer them honestly -- you can't give the answer that makes you sound good,'' Ms. Peddicord said.
Also ask yourself how local you want to go, she said. The more you live like the local people -- speaking their language, buying food at their markets, living in their typical housing -- the cheaper your retirement can be, she said. By going this route, ''you can retire to another country on a budget of $700 a month,'' she said. It would be a very modest lifestyle, ''but it could also be the adventure of your lifetime,'' she added.
On the other hand, if you have more money to spend and don't want to immerse yourself as fully in the local lifestyle, more countries offer American-style retirement communities, with English the main language spoken, she said. (Boquete, Panama, which is surrounded by mountains and has a temperate climate, is one such place.)
It's often a good idea to rent first to make sure that you will be comfortable in your adopted home, Ms. Peddicord said. But once you are sure you have found the right city or town, there may be excellent deals on real estate -- just be prepared to contend with the complicated tax issues that come with buying property abroad.
Many affordable retirement spots are in Latin America, where reports of crime, especially in Mexico, can be alarming. Do not write off an entire country, or even a city, because of such reports, Ms. Peddicord said. State Department warnings cast very wide nets and may not reflect the reality, she said.
Once you have narrowed your options to a few places, visit them, and ''pay attention to your gut reaction to the place,'' she said. Many people have the feeling, '' 'I'm home,' even though nothing is familiar,'' she said.
That's what Ms. Randall and her husband, Bill Hunt, felt when they first visited Belize in the late 1990s. ''We did our research on the whole country, but Corozal had just what we wanted: friendly people, clean air, fresh fruits and veggies, affordable property and a few North Americans thrown in for good measure,'' she said in an e-mail.
The number of North Americans living in Belize has swelled, she said -- English is the official language -- and the word keeps spreading about how inexpensive it is (which, of course, has made it more costly than it was a decade ago).
Ms. Randall and her husband bought property on a freshwater lagoon a few miles from Mexico. They built a five-unit condo and live in one unit; they hope to rent out the others in the future.
The Justices have been more nomadic. Since retiring in 2005, they have lived in Thailand and Malaysia as well as Vietnam, while touring throughout Southeast Asia and in China (Ms. Justice is a freelance writer for Live and Invest Overseas, specializing in Asia). And so they have had to keep track of passport and visa requirements -- a good practice in general for retirees abroad.
Rules vary from country to country, but many expatriates need to obtain a visa and have it renewed periodically for a fee. Some countries offer a longer-term retiree visa, which requires some proof of income as a way of showing that you will not become a financial burden on the government.
Most people who stay in one place become permanent residents while keeping their American citizenship, Ms. Peddicord said. This enables them to keep their Medicare coverage; while it cannot be used abroad, they can return home to use it if a severe health problem emerges.
People with serious health problems should not, as a rule, consider an international move, said Gabrielle Redford, editorial projects manager of AARP The Magazine, which has published an expatriate retirees' starter kit.
But keep in mind that ''health care in many parts of the world is much less expensive and can be just as good,'' she said. Medical tourism, after all, is a big business. Private clinics can often provide excellent service, and they can be affordable even without insurance.
One downside of moving abroad is that financial transactions and taxes can be much more complicated. You do not want to run afoul of authorities in either the United States or your new place of residence.
Ann Reilley Gugle, a certified financial planner and certified public accountant at Alpha Financial Advisors in Charlotte, N.C., advises retirees to find a lawyer and C.P.A. in the new country who is familiar with the nuances of its tax code, tax treaties and local law. The lawyer should have a strong alliance with an American counterpart to help resolve legal and tax issues, she said. Documents like wills and trusts will need extra attention on both ends.
It is wise to have an account at an American bank and a local bank, she said. Many retiree destinations rely on cash, and you need to have local currency on hand. Especially in a country where the currency is volatile, you may want to buy a foreign currency contract that locks in your exchange rate, for your fixed local expenses, she said.
Watch out for unexpected fees. Obtain a credit card based in local currency or use a dollar-based credit card that does not impose fees, she advised. Otherwise you may be charged hefty transaction fees.
Long-distance phone charges can also be high if expatriates aren't careful. The cheapest way to communicate long-distance is via Skype or a similar Internet-based system, Ms. Peddicord said. To avoid high cellphone charges, buy a pay-as-you-go phone in the new country, she advised.
For people like the Justices, the financial complications of living abroad are worth it for the experiences they have had. Now back briefly in the United States, they are planning to return to Vietnam, perhaps to stay in Hanoi, where they have already lived for six months.
They have fond memories of Nha Trang, where ''it was cheaper (and more fun) to eat out than it was to cook for ourselves, even with the low, low price of fresh market food,'' Ms. Justice said in an e-mail. ''We spent our days relaxing at the beach, socializing with our friends in the cafes, taking leisurely drives through the pretty countryside and taking private lessons in Vietnamese'' -- at a cost of $5 for a two-hour session.
At this point, she said, ''Southeast Asia feels like our home and the U.S. feels like the foreign country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SLOWDOWN: Loreta Randall and her husband, Bill Hunt, walking their dogs on their property in Belize. Fresh fruits and vegetables surround Ms. Randall at the Gabriel Hoare Market in the center of Corozal Town. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEBRA WILKES GRAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 LOW EXPENSES: Wendy Justice at a restaurant in Nha Trang, Vietnam. The town's fish market, above, provides fresh, inexpensive options for residents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESORTS (71%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (57%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BELIZE (91%); VIET NAM (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



369 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Poverty's Poster Child

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
PINE RIDGE, S.D.
This sprawling Pine Ridge Indian Reservation is a Connecticut-sized zone of prairie and poverty, where the have-nots are defined less by the money they lack than by suffocating hopelessness.
In the national number line of inequality, people here represent the ''other 1 percent,'' the bottom of the national heap.
Pine Ridge is a poster child of American poverty and of the failures of the reservation system for American Indians in the West. The latest Census Bureau data show that Shannon County here had the lowest per capita income in the entire United States in 2010. Not far behind in that Census Bureau list of poorest counties are several found largely inside other Sioux reservations in South Dakota: Rosebud, Cheyenne River and Crow Creek. 
Poverty in the United States, including in the reservations, is so entrenched because it is often part of a toxic brew of alcohol or drug dependencies, dysfunctional families and educational failures. It self-replicates generation after generation.
''What's a man or woman to do?'' asked Ben, a young man here who said he started drinking at age 12. ''I felt helpless. I felt worthless, and I wanted a drink to get rid of my pain. But then you get more pain.''
Ben says he financed his alcohol and drug habits by turning to crime and violence. He's now on probation and didn't want his family name used for fear of getting in more trouble.
''I did a lot of things to get money to drink,'' he added regretfully. These included beating people up as a debt collector for beer stores just outside the reservation and driving girls to those stores where they exchanged sex for alcohol, he said.
Ben, now in his 30s, says that he quit alcohol several years ago. But he is overweight and in poor health, surviving on disability payments and seeing no chance of getting a job.
Unemployment on Pine Ridge is estimated at around 70 percent, and virtually the only jobs are those working for the government or for the Oglala Sioux tribe itself.
There are, of course, some reservations around the country that have struck it rich with gambling or other ventures. But here in the prairies, those riches are only rumors.
Half the population over 40 on Pine Ridge has diabetes, and tuberculosis runs at eight times the national rate. As many as two-thirds of adults may be alcoholics, one-quarter of children are born with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders, and the life expectancy is somewhere around the high 40s -- shorter than the average for sub-Saharan Africa. Less than 10 percent of children graduate from high school.
One reason businesses don't invest in reservations is that even though unemployment is so high, companies find it difficult to recruit dependable workers, according to Robert Brave Heart, who runs the Red Cloud Indian School.
''People here still have to develop good work habits, even getting to work on time,'' Brave Heart said. ''And people here have constant family crises that cause them to miss work.''
Brave Heart, the son of a medicine man, is a success story and is turning out more of them at his school. These young people are going off to college to acquire skills that may help them turn the reservation around in the future.
How might present and future leaders lift up Indian reservations such as Pine Ridge out of poverty? A starting point is to understand what holds them back.
One factor is the alcohol and drug abuse and broken families. That's why I blasted Anheuser-Busch in my last column for helping siphon alcohol into the reservation against tribal rules.
A second is that reservations are often structured in ways that discourage private investment. Tribal lands often aren't deeded to individuals but are common property, and tribal law means that outside investors can't rely on uniform commercial codes and may have no reliable recourse if they are cheated.
Third, the arid lands here just can't support many people. Rural areas throughout the great plains states, including those with overwhelmingly white populations, are losing inhabitants and are also among the poorest in the country.
Even though the reservation system is largely failing in the West, there are bright spots. One is the growing number of American Indians getting a good education. Another is that initiatives to emphasize traditional Sioux culture and spirituality seem to have boosted community pride and helped wean some families from alcohol and drugs.
My hunch is that these Indian reservations will have to shed people: They can't generate enough jobs, and a community with perpetual joblessness will always be stunted. But many American Indian communities throughout the United States have already demonstrated enormous resilience over the last two centuries -- and that's a basis for hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); FAMILY (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CENSUS (76%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (73%); BEER & ALE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); FETAL ALCOHOL SYNDROME (66%); VIOLENT CRIME (64%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (63%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (60%); DIABETES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



370 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Making Sure Money's Still There When It's Needed

BYLINE: By JOHN F. WASIK. 
John F. Wasik, co-author of ''iMoney,'' is a Reuters columnist.

 BODY:
IN years past, retirement was guided by simple arithmetic. You knew exactly how much Social Security, savings and your defined-benefit pension would pay you, then cut back any unaffordable expenses when you hit 65.
Now that Social Security and Medicare are being eyed for cutbacks and 401(k)'s produce ever-varying lump sums, the retirement planning process requires a more sophisticated strategy.
Hobbled by two recessions and major market downturns in the last dozen years, future retirees are frustrated about their ability to plan ahead. They may not have enough money to maintain a comfortable lifestyle and need to make adjustments. 
This new retirement reality is reflected in the fact that only 14 percent of Americans polled in the 2012 Retirement Confidence Survey conducted by the Employee Benefit Research Institute said they were ''very confident they will have enough money to live comfortably in retirement.''
Because of this widespread pessimism, more than half those surveyed said they had not even tried to calculate how much money they will need in retirement. With the stock market and economy rebounding this year, perhaps that will change.
There are plenty of routes to address retirement planning needs, ranging from simple online calculators to employer-provided preretirement services. Financial advisers, including certified financial planners and chartered financial analysts, also offer their services to create customized comprehensive plans and portfolio management. Whatever avenue you choose, it's going to get complicated.
Stephen J. Lansing, chief investment officer for Financial Soundings in Alpharetta, Ga., has found that ''the vast majority of people don't take the time or make the effort to plan for retirement and many who try do a poor job of it.'' His company provides retirement planning services to employers.
The complexity can be daunting. How much money will you need, given your investments, rates of return, life expectancy and amount of risk you're taking in your 401(k) portfolio? Mr. Lansing's company and others will provide a range of probabilities of employees meeting their goals, then give advice on what they need to do. Many financial advisers, mutual fund companies, brokerage houses and planners also provide this service.
For many people, Mr. Lansing said, the preretirement profile shows a ''funding gap,'' indicating that changes in behavior are needed to meet objectives. This Rosetta stone of planning is essential because it may necessitate increased contributions to retirement plans, a larger allocation to stocks or greater outside saving.
''The biggest problem is people don't save enough,'' Mr. Lansing added. ''Sometimes they have to save two to three times more than they are currently setting aside.''
At the very least, preretirement planning or a ''readiness profile,'' will tell you if you're on track to retire when you want to. It will also tell you if you have to bolster your nest egg, adjust your portfolio or scale back your retirement objectives.
Most boilerplate retirement models assume you'll need to replace 80 percent of your preretirement income. Yet you may need less than that if you downsize your home, move to a state with no income tax (Florida, Nevada, New Hampshire, Texas or Wyoming) or broadly cut your living expenses.
Here's what a basic retirement analysis might tell you: Based on your salary before retirement of $125,911, you'll need $100,729 in your first year of retirement to replace 80 percent of your income. If combined savings, pension income and Social Security can't match this number, you'll need to address the shortfall.
Your retirement comfort number, of course, will change depending on what happens to Medicare and Social Security. Several proposals have been floated in the last year, ranging from Medicare ''premium support'' plans that will give you money to buy privately issued insurance policies to means-tested benefit reductions for higher-income retirees. In nearly every benefit-cut assumption, though, you'll most likely dig deeper into your pocket.
Just what will happen with any of these proposals will depend largely on what happens in the November elections, which will shape the direction Congress will take.
In many cases, simple math can provide answers on how to fill the gap. You can tell your employer to raise your pretax contribution to your retirement plan. You can also invest on your own by creating a portfolio of low-cost index funds. Retirement vehicles abound: Roth individual retirement accounts for tax-free withdrawals; conventional I.R.A.'s, and mini defined-benefit pension plans you can set up if you're self-employed. You can also set up taxable portfolios in brokerage accounts that buy dividend-paying stocks.
Aside from crunching the numbers to define a comfortable retirement, ''softer'' questions -- often neglected in planning -- require contemplation. The International Foundation for Retirement Education (infre.org), found in a retirement readiness survey that only ''one-third say they have some plans but are mostly just looking forward to having more time for leisure activities.''
''What is the money for?'' Robert Stammers, director of investor education for the CFA Institute, said investors should ask themselves. ''What does retirement mean? Clients need to tell their advisers what they want to do when retired, although that's difficult for most people.''
For some people, full retirement may not be an option -- or even desirable. You may want to work longer or part time. You may even consider a phased retirement where you gradually reduce your working hours. Or you may have a need for social engagement and find being a full-time volunteer desirable.
It may be helpful to talk not only with your partner or spouse and a trusted adviser but also to do a more comprehensive breakdown of social, personal and wealth goals in retirement. Still, much will depend on how healthy you are and how you plan to occupy your time. The latter can be planned better than the former. Thoughtful preretirement planning may even lead you into another career or several new pursuits.
If life expectancy continues its upward curve, you'll have your work cut out for you, because you may need to think about what you want to do in your 10th and 11th decades. If you're fortunate, you'll have plenty of time to think about it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); MEDICARE (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



371 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Slips, But Predicts A Doubling Of Profits

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Toyota Motor reported another step in its uneven road to recovery Wednesday, saying that income for the fiscal year that ended in March had tumbled, but that it expected profit for the current year to more than double to <5>760 billion, helped by new models and a pickup in the global economy.
Toyota, the world's second-largest automaker by vehicle sales after General Motors, has been languishing far below the heights it hit in 2008, when it raked in a record <5>1.72 trillion, or $21.5 billion. 
But after posting a historic loss shortly thereafter in the global economic crisis, Toyota has struggled to grow, for reasons both of its own creation and beyond its control. First, a recall crisis greatly hampered a rebound, even as the economy pulled back from the brink; then an upswing in the yen weighed on Toyota's profits.
Last year, Japan's natural and nuclear disasters, as well as flooding in Thailand, wreaked havoc on production lines and again marred hopes of a robust recovery. Analysts say it may be difficult for Toyota to fully recover without shifting more production out of Japan, where the strong yen has made manufacturing much more expensive.
The Toyoda City-based auto maker said Wednesday that net income for the
12 months through March had fallen 31 percent from a year earlier to <5>283.6 billion, largely because of the impact of those disasters and the strong Japanese currency.
That decline overshadows a heroic comeback in the January-March quarter, when profit more than quadrupled to <5>121 billion compared with that of a year earlier. Toyota has raced to mend supply lines severed by the tsunami and ramp up production, beating its own estimates in bringing factories back online.
The maker of the Corolla compact and the Prius gas-electric hybrid said an aggressive new model lineup, as well as strength in major markets like the United States and Japan, would help it further boost profit to <5>760 billion in the year through March 2013. It also said it expected sales in emerging markets to grow at a healthy clip.
Those projections would amount to Toyota's best annual performance yet since the 2009 plunge, though the forecast still fell short of a <5>817.7 billion average predicted by 21 analysts polled by Bloomberg. Toyota said it expected to sell 8.7 million vehicles, an increase of 1.35 million from a year earlier, and for revenue to climb 18 percent to <5>22 trillion.
Toyota also announced a year-end dividend of <5>30 per share, to be proposed at the general shareholders meeting in June.
''In recent years, we have suffered periods of hardship. This year, I am determined to show tangible results of all our internal efforts in order to reward our stakeholders who supported us during these difficult times,'' Akio Toyoda, chief executive at Toyota and the grandson of the company founder, said in prepared remarks.
Shares in Toyota closed flat at <5>3,145 in Tokyo before the announcement. The auto maker's shares have gained 22.6 percent this year, outperforming a 6.9 percent rise in the wider Nikkei index.
Among new models from Toyota this year are the new Prius C hybrid subcompact, released in Japan in December and in North America in March, and a new fully electric vehicle, the RAV4, which the Japanese automaker developed with the Silicon Valley startup, Tesla Motors.
China's securities regulator is considering allowing foreign companies to directly issue bonds that will trade on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, two sources, including one with direct knowledge of the situation, told Reuters on Wednesday.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Shanghai Stock Exchange have been studying the plan since late last year, the source said, adding that there was no timetable for a final decision on the proposal.
A second source at a brokerage said she had been briefed by on the project this week. None of the sources was authorized to speak on the record
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Akio Toyoda, the chief executive of Toyota, expressed confidence about the future of his company on Wednesday in Tokyo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU YAMANAKA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); HYBRID VEHICLES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



372 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Concern Over Europe Pulls Shares Down Again

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks fell for the fifth day in six on Wednesday as investors kept their focus on the turmoil in Europe, but news that Greece will receive its latest debt bailout payment helped cut losses late in the session. 
In the afternoon, the Nasdaq briefly turned positive and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose to break-even after news that Greece would get 5.2 billion euros ($6.7 billion) in emergency aid.
The turmoil in Europe has driven Wall Street's slide, and more investors were hedging against potential further losses. The Dow fell for a sixth straight day and the S.& P. touched a two-month low before cutting losses.
''It's a very difficult market to trade in. I'm advising my clients to just hedge out all the way into July because we are going to see some heightened volatility like today for awhile,'' said Randy Frederick, managing director of active trading and derivatives at Charles Schwab in Austin, Tex.
The CBOE Volatility Index, Wall Street's ''fear gauge,'' rose 5.4 percent to 20.08.
The yield on the 10-year Spanish bond climbed above 6 percent, seen as a troublesome level among investors, after Spain said it would demand that banks set aside another 35 billion euros ($45 billion) against loans to the ailing building sector. Huge bank losses have raised fears that the country may need an international bailout.
Interest rates were slightly lower in the United States. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 101 18/32, and the yield fell to 1.83 percent from 1.84 percent late Tuesday.
The Dow Jones industrial average finished down 97.03 points, or 0.75 percent, at 12,835.06. The S.& P. index was down 9.14 points, or 0.67 percent, at 1,354.58. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 11.56 points, or 0.39 percent, at 2,934.71.
The S.& P. financial sector index was hurt by the news about Spanish banks and closed down 1.1 percent.
Walt Disney reported quarterly earnings that beat expectations late on Tuesday on strong theme-park attendance and cable advertising revenue. Shares of Disney, a Dow component, rose 1.6 percent to $45.02, after earlier hitting a lifetime high at $45.80. The success of its superhero movie ''The Avengers'' also helped Disney's stock.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 10-Year Treasury Notes: High yield in monthly refunding auction. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); DEBT NOTES (77%); EURO (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (70%) EUROPE (93%); GREECE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



373 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: A Model City Loses a Crime Fighter

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN; Khaled Abu Aker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
JENIN, West Bank -- Relaxing in their rooftop salon one recent night, Amal Qadoura headed to fetch ice cream for herself and her husband when the shooting began. First, she recalled, two bullets were fired at one side of the glass-enclosed porch, followed by a barrage from a hilltop on the other side.
Her husband, Qadoura Moussa, 60, the governor of this region in the northern part of the Palestinian territories, popped a blood-pressure tablet, then grabbed his rifle and headed into the night. He roamed the city for an hour or more before collapsing at a clinic. He suffered two heart attacks and was dead before dawn.
''This person is a coward,'' Mrs. Moussa said of whoever fired the shots, between condolence calls Monday afternoon. ''But those who sent him were trying to convey a message.'' 
In the week since his death, Mr. Moussa has been embraced here as a martyr to the Palestinian national struggle, his visage plastered on car windshields and building facades, behind candy kiosks and in front of protest tents. The Palestinian Authority and others close to the governor say he died battling gangs that threatened to bring chaos back to the streets of Jenin, a notorious hub of violent crime during the second intifada reborn in recent years as a model of Palestinian self-rule, cooperation with Israel and economic growth.
''It is a significant setback for the dovish wing of the Palestinian national movement as well as the American and the quartet's attempt to keep hope afloat in these times when the 'peace process' is in tatters,'' Prof. Mark Rosenblum, a left-leaning Queens College historian of the Middle East, said by e-mail, referring to the four Middle East peacemakers: the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations. Professor Rosenblum described the ''Jenin model'' as an important ''symbol of a secure and successful de-occupation.''
Brig. Gen. Radi Assidi, commander of the security forces in the region, said people throughout the West Bank ''realize that law and order started in Jenin, so any lawlessness that starts in Jenin could spread throughout the West Bank.''
Scores of Palestinians have been detained for questioning in connection with the shooting at Mr. Moussa's home, officials said, including a number of security officers. While Jenin's downtown vegetable market bustled with life as usual Monday afternoon, as night fell convoys of heavily armed officers rolled onto the streets and out to a village connected to the leading suspects.
''You can feel the tension and instability,'' said Louy Arkawi, owner of Ombashi, a restaurant on one of Jenin's main thoroughfares. ''As a businessman, I want law and order. If there is chaos, my priority will be not to invest more in the city, but to buy weapons to defend myself.''
General Assidi traced the resurging lawlessness back about a year, to the murder of the legendary director of the Freedom Theater, an oasis for decades of so-called cultural resistance. The violence picked up over the past seven or eight months, he said, and escalated in an April confrontation in the nearby village of Bir al Basha between police officers and a man wanted for killing his cousin. The wanted man's brother fired on the police and ended up dead, General Assidi said, and many here believe that the attack on the governor's home was retaliation.
''Unfortunately, our leadership in Ramallah heard the bell ringing late,'' General Assidi said in an interview at his headquarters here, not yet entirely rebuilt after having been destroyed during the intifada. ''We informed them that some members of the security establishment have no loyalty, but nobody paid attention to our request.''
On Monday, General Assidi said, nine of his counterparts from across the West Bank met here with the authority's top security official, part of a crackdown in which the leadership has vowed to question, arrest and try anyone connected with the attack on Mr. Moussa's house, the Bir al Basha affair and other recent flare-ups. A new governor, Talal Dwaikat, arrived Sunday, walking the streets for an hour to proclaim his commitment to safety.
''Jenin will not be a place for the gangs,'' Mr. Dwaikat told a delegation of Israeli Arab women who came from Nazareth on Monday to express condolences and meet him. ''Jenin will be a place of security so we can receive you warmly.''
In an interview afterward, Mr. Dwaikat said he would prosecute every criminal in the region. ''There will be no exception,'' he said. ''Whatever his status in the community or history, law and order is above all of us.
''I want to continue the march of Qadoura Moussa.''
Appointed in 2004 by Yasir Arafat, Mr. Moussa was seen as a man of the street, a humble leader who had served time in Israeli prisons alongside many of his countrymen. Ibrahim Hamadeh, 44, an activist in the governing Fatah Party, recalled that when he was a boy, in a poor family, Mr. Moussa gave him free pens and notebooks from a bookshop he owned.
''He was not a governor; he was a father,'' said Mr. Hamadeh, a cook at Mr. Arkawi's restaurant. ''A field-command officer, among the people.''
Mr. Moussa was born in the stone house where he lived at the time of his death. It was built in 1948 atop a steep hill in Marah, a neighborhood of Jenin, and he married on its first floor 31 years ago. He had three sons and a daughter, who gave him three grandsons.
He had bypass surgery 12 years ago. Over the years, he built the house into three stories, and after his death it was packed with mourners.
Mr. Moussa's favorite spot was the roof: two huge rooms enclosed in glass with 360-degree views that on a clear day stretch to Nazareth and Haifa. He would lounge on the red and black couches, by the window in summer, by the heater in winter, one of his sons said, showing guests his father's radio, brought from Haifa in 1948; his grandfather's pocket watch; and a collection of ancient metal teakettles.
Now, the stone of the house and the windows of the porch are pocked with bullet holes.
''I asked him to rest and then tried to help him relax,'' Mrs. Moussa recalled of the night of the shooting, May 1. ''He walked to his car, opened his car, started the stereo and then went around the city,'' she continued, now recounting the story told by her brothers, who accompanied him. ''He went to the top hill of Jenin, looked down. He stood there and told them, 'Look at the city, its shining lights on, and it should remain.' He was singing along with the radio.''
She waited up. But the call came not from her husband. It was his driver, who took her to the hospital to say goodbye.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHATTERED PEACE: A relative mourning Qadoura Moussa, a governor in Jenin who died of heart attacks while investigating gunfire directed at his home.
MARTYR STATUS: Posters in Jenin paid tribute to Mr. Moussa. Photos: nytimes.com/world. (A6)
 TIGHTENING SECURITY: Security forces guarding the entrance to Bir al Basha, a village near Jenin, as part of a crackdown after Qadoura Moussa's death. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); HEART DISEASE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); HISTORY (63%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



374 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking Violets They Aren't

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
THE difference between a vacant lot and a community garden comes down to a single thing: a sunflower.
Helianthus annuus is not just a plant but a kind of logo, said Deborah Greig, 30, an urban agriculture coordinator at East New York Farms in Brooklyn. She seems to have a knack for brand management. Once you're shoveling manure, advertising is a logical next step.
''They're a really iconic way to make people notice that you're trying to make a change in the community,'' Ms. Greig said. ''There's not a lot of green space in East New York.''
The half-acre plot she helps manage, the United Community Centers Youth Farm, lies almost in the shadow of the second-to-last-stop on the No. 3 train. The main mission here is to help the neighborhood grow its own nourishing food. But a perimeter of brilliant sunflowers, towering over the cyclone fence, seems to function like commercial signage, she said. 
The sturdy sunflower does not shrink from a little ''hard labor, too,'' Ms. Greig added. ''I think they do some catching of the trash that blows in.''
At the South Bronx community garden La Finca del Sur, she said, growers are experimenting with sunflowers in a soil-treatment practice called phytoremediation. In field tests last summer, the plant's deep taproots seemed to pull heavy metal contaminants like mercury and lead from the garden's polluted soil.
When the sunflower isn't doing dirty work, it dresses up nicely. This year, Ms. Greig and her friend Molly Culver, 31, will include sunflowers in designs for a half-dozen weddings as part of a side business called Molly Oliver Flowers. Many of these blooms will come from the Youth Farm at the High School for Public Service in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, where Ms. Culver is a manager.
''We're planting around 150, or more, every other week through the end of June,'' Ms. Culver said. (The farm supplies an on-site market and a cut-flower Community Supported Agriculture operation.) All told, Ms. Culver will be raising more than 1,000 sunflowers in the concrete heart of Brooklyn.
As it turns out, this is a perfectly natural place for a sunflower to be. When Ms. Greig and Ms. Culver -- and I -- stocked up on sunflower seeds this winter, we were joining a gardening tradition that goes back some 5,000 years. Helianthus annuus is the quintessential American flower. And its path to the garden each year is a kind of tall, shaggy tale, rather like the sunflower stalk itself.
Sunflowers are likely the second-oldest domesticated seed crop in eastern North America. (Squash came first.) Archaeological digs in the river valleys of Appalachia (sites with names like Cloudsplitter and Napoleon Hollow) have identified the burned hulls of cultivated sunflower seeds from 4860 B.P. (or before present). Other sites in Mexico may be older still.
New York's pre-colonial dwellers, the Lenape, likely planted sunflowers at the edges of the maize fields alongside their camps. In Brooklyn, the Lenape might have sowed sunflowers near Gravesend and the Gowanus Creek. Other fields lay in Harlem, north of a settlement called Konaande Kongh. In the Bronx, the Lenape planted near Hunts Point and Clason Point.
From the accounts and detailed drawings of European explorers along the Eastern Seaboard, these sunflowers were of the common cultivated variety, macrocarpus. The plants reached seven or eight feet tall and formed a single large head. (Wild sunflowers grow with a branched habit and form numerous smaller heads.)
Writing in 1951, the eminent American sunflower taxonomist Charles B. Heiser Jr. concluded that oil from the crushed seeds ''was used chiefly to anoint the hair.'' This practice could still be observed in the Iroquoian tribes of Ontario in the 1940s.
On other occasions, the seeds ''were roasted over a fire, then pounded and cooked with roasted white corn, sweetened with maple sugar and used in somewhat the same way we use lard.''
If this ur-comfort food doesn't turn up soon at the Brooklyn Flea, I'm canning it in a Leifheit jar and selling it myself.
THE sunflower packets in the seed rack at the hardware store did not come directly from America's pre-colonial stock. In the 16th century, the plant began a grand tour of Europe: the Flemish botanist Rembert Dodoens recorded an accurate drawing as early as 1568. In the centuries of European breeding that followed, the sunflower probably learned how to curtsy before royalty and wear a powdered wig and dance a gavotte.
It is mostly the repatriated sunflower that we grow today. (Dr. Heiser reports that the plant made its homecoming debut in C. W. Dorr's seed catalog in 1880.) The search for the modern sunflower might lead you to Tom Heaton's breeding nursery in Woodland, Calif., on the outskirts of Sacramento. Some of the most popular ornamental cultivars came into existence here, and in 100 acres of seed-production fields spread across the valley.
The sunflowers go by names like the Joker (which has a motley ruffle like a fool's collar), Moulin Rouge (burgundy), Moonshadow (pale) and Kong (which Dr. Heaton has grown to 19 feet). And there's the ProCut line, which might be the hardest working sunflower in the floral trade.
A recent weekday morning found Dr. Heaton, 61, puttering around his seedlings. ''We typically plant 4,000 or 5,000 different kinds of sunflowers that we breed with different heights, different petal types, different colors and other characteristics,'' he said.
Take the maroon sunflower that Dr. Heaton and his company, NuFlowers, recently brought to market under the name ProCut Red. ''You're looking for that specific trait,'' Dr. Heaton said -- in this case, an unusual hue that might sneak into a bouquet on Valentine's Day or Christmas. But ''you're also looking for how that specific trait combines with the acceptable traits you already had in one of your parents,'' he said.
ProCut Red needed to be a single-stemmed sunflower (one trait) of middling height (a second trait), with a ray of deep red petals (still another trait), framing a pollenless brown disc (two traits) that will mature in 50 days. You get the idea.
And remember, in the seed-production phase, these flowers need to be isolated from stray pollen, lest a meddlesome bee scramble the genes. This is why Dr. Heaton's breeding sunflowers all seem to be wearing a fast-food hairnet.
''It's a numbers game,'' Dr. Heaton said, like roulette or the lottery.
So just how many test flowers did he grow out to create ProCut Red?
''Oh, it was 5,000,'' he said. ''I started the red in the 1980s, making the cross. It's taken 20 years to get it to this stage.''
He paused for a moment, as if picturing all those sunflowers standing blithely in a field. ''Maybe I'm just stupid, and it took me a long time.''
ANY 4-year-old can get a sunflower to grow. Little hands do well with big seeds. But I'm not 4 and I've failed at the task plenty of times.
So a few weeks ago, I dropped by Red Barn Farm in the St. Croix River Valley of Wisconsin, where Debbie and Jim Barron grow 5,000 sunflowers a year. Or you could say that Debbie grows 5,000 sunflowers a year and Jim grows 120 varieties of tomatoes.
''He was always against the flowers,'' said Ms. Barron, 53.
''I thought when the economy went bad, people would want to eat, not buy flowers,'' replied Mr. Barron, 58.
Their minibus farm (it's sort of like a truck farm) was to serve as a contingency against unemployment. But these days, overemployment is a bigger problem: they're both working full time and growing produce and flowers on the weekend. The plan for a recent Saturday morning was to get 3,000 onion starts into the ground. Maybe a few sunflowers, too.
But Ms. Barron had failed to clear that schedule with the rain gods. So our sunflower practicum turned into more of a lecture.
''The closer you put them, the smaller the heads are going to be,'' she said. She likes to crease the ground with a straightedge, dropping seeds every four inches. ''If you plant them six inches apart, the heads will be, like, a foot across. And that's too big.''
An inch or two of dirt on top will stymie the dumbest birds, at least.
It would be charitable to water and weed the plants. But the Barrons' rented fields lack irrigation. And ''once you start watering, it's almost like they expect to be watered,'' Mr. Barron said.
''They don't get much attention,'' Ms. Barron added.
Ultimately, only 3,000 of the sunflowers will make it into bouquets. Some will start to open on a Monday. By Friday's harvest, they're drooping like Sam Elliott's mustache. The branching varieties may not flower before a hard September frost.
''Damn flowers,'' Mr. Barron said.
Many of their flowers are pollenless by design. But leave the mammoth, open-pollinated varieties in the yard to set seed and you've got a 12-foot-tall bird feeder. Alternately, tie a paper bag on, like a muzzle, to catch the crop.
These are the familiar seeds with the bootlegger's gray-and-white pinstripe down the sides. The marking, it seems, is purely ornamental.
As Dr. Heaton said: ''A black sunflower seed hides a lot of blemishes in handling. I think it's just product presentation: it's what the customer likes.''
Native people would have found a different shell when they harvested wild seeds to roast, grind into flour and then prepare as ''cakes or mush,'' Dr. Heiser writes.
Ultimately, he admits to being baffled by the sunflower's most enduring mystery. The ''hulls of the wild sunflower are very fibrous and probably not very palatable,'' he muses. ''Although their removal would be a difficult and tedious task.''
It's not hard to imagine the first American gardener, standing at the edge of a meadow while pondering a palmful of sunflower seeds: What could go wrong if I swallowed the shell?
Angles for Catching the Rays
IF you spend a few hours in Debbie and Jim Barron's market garden, out past the shuttered greyhound track in Hudson, Wis., you're sure to meet Mittens, the old farm cat. Should you happen to be a mouse, now is the time to run. Otherwise, as she lolls around your shoes, you might notice something unusual about Mittens's mitts.
''She's a Hemingway cat,'' Mr. Barron said. By this, he means that she's a polydactyl. Mittens consented, squirmingly, to an exam, as he counted seven toes on each of her front paws instead of the usual five.
As it happens, the breeding of the sunflower can appear every bit as quirky. Take Ms. Barron's favorite, Double Quick Orange: a ''teddy-bear''-type sunflower with a fuzzy profusion of golden petals. You could easily mistake it for a dahlia. Weirder still, the pollenless flower won't set seed.
''Call it sterile and people think it sounds creepy,'' Mr. Barron said. (A packet of 50 seeds is $3.45 at Johnny's Selected Seeds; johnnyseeds.com.)
Alternately, Ms. Barron said, you could grow Autumn Beauty, a widely available sunflower that can produce up to two dozen blooms on a single plant. Or how about Kong, a hydra of a sunflower that produces a feast of seeds and reaches heights beyond 12 feet, without being staked?
''I would recommend that one for kids' sunflower tepees,'' she said. (Territorial Seed Company sells about 25 seeds for $2.50; territorialseed.com.)
You'd probably need air rights to grow Kong in Manhattan. Molly Culver, an urban farmer, generally chooses more-manageable varieties for the youth farm in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
''We grow the ProCut Orange,'' she said. The single flower has ''beautiful, deep, golden-colored petals and then a mahogany disc.''
Although ''most sunflowers will prefer to be direct-sown,'' Ms. Culver said, she tries to maximize her harvest by starting the seeds in deep plastic cells. (A square foot of vacant dirt in Brooklyn lists for about $180,000: garden space is simply too valuable to leave empty.) After a few weeks, she evicts the starts to a crowded sublet in the soil. She'll typically plant them about hip-deep to develop a stalwart base underground.
Most of these cultivars, it turns out, are the work of Tom Heaton, who has bred sunflowers for 36 years. Almost all the plants he markets at sunflowerselections.com are sterile, hybrids or both. That said, saving the seeds of an old-fashioned sunflower couldn't be easier.
Dr. Heaton admires Taiyo, an open-pollinated Japanese creation that was an ''industry standard for a long time, in the 1980s and '90s,'' he said. The discs are enormous and the petals short, like the pupils and lashes of the anime warrior/darling Sailor Moon.
''I don't know if anyone sells it anymore,'' Dr. Heaton said. To the rescue, as ever, comes Seed Savers Exchange (seedsavers.org), with 100 seeds for just $2.75.
If you don't have a city lot of your own to fill with sunflowers, Ms. Culver proposes dwarf sunflowers that might fit in a deep pot on a fire escape. She likes Little Becka for its ''tawny-colored or copper-colored sunflower'' ($3.95 for 50 seeds at Johnny's).
And ''the teddy bears are just adorable,'' Ms. Culver said. The pompon blooms ''are scruffy yellow with a green center.'' (Seed Savers offers open-pollinated dwarf teddy bears at $2.75 for 100 seeds.)
But then who ever heard of an 18-inch-tall sunflower? Nature, you say, must have a droll sense of humor.
Tell it to Mittens and her 22 toes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE PRIZE: Deborah Greig, above left, and Glenn Marcuss pulling a sunflower plant at East New York Farms in Brooklyn. At left, a sunflower thriving in Crown Heights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
EYE CATCHING: Clockwise from top, the American Giant Hybrid towering over Olga Chengaeva, Tom Heaton's wife, in Northern California
the Little Becka
Velvet Queen and Buttercream sunflowers along with purple Scabiosa, Euphorbia and Snapdragons
Molly Culver with Pro Cut Orange sunflowers
 and a thriving crop.(D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (86%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (77%); BRANDING (72%); BIOREMEDIATION (70%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (70%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



375 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Memo to Would-Be Members of the 1%: Move to the Northeast or Mid-Atlantic

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Reaching for the American dream? Your best chances are probably in New York, New Jersey or Maryland.
Those states are best at helping Americans move up the income ladder, both in absolute terms and relative to their peers, according to a groundbreaking new study from the Economic Mobility Project at the Pew Center on the States.
Generally speaking, states in New England and the mid-Atlantic had the most upwardly mobile residents, whereas states in the South had the least mobile populations. 
The study, which appears to be the first to try to measure economic mobility at the state level, looked at the incomes of Americans in each state over a 10-year period using data from the Census Bureau and the Social Security Administration. Researchers tracked a group of nationally representative Americans who were age 35 to 39 at any point from 1978 to 1997.
They then examined how each individual's earnings had changed exactly one decade after the initial income number was collected.
Across the country, the income of the typical American rose by about 17 percent in inflation-adjusted terms during that time. There was great variation among the states, though.
In a handful of states, including New York, Utah and Massachusetts, residents' incomes rose at least 20 percent over the course of a decade. On the other hand, in Alabama and South Carolina, average incomes rose only 12 percent after adjusting for inflation.
The study, by Erin Currier and Diana Elliott, also considered whether people were able to move up the income ladder relative to their peers -- that is, how common is the modern-day Horatio Alger hero, the upstart who displaces people who are more privileged?
To measure this ''relative upward mobility,'' the authors focused on people in the bottom half of the income distribution and tracked whether those individuals were able to move up at least 10 percentiles.
For example, a person who started out in the 20th percentile would have to climb to at least the 30th percentile after a decade in order to be considered ''upwardly mobile'' in this study.
Across the country, about a third of Americans who started in the bottom half in income were able to move up that much.
At the more upwardly mobile end, in Connecticut, 40 percent of the state's residents who started in the bottom half moved up at least 10 percentiles over the course of a decade.
At the other extreme, in North and South Carolina only about a quarter -- 26 percent -- of people who started at the bottom were able to lift themselves up that much.
The report had similar measures looking at downward mobility -- that is, whether people in the top half of the income distribution dropped by at least 10 percentiles over the course of a decade.
Using all three metrics together -- absolute income gains, relative upward mobility and relative downward mobility -- the researchers determined that New York, New Jersey and Maryland performed best in the country. They were, in fact, the only three states that outperformed the country as a whole on all three measures.
Louisiana, Oklahoma and South Carolina were the only states that performed worse than the rest of the country on all three measures.
The states with more upwardly mobile populations were more likely to be liberal-leaning states, and those with more stagnant populations were more likely to be conservative-leaning states. But it is not clear if that correlation is causal; the report does not explain how public policy or other factors may have affected people's chances of evolving from rags to riches.
''It was beyond the scope of the study to look at why states performed the way they did,'' Ms. Currier said. ''What I can say is that our previous research has found some particular drivers of economic mobility at the individual level, including education, savings and assets, and neighborhood poverty during childhood.''
The researchers found at least one other factor that correlated with higher income mobility: the willingness to move to another state. People who moved to another state were more likely to get a big income increase, presumably because higher-income opportunities were part of the reason for migrating in the first place.
The report did not find that high turnover -- having a lot of people move in, or a lot of people move out -- affected how states performed.
''We thought there might be some sort of a brain drain effect, that maybe the best and the brightest move out,'' Ms. Currier said. ''Our sample -- and other data -- showed that in general people are unlikely to move out of birth state. As a result, the aggregate level of moving out or moving in or staying put didn't actually affect any state as whole.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); CENSUS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



376 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2526 words

HEADLINE: Working Late, by Choice or Not

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
REPORT after report has made abundantly clear that job growth is weak, but there's one wide swath of the population where employment growth is going gangbusters: older Americans.
A record 7.2 million Americans age 65 and older are working -- double the number 15 years ago -- partly because many older Americans love to work and partly because many feel too financially squeezed to retire.
With the value of many 401(k)'s and homes taking a beating during the recession and with energy and health care prices climbing, many who dreamed that retirement was just around the corner have reluctantly kicked their retirement plans down the road.
While the overall number of Americans working has fallen by 4.4 million since the Great Recession began four and a half years ago -- with many dropping out of the work force in frustration and some retiring early -- the number of Americans 65 and older who are working has jumped by 1.4 million, a whopping 25 percent increase. Some work as doctors, some in retail, and some, with an entrepreneurial bent, start businesses in their 60s. 
Americans are remaining healthier longer and living longer, making it easier to work past age 65. Moreover, it has grown easier for older Americans to continue working as the economy has shifted from physically taxing manufacturing jobs to less grueling service sector jobs.
In a survey done last year, the Society of Actuaries found that 55 percent of older Americans who continued working said they had done so to stay active and involved, while 51 percent said they had done so for additional income.
''One obvious reason people are working later is money,'' said Steven A. Sass, program director at the Boston College Center for Retirement Research. ''There's a concern about what they have in their 401(k) and about Social Security.''
He said baby boomers were getting less than their parents did from Social Security because of the increase in the full retirement age -- people cannot obtain full Social Security benefits until age 66, and for those born after 1957, the age will be 67. ''Not only are they getting less from Social Security,'' Mr. Sass said, ''but many don't have a pension that gives them a steady income after they retire.''
These factors help explain why 18.5 percent of Americans 65 and older remain in the labor force, up from 12.1 percent in 1995. Many have stayed in the work force past 60 because older Americans seem to be paying an ever-larger share of their incomes toward medical expenses and because many corporations have stopped providing health coverage to retirees, forcing many to work until Medicare is available at 65.
''Maybe people have recovered from the stock market plunge,'' said Sara E. Rix, a senior policy adviser with the AARP Public Policy Institute. ''But many people are still anxious about what may happen to the market, and that has caused many to delay retirement.''
Here are the stories of five Americans working well past age 65.
Patricia Cotton, 72
Home Care Aide
At age 72, Patricia Cotton toils 60 hours a week as a home care aide. Monday through Friday, she drives the 45 minutes from her home in Hyattsville, Md., to Washington to care for a 98-year-old with heart disease and other problems. Each day she works 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.
''It's hard because I have a lot of lifting to do,'' said Ms. Cotton, who often bathes, turns over and changes her patient. ''But I have no choice. I had hoped to retire at age 65. I was looking forward to it. But then I lost my money.''
Ms. Cotton, an immigrant from Trinidad, says she had faithfully put money every few weeks into her Individual Retirement Account, entrusting it to a broker.
''I lost about $150,000,'' she said. ''I'd been putting money into it the last 25 or 30 years. My broker had me in high-risk investments. I didn't pay much attention. He said, 'You were doing so good.' ''
But then the recession hit, and her I.R.A. lost half of its value -- money that had been intended to supplement her $1,200-a-month Social Security check to enable her to retire at age 65.
''I thought he was going to do something better for me,'' Ms. Cotton said. ''I didn't know better.'' When the market nose-dived, she panicked and withdrew the rest of the money from her I.R.A. She was disappointed to discover that she had to pay almost half of that in tax and penalties.
''That left me all the way down,'' she said. ''When I lost my money, there was nothing else I could have done. I had to keep going.''
Ms. Cotton, a proud, divorced woman who has four children and seven grandchildren, lives on the second floor of a house that she fully paid off over 25 years. A daughter lives on the first floor, but Ms. Cotton refuses to take any money from her children.
She usually returns from work at 8 a.m., has breakfast, goes to sleep at 9 and wakes up at 3:30 to prepare to return to work.
''When you do something for so long, you get used to it,'' she said. ''But with that patient, you have to watch him constantly.''
She receives her monthly Social Security check and puts it in a safe money market account that will be her retirement nest egg.
But when will she retire? ''I have to continue for a little while,'' she said. ''I just hope my health keeps up. So far it's going pretty good.''
Dr. Rafael Garza, 87
Physician
Dr. Rafael Garza vividly remembers the day he received his medical degree 62 years ago -- it was April 17, 1950, in Monterrey, Mexico. Today, at age 87, he is still going strong, having moved from the often joyous but frequently grueling practice of family medicine to focusing on wound care.
On Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays he does his rounds at Mission Regional Medical Center in Mission, Tex., in the Rio Grande Valley, treating bedsores, protecting burn victims from infections and helping diabetics who have had amputations.
''It seems that I always wanted to be a physician,'' Dr. Garza said. ''And now that I am a physician, I still enjoy practicing medicine.''
Dr. Garza did his residency in family medicine in St. Louis and did follow-up residencies in Fort Worth and San Antonio, ultimately setting up a family practice in McAllen.
To this day, he speaks lovingly of that specialty: ''You deliver the mother, then you take care of the baby, and that child continues as your patient, as he grows and develops. It's been exciting.''
When he first moved to McAllen 55 years ago, there were few doctors in the area; today there are 600. ''There were two surgeons and two obstetricians, and we were family physicians, and we were delivering more babies than the hospital was at the time,'' he said. ''We were doing house calls and doing deliveries -- we had an average of five a day. The time has gone by, and I'm still here.''
As much as he loved family medicine, he knew he could not keep running around so much. So in 1999, at age 74, he switched practices by taking a series of courses in wound care. ''I thought that would be a slower practice,'' he said. Now he sees only inpatients, handling a load of 12 to 18 people.
The emergency room takes care of the trauma, he noted, while he does the meticulous follow-up, trying to ease pain and repair wounds and wounded psyches.
''We have a lot of people in this area who have diabetes, and they don't have a family doctor, and they neglect their diabetes,'' he said. ''Complications show up, and then there are sometimes amputations. I don't treat diabetes. But I do see the pressure ulcers.''
''Believe it or not, I still enjoy it very much,'' he said. ''I've been there so long, everybody is very supportive of me. I get a lot of appreciation.''
Carol Berman, 77
Retail Clerk
In many ways, Carol Berman, 77, had a charmed career. In 1983, she began as executive assistant to the head of a start-up cellphone company in Columbus, Ohio. That company merged with another, and soon she was executive assistant to the head of Cellular One. After several more mergers, she found herself assistant to the chief executive of Verizon Wireless.
She retired in 2000, at age 66. ''I loved my job, and I would have stayed, but I was already a fossil in the company,'' she said.
So she moved to West Palm Beach, expecting a relaxed, fulfilling life as a grandmother -- she has three daughters, two stepdaughters and seven grandchildren, six of them girls.
''I worked all my life,'' Ms. Berman said. ''When we moved to Florida to retire, I pictured myself sitting by the pool and playing cards and mah-jongg. I tried that, and I found out these people start playing at 6 p.m. You have to start dinner at 5 so you can be in bed by 8. I said, 'I can't do this.' And so I started looking for things to do.''
She applied for jobs at a nearby mall, and when the Dillard's department store there offered her a position, she leapt at the opportunity. That was 10 years ago; soon she was a mainstay in the store's Ralph Lauren Polo department, which attracts many shoppers who play polo in the Palm Beach area.
''Our Polo shop is gorgeous,'' she said. ''It doesn't just happen. The people who work there make it beautiful.''
Ms. Berman said she loved the job in the beginning. ''There was not the same kind of pressure,'' she said. ''It was easy to sell. Times were good. We're near the polo grounds, so we get a lot of equestrians who come from overseas to play polo, and many remember me.''
But financial bubbles burst, sales at the Polo shop slowed, and Dillard's management raised the pressure. ''This whole retail thing is very difficult,'' Ms. Berman said. ''I enjoy the people. I enjoy the customers. But there is a lot of pressure. We have quotas we have to meet. For me it's $244 an hour. I've had two pay cuts for missing my quota. I earned $16 an hour. But now I'm down to $13.''
''I'm really good at this,'' she added, but the recession and cuts in advertising caused sales to slide.
''I'm looking for additional things to do that would give me more satisfaction,'' she said. She plans to join a committee that fights to prevent cuts in Social Security and Medicare.
William Buettner, 78
Plumbing Inspector
William Buettner, the son of a plumber, grew up in Baltimore, near Pimlico Race Course.
''My dad wanted to be a lawyer, but he didn't become one,'' Mr. Buettner said. ''He'd say, 'I want you to be a lawyer.' I said, 'Pop, I don't want to be a lawyer.' He said, 'If you're not going to be a lawyer, you're going to have to be a plumber.' ''
So he became a plumber. He did private plumbing jobs until age 45, when he quit to become a plumbing instructor at Patuxent, a maximum-security state prison in Jessup, Md.
''I felt safer in the prison than I did in the street,'' Mr. Buettner said. ''I never had any problem. They didn't look at the teachers like they looked at the guards. They saw us as trying to help them. Many times they'd say, 'Mr. Buettner, if I had you as a father, I wouldn't be here today.' ''
At age 62, he retired from the prison. ''I took a year off, thinking, I'm glad to get out of there,'' he said. ''But at the end of a year, I couldn't wait to get back to work. I was just bored.''
The prison director invited him back, and he taught at Patuxent for two more years. Around the time he was leaving that job, the plumbing inspector for the City of Annapolis asked him whether he could help out one or two days a week.
That was 12 years ago, and at 78, Mr. Buettner is still a plumbing inspector for the city. Although Annapolis has many historically protected buildings, there are plenty of commercial jobs and residential renovations that require inspections.
''I like to be active,'' Mr. Buettner said. ''I go into apartment buildings, and it's three stories up or three floors down. And it keeps my mind sharp, the contact with other people.''
''When I started, I felt it was good to make some extra money,'' he said. ''But now with this economy, and property taxes and gas prices going up, it's feeling like very helpful money.'' He earns about $18,000 a year from his inspection work, examining whether plumbers used the right piping and did the work properly.
''I've been a master plumber for 45 or 50 years, and there doesn't seem to be the pride in workmanship that there was years ago,'' he said. ''It's more speed and get the job done. Now everything is plastic. Years ago, it was cast-iron pipe and lead. Now it's plastic PVC pipe. You can take your shoe and step on it, and it will crack. A rat or mouse will chew through it. With cast-iron pipe, they didn't even try. If you flush a toilet with PVC pipe in the wall, it sounds like Niagara Falls.''
Mr. Buettner, who plans to retire at age 80, sees another disturbing change: ''Today it's always, 'Go get a new one.' Don't repair anything. Tear it out, throw it out, and get a new thing.''
Ethel Rusher, 72
Louise King, 92
Retail Workers
Last Feb. 18, Walmart phased out Ethel Rusher's and Louise King's positions as people greeters at its store in Bremerton, Wash., 15 miles west of Seattle. The two are now stocking shelves, Saturdays through Wednesdays, in the health and beauty aids department.
Ms. Rusher is 72, and Ms. King -- who is Ms. Rusher's mother -- is 92, making her one of the oldest of Walmart's 1.4 million employees in the United States.
''I don't think Social Security is enough to retire on,'' said the daughter, explaining why she was still working.
Ms. King said that she continued to work because ''I don't want to sit down and die.'' The daughter was quick to add, however, ''If she didn't live with us, she'd need it financially, too.''
Ms. Rusher said: ''Right now I'm satisfied working. I drive my mother back and forth. Although sometimes it's hard to go to work, but not always.''
Their job involves helping customers and stocking and straightening up shelves with skin creams, shampoo, toothpaste and aspirin. Because Ms. Rusher badly hurt her back years ago lifting patients while working at a hospital, doctors have ordered her not to lift more than 15 pounds or work on a ladder. She makes sure her mother doesn't do strenuous work either.
What Ms. Rusher likes most about working at Walmart are the people. ''We have customers who hunt you up and like talking with us,'' she said. ''Some will even hug you. They miss us at the front. The store still has four greeters. They said they had too many.''
She and her mother work 35 hours a week, from 3 to 11 p.m., five days a week. On their days off -- Thursday and Friday -- mother and daughter do laundry, go to doctors and see their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Ms. Rusher said she had five children, three in Bremerton and two in California, as well as 13 grandchildren, seven of them in Bremerton.
Ms. Rusher, who has worked for Walmart for five years, said she planned to retire in two years, when her 401(k) plan fully vests -- although she said she might cut back to part time, instead of retiring.
At that point, she plans to supplement her Social Security by sewing. ''I've been sewing since I was a teenager,'' she said. ''I used to make formals, wedding dresses and stuff.''
''A lot of people who work at Walmart tell us we should retire,'' Ms. Rusher said. ''But we just enjoy it.''
''Some people,'' she added, ''just say they wish they still had their mothers, that I'm lucky.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STILL ON THE JOB: Clockwise from left: Patricia Cotton, Dr. Rafael Garza, William Buettner and Ethel Rusher. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1)
MAKING ROUNDS: Dr. Rafael Garza, 87, has a wound care practice at Mission Regional Medical Center in Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
POLO IN FLORIDA: One Saturday, Carol Berman, 77, of West Palm Beach was going to work at a Dillard's store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MASTER PLUMBER: William Buettner, 78, a plumbing inspector in Annapolis, Md., once taught prison inmates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (69%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY OF ACTUARIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (76%); MARYLAND, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



377 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Trading the Elliptical for Video

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
At a DVD release party last week at the Jewish Community Center in Manhattan, middle-aged women confessed to feeling like schoolgirls as they ate hummus and snapped up copies of a new series, ''Lord of the Abs,'' $70 for 5 discs. The lord in question was one Gilad Janklowicz, 57, an Israeli fitness instructor known for jaunty seaside aerobics (set in Hawaii), a deep tan and stomach muscles like Atlas.
''I'm definitely buying something tonight,'' said Lisa Nord, an elementary-school social worker in Manhattan. Ron Barranco of Staten Island gestured at a table covered in DVDs. ''Would you like them all?'' he asked his wife, Joanne Barranco. ''Get them.'' 
The heyday of Jack LaLanne and Jane Fonda may have gone the way of leg warmers and Betamax, but fitness videos have not only endured, they are back in vogue. During the recession, the fitness DVD industry has thrived as consumers opted for $15 videos instead of gym memberships, according to the research firm IbisWorld, which says that fitness DVD production revenue jumped 12.6 percent in 2012, to $264.5 million.
Joni Olseen, 58, who works in marketing in Minneapolis, has amassed a collection of about 100 fitness DVDs. ''You're working out on your own terms,'' Ms. Olseen said. ''I'm in as good shape now as when I used to go to the gym.''
And the programs have never before been so intense. (Try doing P90X after eating Cheerios.) Hilary Raupp, 40, had grown bored of her gym. But ''I wasn't looking for a Jane Fonda riff,'' said Ms. Raupp, a homemaker who lives in Doylestown, Pa. ''I was looking for a real program.'' So she bought ''Insanity,'' an extreme interval-training DVD series that she said cost $180.
''I love it,'' Ms. Raupp said, and since her old gym cost $100 a month for both her and husband, plus $8 to $25 more when they took a class, ''we saved money by month three.''
You might think that working out at home without a trainer would lead to more injuries, but Dr. Thomas M. Best, a director of the division of sports medicine at Ohio State, said no evidence supports that, though he stressed that if you have a condition like heart disease or diabetes, you should check with a doctor before beginning an at-home program.
Offering further credence to the genre, professional instructors and gyms, rather than models and actresses, are increasingly headlining videos. This month, Canyon Ranch began selling its first fitness DVD, ''Canyon Ranch: Strong & Sculpted'' ($16.99), set amid cactuses in the Tucson desert. ''We really just wanted to be able to offer an opportunity for individuals to have the experience of Canyon Ranch that don't have the financial ability to come,'' said Heather Schmidt, a fitness instructor at the ranch, who is also in the new video.
This summer, Tracy Anderson, who has helped sculpture the bodies of Madonna, Nicole Richie and Jennifer Lopez, will introduce a series for pregnant women. (She's had T-shirts made up that read: ''Staying in is the new going out in fitness.'')
It will share shelf space with ''Exhale: Core Fusion 30 Day Sculpt'' from Exhale Spa; ''Rhythmica: Dance Cardio Party'' from Marc Santa Maria, the regional director of group fitness for Crunch New York; a popular series of Bollywood-theme video workouts from Hemalayaa, an instructor whose emphasis is on having fun; and ''Bethenny's Skinnygirl Workout'' from Bethenny Frankel, the reality-TV star, and the yoga instructor Mike McArdle. And Ms. Fonda, the veteran, last year came out with fitness DVDs for baby boomers.
Industry executives are also beginning to offer live-streaming and on-demand subscription services. Bill Sondheim, president of Gaiam, one of the largest domestic producers and distributors of fitness DVDs, which is based in Louisville, Colo., last year introduced GaiamTV, costing $9.95 a month for unlimited access to more than 500 fitness videos.
Of all the genres available, yoga is the most popular, according to IbisWorld. That's not surprising given the variety of styles, Mr. McArdle said.
Mr. McArdle met Ms. Frankel several years ago when she was taking his yoga class on the Upper East Side, long before she was a cast member of ''The Real Housewives of New York,'' and he has since trained her privately. He says that at-home practice has its advantages: ''It brings you in touch with the solemnity and the quiet in your own space.''
Including trainers could improve customers' perception of celebrity workout videos. ''People don't think they're a serious program,'' said Jill Ross, an owner of Collage Video, based in Minneapolis, which sells more than 2,000 titles, up from about 150 when it was founded in 1987.
Mr. Sondheim of Gaiam agreed. Instructors like Rodney Yee and Mari Winsor are more popular with customers, he said, than Kim Kardashian, with whom Gaiam made a workout DVD.
Perhaps because celebrities covet privacy, though, some of them use fitness DVDs. Ms. Anderson said that Gwyneth Paltrow, her student and business partner, and Ms. Lopez both used DVDs when beginning her program. ''Gwyneth was like the worst dancer in the entire world,'' Ms. Anderson said, ''and now she's great.''
Even devoted gymgoers use DVDs to supplement workouts. ''I do it on days that I can't motivate myself to get out and go,'' said Lauren Ramakrishna, 27, a Web editor who relies on ''Biggest Loser,'' Jillian Michaels, Bob Harper and ''Insanity'' DVDs when she can't make it from her Jersey City apartment to a nearby New York Sports Club. ''It's really about keeping things interesting and different.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN VOGUE: Gilad Janklowicz, in the black shirt, talks to Lisa Nord, a social worker, at an event for his DVD fitness series, ''Lord of the Abs.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
AT HOME: From left, scenes from the videos of Hemalayaa
Bethenny Frankel and Mike McArdle
 and the health resort Canyon Ranch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); WOMEN (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); SPORTS MEDICINE (76%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); CD & DVD DRIVES (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); DIABETES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) HAWAII, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (70%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



378 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: New Rules May Curtail Some Fees In Mortgage

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said it planned to propose tighter mortgage lending regulations that would limit the ability of banks and mortgage brokers to charge certain transaction fees, possibly ending one of the most abusive costs levied on consumers when they buy a house.
Bureau officials said that the rules, which were released Wednesday ahead of formal introduction this summer, would ban mortgage companies from charging origination fees that vary with the amount of the loan. 
Those fees are sometimes referred to as origination points and are disclosed in a blizzard of documents and fees that most home buyers face at closing. But they can easily be confused with the upfront discount points that borrowers often pay to secure a lower interest rate.
The consumer bureau also said it would require that lenders offer a reduced interest rate when a consumer opted to pay upfront discount points and would require lenders to offer a loan option without points. During the financial crisis, some lenders charged the points without lowering the interest rate.
Changing that rule, the bureau believes, will make it easier for consumers to weigh offers from multiple lenders.
''Mortgages today often come with so many different types of fees and points that it can be hard to compare offers,'' Richard Cordray, the director of the consumer bureau, said. ''We want to bring greater transparency to the market so consumers can clearly see their options and choose the loan that is right for them.''
The proposals were intended to fulfill requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in response to the financial crisis. They were not a surprise to banking groups, but those groups still expressed dismay, saying that they essentially repeat changes that the Federal Reserve put in place just two years ago to address some of the same problems.
''They are adding a whole new set of additional rules and regulations onto what we already have,'' said Rod Alba, a vice president in the mortgage markets division of the American Bankers Association, an industry group. ''It is this rapid succession of rule-making after rule-making that is so worrisome to banks.''
Consumer groups, however, said the proposals were necessary to protect borrowers from being taken advantage of in what is usually the largest single financial commitment in their lives.
''The provisions in Dodd-Frank were added in response to specific abuses that were well documented during the mortgage boom,'' said Barry Zigas, housing director for the Consumer Federation of America. ''Too often, home buyers found that the fees they were being charged were not as advertised.''
The proposals outlined Wednesday will be reviewed by the public and a small-business panel to be convened by the consumer bureau. The panel is required by Dodd-Frank as a way of trying to limit the effect of new regulations on small businesses.
After taking comments, the bureau will formally propose the rules this summer and, after another round of comments, hopes to make them permanent by January.
Consumer bureau officials said that unscrupulous mortgage lenders sometimes tried to disguise origination fees by calling them origination points. Expressed as a percentage, the origination fee paid then varied with the amount of the loan.
But bureau officials said that because the fees covered paperwork that was the same whether the loan was for $100,000 or $1 million, they were proposing that mortgage brokers and creditors be allowed to charge only flat origination fees. That in turn will promote competition among mortgage lenders and brokers and lower consumer charges, the officials said.
Mr. Alba of the bankers association said that whatever origination fees were charged, they were reflected in the loan's annual percentage rate, which is disclosed on the mandated forms that a home buyer is given at closing. ''To the extent that any of the fees are outrageous, they will be reflected in the pricing disclosures that are in place today,'' he said.
Other provisions required by Dodd-Frank are also being proposed by the consumer bureau, including qualification and screening standards for loan originators. Those proposals are intended to make different types of originators -- banks, thrifts, mortgage brokers and nonprofit organizations -- subject to the same qualification requirements.
Dodd-Frank also prohibits the payment of incentives by mortgage lenders to the loan originators. and requires the consumer bureau to write a rule prohibiting it. The Federal Reserve issued a rule in 2010 to address the issue; the consumer bureau rule will incorporate the Fed's guidance while trying to clarify some issues, the bureau said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Cordray, director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said consumers could better compare mortgage offers with greater transparency in the market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



379 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Easy Making Do With a Measly Million

BYLINE: By CHARLES DELAFUENTE; Alain Delaqueriere contributed research.

 BODY:
WHO'S rich?
Occupy Wall Street has its 1 percent answer, of course. A consulting firm that studies the wealthy has a broader definition, based on millionaire status. Many financial planners have a cautionary third answer -- that appearances, and account balances, can be deceiving, and you may not be as rich as you think you are.
The Occupy Wall Street forces focus more on income than on wealth. But if its 1 percent label were applied to assets, the dividing line between the 1 percent and everyone else would be $8.4 million. 
Based on its research, the consulting firm, Spectrem Group, said about 8.6 million American households had a net worth of at least $1 million last year, not including their equity in a home -- just over 7 percent of the 117 million American households.
George H. Walper Jr., the president of Spectrem, in Lake Forest, Ill., estimated that most of those in the low end of the millionaire class did not have most of their assets in formal retirement funds. ''A lot of it is in other places,'' he said, even if it is intended for retirement. Many people in that group are already retired, and their average age is 62.
People planning decades of retirement based on $1 million need to recognize that that amount is not anywhere near what it was a century ago, and that they will never live like millionaires, said Larry Luxenberg, a fee-only financial planner at Lexington Avenue Capital Management in New City, N.Y.
So how do you make $1 million last?
Take, for example, a hypothetical couple about to retire who have assets of just over $1 million. To help them, assume they have no children who are financially dependent on them. Also assume that they will be entitled to maximum Social Security benefits, which are just over $30,000 a year each (this year) for people who start collecting at age 66. (Delaying the start of benefits for up to four years increases the amount to be received but might, for some, require earlier withdrawals of retirement funds that would be subject to income tax.)
On the minus side, assume that this couple has no other pension plans that will provide retirement income -- although many people who entered the workplace 40 years ago have significant defined-benefit pension plans from corporate or government employers. Mr. Luxenberg said there was a one-in-four chance that one member of a couple who had reached 65 would live into his or her 90s. So that person will have to plan for 30 years of income, he said. A rule of thumb, he said, was to draw 4 to 6 percent of retirement assets, adjusted for inflation, each year. For a hypothetical millionaire, that would be $40,000 to $60,000 a year, plus Social Security benefits.
''Folks with $1 million in a well-balanced portfolio can be comfortable,'' he said, but ''it's not a lavish lifestyle.'' He added: ''The idea of a millionaire being someone who is really rich, that goes back to the Roaring '20s and the Great Depression.''
Inflation has eroded the value of $1 million considerably, and as Mr. Luxenberg noted, ''Three percent inflation over 30 years means you need 2.4 dollars for every dollar that you'd need now.'' Withdrawing 4 percent of a nest egg each year used to be a standard formula but is no longer considered a hard-and-fast rule, said Greg Daugherty, executive editor of Consumer Reports and a retirement columnist for the Consumer Reports Money Adviser newsletter.
Four percent might be too much for someone who retired early, or whose money was largely in fixed-income assets.
One strategy to prevent running out of money in old age is to buy an annuity, which gives the annuity seller a specified amount in return for a predetermined monthly payment for life.
Matthew Grove, a vice president of the New York Life Insurance Company and head of its annuity department, said of the 4 percent rule, ''there's no guarantee that it will work,'' even if it feels safe.
An annuity ''guarantees that you can't outlive your money, but guarantees that you can spend more over the life of your retirement,'' he said.
A $1 million New York Life annuity bought by a 66-year-old man, with payments starting immediately, known as a single-premium immediate annuity, would pay $65,666 a year -- far more than a 4 percent withdrawal from a $1 million pot.
The downside is that someone who died at a relatively young age might have had unspent money to leave to heirs if it had not been put into an annuity. There are also annuities that provide death benefits and payments for spouses, although the monthly payments are lower.
Mr. Grove said someone with $1 million might consider using only some of it to buy an annuity. The goal, he said, is to have an annuity and Social Security benefits cover retirees' most important expenses.
Mr. Luxenberg said annuity buyers were paying for guarantees in the annuities' cost. But he explained that ''after the period we've come through, people are craving certainty and guarantees, and they're willing to pay for guarantees.'' For those people, he said, an annuity ''could work.''
For those who will keep their assets and figure out how much to withdraw annually, Mr. Daugherty said, ''Try to figure out what your expenses are going to be in retirement'' before retiring. ''Make a budget, even if you never have before,'' he added. ''One advantage of doing that is that it might show the need to work a few more years, if that is feasible, to allow the desired annual withdrawals in retirement.''
''The value of the 4 percent rule these days, for one thing, is it keeps people from doing anything too crazy, like 8 or 10 percent,'' Mr. Daugherty said.
For some people who have been diligent savers, the 4 percent benchmark might encourage them to dip into assets, rather than trying to live only on the income their assets yield. ''Some people are terrified of any spending,'' Mr. Daugherty said, but they should not deny themselves ''the legitimate pleasures of retirement, enjoying things like travel.''
But for those millionaires on paper, while such legitimate pleasures will be theirs, the bottom line, as Mr. Walper of Spectrem put it, ''They're not buying a Duesenberg.''

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (93%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (61%); INCOME TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



380 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Strategies for Growth, Even in Down Times

BYLINE: By ANNE FIELD

 BODY:
IN the middle of 2010, Tom Sesti decided he needed to do something about the cost pressures that had been plaguing his business, Bandals. Based in Rochester, Mich., the company had introduced a product, women's sandals with interchangeable decorative tops, soon after the economic crisis hit in 2008. Almost immediately, the five-employee company was hit with cost increases of 15 to 30 percent for manufacturing and raw materials.
Mr. Sesti decided Bandals needed to sell its way out of the problem. ''We had to get to a level where our economies of scale cleared the hurdle of all our fixed costs,'' he said. To that end, he considered two paths -- offering a new product or expanding overseas. After running the numbers, he decided to do both.
Lots of people advise staying aggressive during a difficult economy, but spending money when times are tough can be scary. This small-business guide looks at how Bandals and two other companies managed to do it. 
CONSIDER NEW MARKETS When Mr. Sesti decided to focus on increasing revenue, his first thought was to find ways to balance the seasonality of Bandals, which sell best in warm months.
He came up with two: making jewelry that could be used to decorate the ankles or tops of cold-weather boots, and expanding sales in countries with either year-round warm weather or with seasons that run counter to those in the United States.
When he analyzed his expenses, Mr. Sesti started with the cost to manufacture the jewelry items in China. He added promotional expenses such as trade show attendance. Then he talked to retail customers and his sales force, and he came up with an estimate for how many he could sell. He figured he could break even in a year.
When he looked at expanding the sale of Bandals to 15 countries overseas, he found he could do it for less than he expected. He determined that he could sell through local distributors and that his additional costs would primarily result from the time needed to identify partners, negotiate agreements and produce samples.
As a result, he decided to pursue both strategies. ''The reality was, there was a 50-50 chance one would work,'' he said. ''Given our costs, we realized we could try both.'' As it turned out, both worked. In 2011, he said, revenue increased 250 percent and profits tripled.
DO NOT RUSH THE DECISION In early 2009, as sales declined at an Ashburn, Va., technology company called Odin, Patrick J. Sweeney II, the chief executive, reduced overhead by 15 percent. Then demand for the company's product -- software for radio-frequency identification systems -- started to pick up. But, banks, technology companies and other clients that bought the sophisticated, multimillion-dollar tagging systems often took a year to sign a deal, and Mr. Sweeney could not wait that long. He decided Odin had to find other uses for its technology.
He called a meeting of the top seven executives at his farm in Middleburg, Va. Over the course of a day, they brainstormed, analyzing various suggestions to see whether the sales cycle would be short enough and the marketing expenses modest enough.
The group gathered around a white board and noted each suggestion. Maybe the radio-frequency ID systems could help companies keep track of their laptops? Maybe they could help customers in the oil and gas industry track the many nearly identical parts on drilling platforms? After about an hour and a half, Mr. Sweeney erased the weaker suggestions, leaving about 12 possibilities.
Next, they considered whether there was an established competitor in the market. They analyzed the ideas to see if they involved something of critical value to a customer. They evaluated potential costs. Finally, they addressed how easy it would be to identify and reach the right decision-makers. They were down to five types of businesses that could use Odin's technology. Three months of research narrowed the field to three.
The first consisted of Defense Department and law enforcement agencies that keep track of weapons. The second was what is known as the cabinetry market in hospitals -- cabinets installed and used by medical suppliers to store devices. Third, they considered companies that might use the tags to connect customers to social media sites. Customers visiting a car dealership, for example, could swipe a tag at a kiosk, updating their whereabouts on their Facebook pages and also survey friends about, say, a car's color. As a result, the car -- and the dealer -- could be exposed to hundreds of the customers' friends. The technology could also be connected to the dealer's customer database, pulling up records and making the checkout process easier and faster.
In mid-2009, Odin started approaching government agencies. Most of the resulting contracts have been ''six-figure deals,'' said Mr. Sweeney, who expects it to take two years for the company to attract larger commitments. Six months later, Odin entered the cabinetry market, which proved more lucrative. In fact, when it became clear that the area had potential, he doubled the company's research and development budget to enable more sophisticated tweaking of the technology. And his social media efforts have been so successful that he recently created a new company, dwinQ, to sell those products.
Last year, Mr. Sweeney said, revenue for the 40-employee company was up about 30 percent -- with about half of all revenue coming from the new markets.
FOCUS ON PROFITS In 2008, Adrian Nazari watched as the market for his three-year-old business, Financial Crossing, fell apart. Based in Palo Alto, Calif., the company sold a technology that financial services firms used to help customers manage their debt. But as the market fell and fortunes declined, many clients pulled the plug on their contracts. Financial Crossing's revenue fell 60 percent from 2008 to 2009.
At first, Mr. Nazari decided to wait it out. But by mid-2009, he realized he had to change his strategy. He and his management team studied existing market research and conducted a survey of about 1,000 consumers. They found that respondents were considerably more concerned about their debt levels than they had been before the downturn. That lent credence to an idea Mr. Nazari had to build on the company's existing technology to focus on consumers, rather than banks, and provide an online service to help them manage their financial obligations. It would be free to consumers; banks would pay for each transaction that resulted.
Crucial to the decision was determining how long it would take to turn a profit. Costs, Mr. Nazari knew, would be substantial. It would take approximately $3 million, he figured, to retool the company's technology. And the expenses for marketing, rebranding and public relations, as well as overhauling the sales system, could be another $6 million. But the potential market was much larger as well. ''We were now looking at over 100 million U.S. consumers who potentially could use our products,'' he said. He figured it would take two to three years to break even.
Mr. Nazari, who changed the name of the company to Credit Sesame and based it in Sunnyvale, Calif., proceeded to develop the new technology and find money to finance the new enterprise. He raised about $1.2 million in venture capital in late 2010 (a year later, he would gather another $6.1 million), and by January 2011 he was ready to introduce the service.
Now, he says, ''We have hundreds of thousands of consumers using our product.'' Credit Sesame did not start taking in revenue until the middle of 2011, but he expects the company, which has 24 employees, to approach $10 million this year. He anticipates breaking even by the first quarter of 2013.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Sesti needed more sales at his sandal company, Bandals, to lower his fixed costs. He decided to follow the sun. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (76%); SALES FORCE (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); JEWELRY (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TRADE SHOWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



381 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: California and Quebec Near an Agreement for Trading of Carbon Permits

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- California and Quebec moved to knit together their fledgling carbon markets on Wednesday as California proposed a new regulation allowing cross-border trading of the permits that industries must acquire to cover their emissions of greenhouse gases.
It is the first cross-border carbon trading system created since 2005, when the European Union introduced such a trading network to help it meet emissions limits set by the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty that went into effect that year. 
For advocates of market-based systems, the linking of the two systems is a significant step forward. But the move, involving just one state and one province, underscores the incremental and scattershot way that governments are generally adopting regulations to slow climate change.
A cap and trade system sets an overall ceiling on the emissions and issues pollution allowances to industries. Companies that do not use all their allowances can sell their surplus to companies that need allowances. That gives flexibility to high-emitting industries like steel and cement manufacturers as they make the transition.
Financial services companies like Goldman Sachs are also poised to take part in the new markets.
Other existing carbon markets are not thriving at the moment. The prices for permits on the European carbon market, which had long hovered around 15 euros (nearly $20) a ton, dropped to about 7 euros a ton late last year and have remained in that range.
Two economists at the German Institute for Economic Researchargued recently that the low prices reflect the stockpiling of permits by industry with the expectation that they will be worth more later.
In the most recent permit auction by the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a consortium of Northeast and mid-Atlantic states, 63 percent of available allowances sold for only $1.93 a ton.
Yet Mary D. Nichols, the chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in an interview that the pending alliance with Quebec represented ''a major expansion'' of the state's program.
The board has spent nearly six years drafting and tweaking the rules for California's pathbreaking carbon market. ''We now will be able to show how it is truly possible to do linkage'' with other markets, she said.
The Western Climate Initiative, whose members include Quebec and California, was created to pave the way for this kind of partnership. British Columbia, also a member, is expected to become a formal part of the trading system in a few months. Ms. Nichols said she was also planning a trip to Australia to discuss whether its new emissions trading program could be compatible with California's.
South Korea and Mexico have also passed laws creating similar markets.
There is no immediate sign that other states want to join the California-Quebec system, but Ms. Nichols suggested that such linkages would continue to spread. Even if no national program in the United States allowing such trading emerges in the next five years, she predicted, ''we will have a much larger fabric of states and provinces working together.''
Quebec's minister for sustainable development, Pierre Arcand, also predicted that the program would grow. ''The cap and trade system is acknowledged as one of the most efficient and least costly economic tools available to reduce GHG emissions,'' he said in reference to greenhouse gases.
While California's program officially took effect in January, emissions limits will not be enforced until 2013.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about a system of carbon trading permits between Canada and California misstated its status in some copies. The system, and a California law to establish it, have been proposed; they have not been established. The error was repeated in the headline in some copies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS CREDITS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERVIEWS (67%); CEMENT MFG (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012



382 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: With Primary Over, a New Battle for Indiana Senate Seat Begins

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and TRIP GABRIEL; Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting from Washington, and Steven Greenhouse from New York.

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS -- The morning after Senator Richard G. Lugar, in his 36th year in office, was overwhelmingly defeated in a Republican primary election, this state awoke on Wednesday to another surprise: A new battle, now likely to be far fiercer and costlier than once expected, was already brewing over the seat he leaves behind.
Democrats were casting the general election fight as a referendum on whether moderates should still have a place in Washington, while Tea Party organizers said it would be seen as a national test of the movement's enduring strength. 
Democratic leaders, who had doubted their odds against Mr. Lugar, a Republican so moderate that even the leaders admitted that plenty of Democrats liked him, sounded giddy about their November opponent: Richard E. Mourdock, a Tea Party-supported Republican who seized a remarkable 61 percent of the vote in part by denouncing bipartisanship and pledging to an unwavering conservative approach.
''Democratic donors across the country are going to see this as a prime pickup opportunity,'' said Matt Canter, a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, who added that the Indiana seat would fall among five top Republican-held seats being targeted in the fight for control of the Senate.
Labor leaders, too, said they saw an opportunity now in Indiana. ''We're all ramping up our plans as we speak,'' said Nancy J. Guyott, president of the Indiana A.F.L.-C.I.O.
National conservative groups, some of which had poured more than $3 million to benefit Mr. Mourdock in the primary, were poised to send still more if needed. The number of such outside groups also appeared likely to grow if the contest here, against Representative Joe Donnelly, a Democrat, appears truly competitive -- a notion some conservative leaders remained skeptical about, given Indiana's Republican leanings.
''It's a big race because a lot hinges on our success,'' said Brendan Steinhauser, director of federal and state campaigns at FreedomWorks, which trains Tea Party members and which spent about $850,000 in Mr. Mourdock's victory and plans to be similarly involved in the general election.
''If Mourdock were not to win,'' Mr. Steinhauser said, the gloating would come not just from Democrats but establishment Republicans, pointing to the Tea Party. ''They would want to blame that on us -- 'See, we told you so,' '' he said.
By Wednesday, the outlines of a new political battle were emerging, with Democrats trying to paint Mr. Mourdock as a far-right candidate with little appeal for independents or moderate Republicans, and conservatives portraying Mr. Donnelly as a typical Democrat.
The Club for Growth, which had spent money on television and radio commercials against Mr. Lugar in the primary and said it would contribute more, if needed, in the general election, said Mr. Donnelly was ''an economic liberal who votes in lock-step'' with Democratic leaders.
Mr. Donnelly, who was elected in 2006 to represent a northern Indiana district, described himself as among the most conservative Democrats in the House in a moment when, he said, voters are looking for something different than they were in 2010. ''Right now, it's not about fire and brimstone,'' he said. ''It's about jobs and the opportunity for your family to succeed.''
Although President Obama won Indiana in 2008, the state has long been a place where Republicans do well, and Mr. Obama is considered unlikely to win here again. None of it would seem to be fertile ground for a Democratic Senate bid, and some conservative leaders said they remained unconvinced that Mr. Mourdock would have any trouble in November.
But Dan Parker, the chairman of the Indiana Democratic Party, described Mr. Mourdock as an ''extreme Tea Party candidate,'' who would not appeal to a general election audience. ''Dick Lugar was the mainstream Republican,'' he said. ''Indiana is not crazy conservative.''
Senator Chris Coons of Delaware, a Democrat, who rose from nowhere to be elected in 2010 after Republicans there rejected a popular moderate and nominated Tea Party favorite Christine O'Donnell, said he reached out to Mr. Donnelly Tuesday night after Mr. Lugar's defeat.
''I think there's a very good chance he could be the Chris Coons of 2012,'' the senator said.
State Republican leaders, calling on Wednesday for party unity following Mr. Lugar's loss, stood beside Mr. Mourdock on a stage here and seemed eager to play down his Tea Party ties and emphasize his traditional Republican credentials. Complicating the efforts, Mr. Lugar, who was not in attendance at the gathering, issued a sharp statement condemning what he suggested was a rising trend of rejecting political independence and bipartisan conversation.
''He comes right out of the heart, right out of mainstream of our party, and I think that was really, among many, his longest single suit in the huge win that he had yesterday,'' said Gov. Mitch Daniels, the governor, who had endorsed Mr. Lugar and had previously said he viewed Mr. Mourdock as a friend.
Indeed, Mr. Mourdock is in his second term as state treasurer, and he has been known for appearing at local Republican events and county dinners for years; when he announced his bid for the senate, he had a surprising majority of endorsements from the party's county chairmen and chairwomen around the state.
''The first label they're going to try to put on me is that Mourdock is this wild-eyed Tea Party guy,'' Mr. Mourdock said. ''But as the governor said, I've been swimming in the pool of Republican politics a long time,'' he said, growing choked up as he described his love for the party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democrats will likely try to convince voters that Richard Mourdock, the Indiana Republican Senate nominee, is too conservative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SWIKAR PATEL/THE JOURNAL-GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: An Expensive Defeat: While Richard G. Lugar outspent Richard E. Mourdock nearly 3-to-1 in Indiana's Republican Senate primary race, outside conservative and Tea Party groups poured millions of dollars into the state and helped propel the campaign of Mr. Mourdock, who won the election Tuesday by a margin of more than 20 points. (Source: Federal Election Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); REFERENDUMS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); AFL-CIO (54%)

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (92%); JOE DONNELLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (74%) INDIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



383 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Though Disparate, Syria Rebels Tenacious Against Crackdown

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD and HWAIDA SAAD; An employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Syria.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- More than a year into the Syrian uprising, protesters and fighters say, disparate opposition cells inside the country still scramble on their own for money and weapons, creating a risk that different factions will form conflicting loyalties to whoever ends up financing or arming them.
Those who have taken up arms, the fighters, acknowledge that they lack a workable chain of command to coordinate operations and channel arms supplies, even as they plead for international help.
Somehow, this decentralized patchwork of opposition fighters and activists has displayed the tenacity to withstand a withering crackdown that has left thousands dead and neighborhoods reduced to rubble. But it has still not managed to coalesce into a unified force, or identify a national leader, a clear ideology or specific goals -- beyond bringing down President Bashar al-Assad. That atomization, many fear, could turn the country into ''divided emirates'' rather than a viable new system, Abu Omar, an activist in a Damascus suburb, said in a recent interview, complaining that some groups hoard arms and the power they bring.
''Deserving people are not being funded,'' he said, ''and all the money goes to people who do not deserve it.'' 
An eclectic mix of fighters and unarmed protesters opposes Mr. Assad. There are pious clerics and people who admit they rarely pray, experienced soldiers and barely trained former conscripts, wealthy doctors and jobless youths. Some say they want Islamic law, while others insist that civil law alone should rule. Their goals are matters of intense curiosity as the United States and others debate whether and how to directly assist the opposition inside Syria. Ask their views, and the answers can be complex.
Abu Fahad, 30, said the protesters he organizes in Saqba, a Damascus suburb, are ''religious, secular, and people who drink wine and smoke opium'' -- though mostly from the majority Sunni Muslim sect. They are not seeking economic gain, sectarian revenge or an Islamic state, he said, just the dignity of choosing their own president, ''not some idiot who took power from his father as a gift.''
Exuding confidence as he sat openly talking politics in his prosperous furniture shop, Abu Fahad, using a nickname to protect against retribution, said protesters were unlikely to choose leaders from Mr. Assad's Alawite sect after 40 years of his family's rule, but do not hate all Alawites. The proof he offered seemed ominous in its own way: Saqba residents, he said, have killed 30 neighbors suspected of being informants -- all Sunnis.
As the exile opposition and a United Nations-sponsored peace plan fail to stem the violence, attention in Washington is increasingly focused on the opposition inside Syria, raising urgent questions about its motives, leaders and backers.
But Syria remains something of a black box. Amid violence and government restrictions on journalists, fighters and protesters operate largely on their own and out of sight of independent observers. On social media, activists portray themselves as democratic, inclusive and from the grass roots, while the government depicts its opponents as foreign-financed Sunni extremists.
The reality is more complicated, according to interviews with more than 20 activists and fighters, via phone, Skype and face-to-face interviews in Syria and neighboring countries, which offer a glimpse of the uprising's anatomy.
The picture that emerges -- partial and anecdotal -- is of a highly decentralized, proudly local movement, distrustful of the expatriate opposition. Many activists said they wanted both Sunni empowerment and equal rights for all. If there was unanimity, it was in the fierce conviction that future leaders should come from their own ranks -- ''exclusively from this popular movement,'' Abu Omar said -- not from exile groups, like the Syrian Muslim Brotherhood and secular movements.
The fighters and activists knew they were talking to journalists and have an interest in appearing neither sectarian nor extremist. But many spoke candidly of the uprising's flaws and challenges, and one -- a former interior decorator -- volunteered that he had executed three men.
The former decorator, Abu Moayed, also a nickname, said he left his job at a Beirut architecture firm last year, which his employer confirmed, and went home to northern Syria, near the city of Idlib. He said he joined army deserters in the Baba Amr Retribution Battalion, named for the rebellious Homs neighborhood devastated by shelling.
Abu Moayed said the battalion had captured about 35 government soldiers and militiamen and executed 10 after the authorities refused a prisoner exchange. He said he shot three, two Sunnis and an Alawite, who were implicated in killing hundreds. ''Don't ask the reason,'' he said. ''It's not vengeance -- it's our right.''
But he admitted he acted from anger after the government killed two of his uncles, Khalid and Jamil al-Khatib. His father is missing and his wife and children are in hiding, he said, after a defecting soldier showed him a picture of his 5-year-old with words scrawled on the back: ''To be executed.''
Abu Moayad said the battalion bought weapons from the government's own supply, stored in a dairy factory. Its owner, a government militiaman, sells Kalashnikovs and grenade launchers, eager for the money in case he needs to flee, he said.
Recently, he said, he bought weapons on the Iraqi border with $35,000 from wealthy Syrians abroad -- but does not take orders from anyone outside.
''Usually, revolutions are planted by honorable people and harvested by cowards,'' he said. ''In Syria, we will prove the opposite.''
Without known leaders, the opposition has failed to win major help from Western countries afraid to give aid without any accountability. But paradoxically, activists say, that weakness has kept the movement alive and autonomous, hard to decapitate or co-opt. And protesters say local donations provide what little they need -- amplifiers, banners, cellphones.
Sheik Ahmed, a Sunni imam in Damascus, said Muslim Brotherhood supporters tried to take credit for rallying thousands after Friday Prayer. But he said that mosques were the only places where people could routinely assemble, and that crowds there included non-Muslims and Muslims, from secularists to religious extremists.
''Syria is not Egypt or Tunisia,'' Sheik Ahmed said, evoking countries where Islamist groups dominate after broad-based revolts. ''I call for a democratic, civil state -- then every citizen gets his or her rights.''
Amir, 25, an organizer in the Damascus suburb of Douma, expressed conflicting impulses about Islam -- ''I personally don't pray, but I respect my religion'' -- and its role in politics. He said Islamic law should apply to Muslims -- for instance, no wine shops in Muslim neighborhoods -- and accused the government of ''fighting Islamic morals.'' But, he said as he hunched over a laptop uploading protest news, ''we can't impose Islamic law on all citizens.''
Jeffrey White, a defense analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, has tracked hundreds of videos and announcements from 68 self-described rebel battalions.
While many invoke God, expected in a religious country, seven identify explicitly as Islamist, for instance waving black flags with Koranic script, said Mr. White, who advocates military aid to rebels. There have been separate reports of fundamentalist groups operating in the north.
One fighter from Abu Omar's group, the Golan Liberation Gathering, said he and friends sold their cars, rented an apartment, posed as laborers and staked out a government official. When they attacked, security forces overwhelmed them, killing his friends. ''We knew we would die,'' he said. ''I'm not religious, I'm leftist -- but all Syrians became suicidal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Free Syrian Army fighters chanted antigovernment slogans in March as they held up their weapons near a building hit by a Syrian Army tank in Idlib. Left, rebel fighters posing in Idlib. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); OPIUM (50%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (90%) SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



384 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: A Watershed Move, Both Risky and Inevitable

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
President Obama's endorsement of gay marriage on Wednesday was by any measure a watershed. A sitting United States president took sides in what many people consider the last civil rights movement, providing the most powerful evidence to date of how rapidly views are moving on an issue that was politically toxic just five years ago.
Mr. Obama faces considerable risk in jumping into this debate, reluctantly or not, in the heat of what is expected to be a close election. The day before he announced his position, voters in North Carolina -- a critical state for Mr. Obama and the site of the Democratic convention this summer -- approved by a 20-point margin a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. It was the 31st state to pass such an amendment. 
As George W. Bush demonstrated in 2004, when his campaign engineered initiatives against gay marriage in a series of swing states, opponents are far more likely to vote on these issues than supporters. Mitt Romney, the probable Republican presidential candidate, was quick to proclaim his opposition to gay marriage after Mr. Obama spoke. And however much national attitudes may be shifting, the issue remains highly contentious among black and Latino voters, two groups central to Mr. Obama's success.
Yet as Mr. Obama has clearly come to recognize, the forces of history appear to be changing. The president was at risk of seeming politically timid and calculating, standing at the sidelines while a large number of Americans -- including members of both parties -- embraced gay marriage. That is a particularly discordant image, many Democrats said, for the man who was the nation's first black president.
Mr. Obama's declaration may have been belated and unplanned, forced out after his vice president, Joseph R. Biden Jr., during a television interview on Sunday declared his support for same-sex marriage. Still, it is a huge voice added to a chorus that has become increasingly robust, a reminder that a view that had once been relegated to the dark sidelines of political debate has become mainstream.
The very riskiness of what Mr. Obama did -- some commentators were invoking Lyndon B. Johnson's embrace of civil rights in 1964, with all the attendant political perils -- made it hard to understate the historic significance of what took place at the White House on Wednesday.
''If you are one of those who care about this issue, you will not forget where you were when you saw the president deliver those remarks,'' said Chad Griffin, the incoming president of the Human Rights Campaign, a gay advocacy group. ''Regardless of how old you are, it's the first time you have ever seen a president of the United States look into a camera and say that a gay person should be treated equally under the law. The message that that sends, to a young gay or transgendered person struggling to come out, is life changing.''
It also was a reminder of just how quickly public and political attitudes are changing. The first organizers of the modern gay-rights movement, after the June 1969 raid on the Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village in New York City, considered themselves bold in hoping they could pass nondiscrimination acts. They did not seriously contemplate a day when members of the same sex would be permitted to marry.
It has been only 16 years since Bill Clinton -- the second Democratic presidential candidate to campaign before a gay audience at an event open to the news media -- signed the Defense of Marriage Act, which defined marriage as the union of a man and a woman, permitting states to refuse to recognize same-sex marriages conducted in other states.
Mr. Clinton advocated the bill in the midst of a re-election campaign after his aides concluded that opposing it might be risky. Mr. Clinton has since said he regrets that decision; Mr. Obama instructed his Justice Department not to defend the act.
In some ways, Mr. Obama is late to the party. Mr. Biden was just the latest prominent Democrat to announce his support, and many now say that it seems unthinkable that by 2016 any serious Democratic presidential candidate would oppose gay marriage. A series of significant Republican figures -- Ken Mehlman, the former Republican Party chairman, Theodore Olson, who was solicitor general under Mr. Bush -- have also been active in pushing gay marriage.
The North Carolina vote in some ways distracts from what polling shows to be a steady increase in the percentage of Americans who say they support gay marriage or domestic partnerships; it is now a majority. The numbers are particularly high among younger Americans, suggesting that this is a wave likelier to grow than to recede.
All of which suggests that there are, in addition to the risks, clear potential upsides for Mr. Obama. His announcement, while symbolic rather than carrying the force of law, could energize big parts of his base, particularly younger voters, and reassure liberal Democrats who had been disappointed with Mr. Obama on this issue. It will no doubt help with gay people, already among his biggest donors.
And Mr. Obama's announcement came as Mr. Romney has been seeking to shift to the middle; independent voters and women are two constituencies that tend to support gay marriage. Now, though, he is almost certainly going to face pressure from his base to take the fight on gay marriage to Mr. Obama.
''President Obama has now made the definition of marriage a defining issue in the presidential contest, especially in swing states like Ohio, North Carolina, Virginia, Florida and Nevada,'' said Brian S. Brown, the president of the National Organization for Marriage.
In truth, Republicans and Democrats are hardly sure whether this will be a deciding issue in any state, given how pressing economic concerns are, particularly in the swing states.
Polls show that gay marriage is not a huge concern to swing voters. Is Mr. Romney really going to want to spend the next five months talking about gay marriage, rather than the economy and jobs? And Mr. Obama may be no more eager to discuss the issue further, to be drawn into the weeds of this argument.
Yet perhaps on this day, short-term political calculations are not what people are likely to recall in talking about Mr. Obama's interview in years to come.
''I don't think it's about particular states or particular demographics,'' said Steve Elmendorf, a Democratic strategist.
''He said the right thing,'' he said. ''He did the right thing. People are going to overanalyze the politics of this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Times Square in New York, few stopped to watch the president on a giant TV screen, but at the headquarters of the Human Rights Campaign in Washington, all eyes were on Mr. Obama. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



385 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Game Over for the Climate

BYLINE: By JAMES HANSEN. 
James Hansen directs the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and is the author of ''Storms of My Grandchildren.''

 BODY:
GLOBAL warming isn't a prediction. It is happening. That is why I was so troubled to read a recent interview with President Obama in Rolling Stone in which he said that Canada would exploit the oil in its vast tar sands reserves ''regardless of what we do.''
If Canada proceeds, and we do nothing, it will be game over for the climate. 
Canada's tar sands, deposits of sand saturated with bitumen, contain twice the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by global oil use in our entire history. If we were to fully exploit this new oil source, and continue to burn our conventional oil, gas and coal supplies, concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere eventually would reach levels higher than in the Pliocene era, more than 2.5 million years ago, when sea level was at least 50 feet higher than it is now. That level of heat-trapping gases would assure that the disintegration of the ice sheets would accelerate out of control. Sea levels would rise and destroy coastal cities. Global temperatures would become intolerable. Twenty to 50 percent of the planet's species would be driven to extinction. Civilization would be at risk.
That is the long-term outlook. But near-term, things will be bad enough. Over the next several decades, the Western United States and the semi-arid region from North Dakota to Texas will develop semi-permanent drought, with rain, when it does come, occurring in extreme events with heavy flooding. Economic losses would be incalculable. More and more of the Midwest would be a dust bowl. California's Central Valley could no longer be irrigated. Food prices would rise to unprecedented levels.
If this sounds apocalyptic, it is. This is why we need to reduce emissions dramatically. President Obama has the power not only to deny tar sands oil additional access to Gulf Coast refining, which Canada desires in part for export markets, but also to encourage economic incentives to leave tar sands and other dirty fuels in the ground.
The global warming signal is now louder than the noise of random weather, as I predicted would happen by now in the journal Science in 1981. Extremely hot summers have increased noticeably. We can say with high confidence that the recent heat waves in Texas and Russia, and the one in Europe in 2003, which killed tens of thousands, were not natural events -- they were caused by human-induced climate change.
We have known since the 1800s that carbon dioxide traps heat in the atmosphere. The right amount keeps the climate conducive to human life. But add too much, as we are doing now, and temperatures will inevitably rise too high. This is not the result of natural variability, as some argue. The earth is currently in the part of its long-term orbit cycle where temperatures would normally be cooling. But they are rising -- and it's because we are forcing them higher with fossil fuel emissions.
The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has risen from 280 parts per million to 393 p.p.m. over the last 150 years. The tar sands contain enough carbon -- 240 gigatons -- to add 120 p.p.m. Tar shale, a close cousin of tar sands found mainly in the United States, contains at least an additional 300 gigatons of carbon. If we turn to these dirtiest of fuels, instead of finding ways to phase out our addiction to fossil fuels, there is no hope of keeping carbon concentrations below 500 p.p.m. -- a level that would, as earth's history shows, leave our children a climate system that is out of their control.
We need to start reducing emissions significantly, not create new ways to increase them. We should impose a gradually rising carbon fee, collected from fossil fuel companies, then distribute 100 percent of the collections to all Americans on a per-capita basis every month. The government would not get a penny. This market-based approach would stimulate innovation, jobs and economic growth, avoid enlarging government or having it pick winners or losers. Most Americans, except the heaviest energy users, would get more back than they paid in increased prices. Not only that, the reduction in oil use resulting from the carbon price would be nearly six times as great as the oil supply from the proposed pipeline from Canada, rendering the pipeline superfluous, according to economic models driven by a slowly rising carbon price.
But instead of placing a rising fee on carbon emissions to make fossil fuels pay their true costs, leveling the energy playing field, the world's governments are forcing the public to subsidize fossil fuels with hundreds of billions of dollars per year. This encourages a frantic stampede to extract every fossil fuel through mountaintop removal, longwall mining, hydraulic fracturing, tar sands and tar shale extraction, and deep ocean and Arctic drilling.
President Obama speaks of a ''planet in peril,'' but he does not provide the leadership needed to change the world's course. Our leaders must speak candidly to the public -- which yearns for open, honest discussion -- explaining that our continued technological leadership and economic well-being demand a reasoned change of our energy course. History has shown that the American public can rise to the challenge, but leadership is essential.
The science of the situation is clear -- it's time for the politics to follow. This is a plan that can unify conservatives and liberals, environmentalists and business. Every major national science academy in the world has reported that global warming is real, caused mostly by humans, and requires urgent action. The cost of acting goes far higher the longer we wait -- we can't wait any longer to avoid the worst and be judged immoral by coming generations.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHNNY SELMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); OIL SANDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMISSIONS (79%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (74%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (74%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); DROUGHT (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); FOOD PRICES (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



386 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Europe May Need More Power to Deal With Bank Crisis

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE; Raphael Minder contributed reporting from Madrid.

 BODY:
LONDON -- After several failed efforts to restore confidence in their sickly banks, European governments face growing pressure to change course and give the European Union more power to shore up the region's shakier lenders.
Calls for a reassessment of current policy have been prompted by a new crisis in Spain, where the government late Wednesday took a controlling stake in Bankia, the country's third-largest bank by assets, just as it confronted the country's second recession in three years and continuing pressure from hostile bond markets.
But the growing clamor for action has raised a familiar issue: are national governments ready to surrender more power to the European Union or its agencies to salvage the euro? 
Some of the main players now say openly that they should. Last month, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund and a former French finance minister, called for a policy change so that the euro zone's new bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, could lend directly to struggling banks rather than solely to national governments.
''What we are advocating is that this be done without channeling through the sovereigns,'' Ms. Lagarde said. Such a step might allow Spanish banks to tap money from the European Union, rather than the government being forced to accept aid, which might look to many observers like an international bailout.
The vice president of the European Central Bank, Vitor Constancio, went further than Ms. Lagarde, arguing that the euro zone now needs its own bank supervisor and a fund to shore up -- or wind down -- troubled banks of the 17 European Union countries that use the euro.
The debate is central to the future of the European economy. While the bond market has traditionally been the main source of financing for companies in the United States, businesses on the Continent tend to rely on a patchwork of commercial lenders. The reluctance of weak banks to extend credit to corporations has helped to keep some European economies trapped in a downward spiral.
One of those economies is in Spain, where, after an enormous construction boom and bust, banks have struggled under a mounting burden of bad debt. Financial institutions have accumulated 323 billion euros ($418 billion) in real estate assets, of which 175 billion euros was labeled ''problematic'' by the Bank of Spain last year.
The government in Madrid is facing its fourth attempt in three years to restore confidence in the banking sector. One step is to rescue Bankia, the country's largest real estate lender, which is sitting on 32 billion euros of troubled assets. In a statement issued late Wednesday, the Spanish central bank said the government would take control of Bankia's parent company, BFA, by converting into equity a 4.5 billion euro loan it had given the financial group.
It added that the provision of public funds was being considered ''to expedite the cleanup.''
The government is expected to go much further and order Spanish banks to set aside billions of euros more of provisions for bad loans, in addition to the 50 billion euros that the economy minister, Luis de Guindos, demanded in February. So far, the banks have set aside provisions for only about a third of the troubled assets they hold.
The government is also likely to outline a plan to allow banks to transfer their most impaired assets to government-guaranteed asset-management companies, mirroring the steps Ireland took in late 2009.
Clemens Fuest, research director of the Oxford University Center for Business Taxation, said that the weakness of Spain's banks had a direct effect on the national finances because the government would have to finance any bailouts.
''These two problems are mutually reinforcing,'' he said. ''The national banking system is dragging down the government and vice versa.''
By contrast, Mr. Fuest argued, ''California's state finance crisis is not a serious problem for the 'dollar zone' because Californian banks don't depend so much on the Californian state.''
Mr. Fuest is one of several academics who advocate the imposition of full-scale banking regulation at the European Union level and the creation of a banking resolution fund for the region.
In drafts of a forthcoming policy paper for the Center for European Policy Studies, Dirk Schoenmaker and Daniel Gros suggest that the European Banking Authority, which went into operation last year and brings together European Union and national banking supervisors, should be given the task of directly supervising cross-border banks. The European Central Bank should operate as lender of last resort for the region's banking system and a European Deposit Insurance and Resolution Fund should be created, the draft paper says.
Britain, which has not adopted the euro, would most likely resist any such plan. Last week it battled with other European Union nations over its right to set higher capital requirements than those sought by the European Commission, the executive arm of the 27-nation bloc.
Britain argues that when banks fail, it is national taxpayers who pick up the check, so national regulators should have the power to set whatever capital requirements they see fit. As Mervyn A. King, the governor of the Bank of England, once said, ''Global banks are global in life, but national in death.''
But the current system of European banking regulation, with its reliance on coordination among national supervisors, has so far failed to restore confidence in the financial sector. European bank stress tests in 2010 and 2011 were not considered credible because they did not highlight the looming problems in Ireland and Spain.
New structures have been created, including the European Banking Authority, although its powers are limited. The agency describes itself as ''a hub and spoke network'' of E.U. and national bodies that is intended to guarantee the stability of the European banking system.
The E.B.A has imposed a deadline of the end of next month for 28 larger banks, where shortfalls in balance sheets were identified late last year, to hold as a capital cushion a minimum of 9 percent of their assets.
At the same time, Michel Barnier, the European Commission member responsible for financial regulation, has said he will soon publish proposals for an E.U. framework on bank recovery and resolution. For those banks that operate across borders, this system would rely on coordination among national authorities.
Yet ideas for further-reaching integration within the euro zone are gathering pace and, according to Mr. Fuest, the stakes for the euro are high.
''If there is no willingness to give up national sovereignty in some key areas, maybe the currency doesn't have a future,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EURO (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); BONDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%)

COMPANY: BANKIA SA (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: BKIA (MCE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (85%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



387 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Obama Endorses Same-Sex Marriage, Taking Stand On Charged Social Issue

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and PETER BAKER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Before President Obama left the White House on Tuesday morning to fly to an event in Albany, several aides intercepted him in the Oval Office. Within minutes it was decided: the president would endorse same-sex marriage on Wednesday, completing a wrenching personal transformation on the issue.
As described by several aides, that quick decision and his subsequent announcement in a hastily scheduled network television interview were thrust on the White House by 48 hours of frenzied will-he-or-won't-he speculation after Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. all but forced the president's hand by embracing the idea of same-sex unions in a Sunday talk show interview.
Advisers say now that Mr. Obama had intended since early this year to define his position sometime before Democrats nominate him for re-election in September. Yet many of the president's allies believed he would not do so, trusting instead in his strong support from gay voters for having ended a ban on openly gay people in the military and disavowing a federal law defining marriage as between a man and a woman. 
Such caution was understandable, the allies said, given the unpredictable fallout the president would face by taking a clear stand on one of the most contentious and politically charged social issues of the day, before what is likely to be a close election. Mr. Obama's closest advisers say only the timing was in question. Mr. Biden's unexpected remarks undoubtedly accelerated the timetable.
Initially Mr. Obama and his aides expected that the moment would be Monday, when the president was scheduled to be on ''The View,'' the ABC daytime talk show, which is popular with women. Certainly, they thought, he would be asked his position on same-sex marriage by one of the show's hosts, who include Barbara Walters and Whoopi Goldberg.
Yet the pressure had become too great to wait until then, his aides told him; on Monday, the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, was pummeled with questions from skeptical reporters about Mr. Obama's stance. After the Tuesday morning meeting, Dan Pfeiffer, the president's communications director, contacted ABC and offered a wide-ranging interview with the president for the following day.
And so it was that Mr. Obama on Wednesday afternoon sat down in the White House with ABC's Robin Roberts and made news, after nearly two years of saying that his views on same-sex marriage were ''evolving.''
''At a certain point, I've just concluded that for me personally it is important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same-sex couples should be able to get married,'' Mr. Obama said.
Long a proponent of civil unions, Mr. Obama said his views had changed in part because of prodding by friends who are gay and by conversations with his wife and daughters.
''I had hesitated on gay marriage in part because I thought that civil unions would be sufficient,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I was sensitive to the fact that for a lot of people, the word marriage was something that invokes very powerful traditions and religious beliefs.''
Mr. Obama also invoked his Christian faith in explaining his decision.
''The thing at root that we think about is, not only Christ sacrificing himself on our behalf, but it's also the golden rule -- you know, treat others the way you would want to be treated,'' he said. ''And I think that's what we try to impart to our kids, and that's what motivates me as president.''
Reaction to Mr. Obama's announcement was largely predictable -- including immediate opposition from his presumptive Republican rival, Mitt Romney -- yet people on both sides of the issue pointed to the historical significance of a president endorsing marriage between people of the same sex. It was a Democrat, Bill Clinton, who signed the Defense of Marriage Act, defining marriage as between a man and a woman, which the Obama administration last year decided not to enforce in the courts.
While Mr. Obama's announcement was significant from a symbolic standpoint, more important as a practical matter were Mr. Obama's decision not to enforce the marriage act and his successful push in 2010 to repeal the ''don't ask, don't tell'' law that prohibited openly gay men and lesbians from serving in the military. For that reason, gay rights groups had been largely enthusiastic about his re-election campaign while being pragmatically resigned to his not publicly supporting same-sex marriage before the election.
Mr. Obama's announcement has little substantive impact -- as an aide said, ''It's not like we're trying to pass legislation.''
But the political impact is a wild card, even Obama advisers acknowledged, and it came one day after voters in North Carolina -- the site of the Democratic Party's nominating convention -- supported a ban on same-sex marriage. But while the president has now injected a volatile social issue into the campaign debate, both sides say the election still is all but certain to turn on the economy.
Public support for same-sex marriage is growing at a pace that surprises even pollsters as older generations of voters who tend to be strongly opposed are supplanted by younger ones who are just as strongly in favor. Same-sex couples are featured in some of the most popular shows on television.
Yet opponents include white working-class voters, among whom Mr. Obama has long had weak support, and many African-Americans, led by influential ministers in their churches, whose support is critical to Mr. Obama in swing states like Virginia and North Carolina. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, one of the first openly gay members of Congress, said he told the White House months ago that it should not worry about the politics.
''This country is moving, and what's interesting is every time somebody does something that's supportive of our rights, it turns out to be (a) popular and (b) not very controversial,'' he said in a telephone interview.
Many Americans already assumed Mr. Obama supported same-sex marriage, Mr. Frank said, adding, ''Politically, it's kind of a nonevent.''
Obama strategists had rejected the idea of announcing the president's support during a fund-raiser or at a speech to a gay rights group, because, as one Democrat close to the White House put it, that would ''look like pandering.''
Then last Friday, Mr. Biden taped his interview for NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' shown on Sunday morning. Afterward, Mr. Biden's aides circulated a transcript around the West Wing, with the gay marriage remarks highlighted in yellow. A flurry of e-mails ensued about how Mr. Biden's office should explain it once the interview was broadcast.
The news media attention escalated on Monday when Mr. Obama's education secretary, Arne Duncan, acknowledged in a television interview that he also supported same-sex marriage. Editorialists, columnists and bloggers criticized Mr. Obama as appearing calculating by his continued ambivalence.
An administration official, who like others did not want to be named discussing internal White House deliberations, said that until this week, the one certainty was for Mr. Obama to take his stand before September to avoid a convention fight. ''It's not helpful to go down there and have a big conflagration about including this in the platform,'' the official said.
But several events loomed that would also force attention on the issue, leaving Mr. Obama vulnerable to continued criticism.
On Thursday, Mr. Obama is to visit the Los Angeles home of the actor George Clooney for a campaign fund-raiser expected to raise about $12 million, much of it from Hollywood people active in the gay rights cause.
Mr. Obama is scheduled to give the commencement address next week at Barnard College in New York City, where he will receive a medal along with Evan Wolfson, the founder and president of Freedom to Marry, a leading advocate for same-sex unions. Mr. Wolfson, who had written that he would ''whisper in the president's ear'' to support same-sex marriage, said in an interview on Wednesday, ''I'm going to shout, 'Thank you!' ''
Also on Monday, Mr. Obama is to speak at a campaign fund-raiser for gay rights supporters. And on June 6, he is to return to Los Angeles to speak at a gala benefiting the gay, bisexual and transgender community.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about President Obama's decision to declare his support for same-sex marriage described incorrectly in some editions a transcript circulated within the White House of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s earlier remarks on the subject. The transcript, of a taping on Friday for broadcast on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, had the vice president's remarks on gay marriage highlighted in yellow. It was not the case, as a White House official said, that the vice president's office did not call the comments to anyone's attention.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrons at Hartigan's Irish Pub in Charlotte, N.C., watched as President Obama discussed same-sex marriage on ABC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN W. ADKISSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Seven of nine states expected to be close in the presidential election have laws or provisions that prohibit same-sex marriage. (A1)
Same-Sex Marriage Banned in Most Swing States: Seven of nine states expected to be close in the presidential election have laws or constitutional provisions that prohibit same-sex marriage. Most of those laws were passed through ballot measures. (Sources: National Conference of State Legislatures
state elections results
Muhlenberg College/Morning Call
Quinnipiac University Poll
Des Moines Register Iowa Poll
University of New Hampshire Granite State Poll)
 President Obama: 16 Years on Same-Sex Marriage (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (59%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BARBARA WALTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012



388 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: F.T.C. and White House Push for Online Privacy Laws

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Tanzina Vega contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration and the nation's chief privacy regulator pressed Congress on Wednesday to enact online privacy legislation, saying new laws would level the playing field between companies that already had privacy policies and those that lacked them, and thus escape regulatory oversight.
Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, which enforces limited Internet privacy laws, and Cameron F. Kerry, general counsel for the Commerce Department, said at a hearing of the Senate commerce committee that writing new laws and giving the F.T.C. the power to enforce them with civil penalties would promote Internet commerce by increasing the trust that Americans put in online transactions. 
Currently, the F.T.C. monitors whether Internet companies that have privacy policies keep their promises to consumers about when and where they will share personal information. But the commission lacks the authority to assess penalties for most transgressions, and it has little authority over how companies operate when they have no written privacy rules.
''Granting direct enforcement authority to the F.T.C. would enable the commission to take action against outliers and bad actors even if their actions do not violate a published privacy policy,'' Mr. Kerry said, according to written testimony released at the beginning of the hearing.
The F.T.C. recently accused Google, Facebook and Myspace of breaching promises about what consumer information they would keep secret or when they would share it with advertisers. While those companies face possible fines for further privacy violations, they were not financially penalized for the original incidents.
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, the West Virginia Democrat who heads the committee, also expressed his support for ''strong consumer-focused privacy legislation this year,'' according to prepared remarks.
And he cast doubt on proposals for industry self-regulation. ''Sometimes industry self regulation efforts do not end up protecting consumers,'' Mr. Rockefeller said. ''In my experience, corporations are unlikely to regulate themselves out of profits.''
Both Senator John F. Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat, and Cameron Kerry, his brother, said it was important for the United States to establish its own privacy standard and not let European regulators dictate the industry standard.
Some Republican members of the Senate and the House have supported some privacy measures, while others have warned that strict new regulations could lead to an overexpansion of government red tape, inhibiting economic growth.
Senator Patrick J. Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, said at the hearing that he does not believe there is a demonstrated need for new privacy laws. ''It's premature to begin discussing specific legislative fixes,'' he said, ''when we don't fully know whether the problem exists.''
Privacy concerns have come to the fore as consumers grow increasingly aware of just how closely their actions online are tracked. Individual Web sites or e-mail programs can follow users long after they leave a particular page on the Web, and in many cases use that information to display specific ads to the user. Sometimes, companies also sell the information to third parties.
Reflecting heightened consumer objections, the White House and the F.T.C. each produced privacy reports and recommendations this year calling for varying degrees of industry self-regulation and statutes. The White House has put forward what it calls a Privacy Bill of Rights to provide basic online protection guarantees.
Mr. Leibowitz, the F.T.C. chairman, said he was against the creation of a centralized database of Internet users who request not to be tracked, as has been done with ''Do Not Call'' telephone lists. That could cause privacy concerns itself, he said.
While praising the efforts of retailing, advertising and technology companies to establish a ''Do Not Track'' mechanism, he also called on the industries to do more than simply block targeted ads. They should also address the collection of information by Web sites for other purposes, he said.
''While much work remains to be done on Do Not Track,'' Mr. Leibowitz said, ''the commission believes that the developments to date, coupled with legislative proposals, provide the impetus'' toward useful methods of protecting privacy.
Mr. Leibowitz said he expects that ''by the end of the year there's going to be meaningful Do Not Track for American consumers so they can opt out of third-party advertisements.''
The F.T.C. also repeated its call for regulation of data brokers, companies that resell databases of personal information. Such oversight would allow consumers to see and correct the information that those companies have gathered.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Leibowitz, the Federal Trade Commission chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET PRIVACY (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (74%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); PAT TOOMEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



389 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Clashing Realities in a 'City of Champions'

BYLINE: ZARA KATZ


HIGHLIGHT: Mary Beth Meehan's photography project compels residents of a Massachusetts town to confront racial and economic tensions. 

 BODY:
There are two realities depicted in the photographs on the side of the Messiah Baptist Church in Brockton, Mass. One is of an old white man entering a backyard pool party for the Martel family on the Fourth of July (). The other is of a young black woman wearing a bandanna on her head, midriff exposed, cigars tucked into her pants ().
The images are part of a project by Mary Beth Meehan, "City of Champions," which looks at the evolving dynamic when one immigrant group replaces another in Brockton, her hometown. The project is about the division between whites and blacks and about the psychology of post-industrial America.
"These immigrants were very much the parallel of the Western European immigrants of 100 years ago," Ms. Meehan said of the changing demographics. "But the economic underpinnings were so different that the landscape that they were residing on had completely changed."
With a grant from the Massachusetts Foundation for the Humanities, Ms. Meehan worked with the city of Brockton to hang 12 large-scale vinyl images on public buildings downtown.
The day before the images went up, the secretary of the Messiah Baptist Church called Ms. Meehan and told her that there was an issue with one of them. Ms. Meehan was sure that it was the image of the black woman, who might be viewed in the wrong light, as a gangster or drug dealer. But the secretary told her that the pastor and predominantly black congregation were not happy with the image of the white pool party.
Ms. Meehan was confused. That was the image that City Hall had wanted.
The secretary told Ms. Meehan that the pastor, a progressive, believed that the flag in the image was a "symbol of false hope." He saw the image as a representation of white nostalgia for old Brockton. He said that image was getting in the way of progress. The image of the black woman was the reality that Brockton needed to embrace.
The photographer and the church held a forum to come to an understanding about the images. In the end, the pastor and the congregation agreed to have both pictures stay up.
Once known for its shoe factories, Brockton is sometimes referred to as the "City of Champions" because of the boxers Rocky Marciano and Marvin Hagler, native sons. Until about 20 years ago, the city, about half an hour's drive south of Boston, was populated mainly by Irish and Italian immigrants. In the '80s, immigrants from Haiti, Cape Verde and Latin America started to flood in, and the white population began to move out.
Ms. Meehan was born in Brockton in 1967 and lived there until 1985, when she left for college. The narrative that she heard growing up was, "The blacks are ruining my city."
As an adult, Ms. Meehan wanted to understand if there was truth to these ugly racial statements, or if the downturn of the economy was the real culprit in the city's demise.
In photographing the residents of Brockton, Ms. Meehan did see a distinct separation between white and black people in the city, but came to realize that the real issue was the economic situation. And blacks and Latinos were being blamed for that.
To Ms. Meehan, this is a national story, not just a local one.
"All of these states had these powerful industrial engines and are now coping with the lowering price of housing stock and immigrants coming in," Ms. Meehan said. "It feels like a real identity crisis to me."
The 12 large-scale photographs are on display until September. Ms. Meehan holds walking tours to discuss the images and the situation in Brockton.
While she doesn't claim that attitudes have changed in Brockton, Ms. Meehan believes that connections have been opened, and understanding has blossomed, between the older white neighborhoods and the newer black ones.
"I do think that some of these people have seen the links of their ancestors to the newcomers," she said. "But the cultural divide is so hard."

        
Life on Both Sides of the Border
        
Growing Up Lost in Appalachia
        
It's Not About Winning the Game
        
Places Without Power (of Any Sort)
        
A Mirror on Growing Up in America

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); ETHNICITY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); FOOTWEAR MFG (50%) American scenes; Brockton; Immigration; Mary Beth Meehan; Massachusetts; Zara Katz; Immigration and Emigration; Photography; Race and Ethnicity; Boston (Mass); Showcase

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



390 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2138 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Despite Industry's Woes, Hedge Fund Titans Appear Calm at Conference | The hedge fund industry may be facing a storm of regulatory concerns, weak performance and government inquiries. But the industry's titans appeared relatively relaxed at the Bellagio hotel in Las Vegas, the scene of the 2012 SALT Conference.
Hosted by SkyBridge Capital, the conference brought together investors and other financial professionals to discuss topics like the crisis in Europe, market volatility and the outlook for the industry.
Philip A. Falcone, for one, didn't betray even a hint of the storm raging over LightSquared, the start-up wireless company that was dealt a major blow when the government decided to block its effort to build land-based satellites. The chief of Harbinger Capital Partners sat on stage with legs crossed, the very image of relaxation, DealBook's Azam Ahmed reports. The subject of LightSquared emerged once, obliquely, when Mr. Falcone referred to a policy change that had created an investing challenge.
Paul Singer, the founder of the $20 billion hedge fund Elliott Management, opted to dispense advice for investors rather than discuss his aggressive missives to the likes of President Obama and the Federal Reserve. Maintaining a certain humility about one's abilities, he said, was crucial.
But Mr. Singer also addressed a subject on many investors' minds: whether returns fall as hedge funds grow larger. He said the answer to that question has changed over the years but that size was probably helpful, adding that "supply has grown so far past Elliott's size."
PHILIP FALCONE | PAUL SINGER
DEAL NOTES
In Spain, a Crisis in Corporate Debt | While investors have been anxiously selling Spanish government bonds, it is heavily indebted Spanish corporations, like the construction giant Grupo A.C.S., that economists now say darken the country's prospects for growth, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Bernanke Gets a Thumbs Up in Survey | Three out of four respondents in the latest Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders gave a positive assessment of the Federal Reserve chairman, expecting him to take more action this year to stimulate the economy.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
For Upward Mobility, Come to New York | New Jersey or Maryland would work, too. According to a new study, those three states are best at helping Americans increase their income, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
HSBC in Talks to Sell Latin American Units | The British bank is assessing the potential sale of its units in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay and Paraguay, the latest effort by HSBC to focus on a smaller number of core markets.
DealBook 
Micron Technology in Deal Discussions With Elpida Memory | The semiconductor company Micron Technology said on Thursday that is was in discussions with the Japanese chip manufacturer Elpida Memory to acquire the struggling Asian rival. The American company did not provide a price for the potential takeover, which would help Micron to expand its presence in the global semiconductor industry.
DealBook 
Fed Approves I.C.B.C.'s Takeover of Bank of East Asia | The Federal Reserve opened the door for China's biggest bank to establish a presence in the United States on Wednesday, allowing the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China to buy an American institution.
DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Is an Investor in KPN | A regulatory filing showed Morgan Stanley had the equivalent of 10.01 percent in KPN, the former Dutch telephone monopoly that has attracted the interest of Carlos Slim Hel's Amrica Mvil, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Bank of America Shareholders Approve Chief's Pay | Shareholders protested loudly during Bank of America's annual meeting on Wednesday in Charlotte, N.C., but when it came to voting on compensation, the company said 92 percent of investors signed off on a $7 million 2011 pay package for the chief executive, Brian T. Moynihan, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
In London, Bonuses Expected to Fall Again | London's financial workers can expect their bonuses to be cut in half this year, falling to the lowest level in more than a decade, according to a study by the Centre for Economics and Business Research, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Morgan Stanley and Barclays Said to Win UBS Assets | The two banks submitted winning bids for the $1.5 billion of collateralized debt obligations being sold by UBS, Dow Jones reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the bidding.
DOW JONES | IFR
Cantor Fitzgerald Bets on Vegas | Cantor Fitzgerald, the brokerage firm led by Howard W. Lutnick, is trying to become a leader in sports gambling, with big plans for Las Vegas, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports.
BLOOMBERG MARKETS
Spain Is Seen as Underestimating Potential Bank Losses | Spain's government has asked lenders to increase provisions against losses by an amount that some research analysts said would not be enough to cover the full spectrum of risky loans, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Deutsche Bank Keeps Currency Trading Crown | The German lender was the top trader of foreign currencies for the eighth straight year, even as it lost market share and Citigroup advanced in the ranks, according to an annual survey, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Calpers to Invest $500 Million With Blackstone | The largest public pension fund in the United States plans to commit $500 million to a separate account managed by the Blackstone Group, Reuters reports, citing details provided by the pension fund.
REUTERS
China Fund Steers Clear of European Sovereign Debt | The China Investment Corporation, that country's sovereign wealth fund, said concerns about Europe's debt crisis had led it to stop buying those government bonds, but also said it would continue to look for other investments in Europe, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Capital International Raises Fund for Emerging Markets | Capital International has attracted $3 billion for a private equity fund to take minority stakes in emerging companies, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Schulze Global Plans a Fund for Ethiopia | Schulze Global Investments, based in Beijing, plans to raise a $100 million private equity fund to invest in Ethiopian companies, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
AOL Moves to Appease Starboard | The Internet company agreed to many of the demands of the activist fund Starboard Value, saying it would look to nominate two independent directors and return to shareholders all the proceeds from its recent patent sale, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Zoe Cruz Said to Shutter Hedge Fund | Zoe Cruz, the former Morgan Stanley co-president, plans to return money to investors in her $200 million hedge fund, Voras Capital Management, after it lost 8 percent last year, an unidentified person with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Third Point Calls for Interim C.E.O. at Yahoo | Yahoo's latest efforts to contain the controversy surrounding the embellished credentials of its chief executive do not seem to impress Daniel S. Loeb.
DealBook  | DealBook: Yahoo Tries to Address Error on Chief's Degree
S.A.C. Capital Reveals a Stake in Medical Debt Collector | Shares of Accretive Health, the medical debt-collection company that has been accused of using overly aggressive tactics, rose more than 19 percent on Wednesday when S.A.C. Capital Advisors said it had a 3.8 percent stake in the company, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
A Circle of Tech, Fueled by Facebook | Several early employees of Facebook, who have since left the company, have gone on to found new start-ups or finance their friends' projects. The New York Times reports: "This is the story line of Silicon Valley, from Apple to Netscape to PayPal and now, to Facebook. Every public offering creates a new circle of tech magnates with money to invest. This one, though, with a jaw-dropping $100 billion valuation, will create a far richer fraternity."
NEW YORK TIMES
Facebook Tries to Manage Expectations About Mobile | In the sixth amendment to its I.P.O. prospectus, Facebook said on Wednesday that it did not "currently directly generate any meaningful revenue" from mobile devices, adding that if the company could not monetize mobile in the future, its revenue growth could be harmed, the Bits blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Facebook Unveils a Paid App Store | The company plans to open its new App Center in the next few weeks, as it looks to expand its sources of revenue, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Carlyle Falls Below I.P.O. Price | Shares of the Carlyle Group closed Wednesday's trading at $21.75, after debuting last week at $22. The private equity firm had tried to encourage shares to rise by pricing the offering at a discount, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
New Enterprise Associates Raises a $2.1 Billion Fund | The venture capital firm, which has counted Groupon among its investments, said in a regulatory filing that it plans to raise even more for its latest fund, up to $2.56 billion, amid what was said to be strong investor demand, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
New York Gaining Ground as a Tech Hub | Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg would be pleased. A new study by the Center for an Urban Future found that the technology industry in New York is growing faster than anywhere else in the nation, with the number of venture capital deals rising by 32 percent form 2007 to 2011, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Etsy Attracts $40 Million to Expand Abroad | Etsy, the online marketplace for quirky goods, raised a $40 million Series F round of financing from investors including Index Ventures, Accel Partners and Union Square Ventures, the Bits blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES BITS
White House and F.T.C. Call for Privacy Laws | Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, told a Senate committee on Wednesday that new laws to enforce online privacy with civil penalties would promote commerce online, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Volcker Defends a Rule Bearing His Name | Paul A. Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee that the influence of a ban on proprietary trading went "far beyond the particular risks" and that it also addressed "a cultural issue" on Wall Street.
DealBook 
Europe May Need More Power to Deal With Bank Crisis | After several failed efforts to restore confidence in their struggling banks, European governments face growing pressure to change course and give the European Union more power to shore up the region's shakier lenders. Calls for a reassessment of current policy have been prompted by a new crisis in Spain, where the government took a controlling stake in Bankia, the country's third-largest bank by assets, on Wednesday, Stephen Castle reports in The New York Times.
DealBook 
Dewey's Jeffrey Kessler Heading to Winston & Strawn | Jeffrey Kessler, who headed Dewey & LeBoeuf's litigation department and is a top sports-industry lawyer, is departing for Winston & Strawn.
DealBook 
Consumer Agency to Propose Limits on Mortgage Fees | The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said it planned to propose tighter rules for mortgage lending, including a ban on charging origination fees that vary with the size of the loan, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Regulator Outlines a Bank Crisis Plan | The Wall Street Journal reports on a planned announcement by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation: "When the next crisis brings a major financial firm to its knees, U.S. regulators will seize the parent company but allow its units around the globe to keep operating while the mess is cleaned up."
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fannie Mae Seeks No Additional Bailout Money | The mortgage finance giant reported net income of $2.7 billion in the first quarter, compared with a $6.5 billion loss in the first quarter of 2011, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Residential Capital Said to Approach a Bankruptcy Filing | The board of Residential Capital, the mortgage unit of Ally Financial, is expected to meet on Sunday to authorize a bankruptcy filing, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
S.E.C. Examines Accounting of a Client of Deloitte in China | The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into suspected accounting fraud at a Chinese client of the Shanghai affiliate of Deloitte, and has filed an administrative action against the accounting firm, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (83%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); BONDS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (63%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: LIGHTSQUARED INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); ELPIDA MEMORY INC (50%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (50%)

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (50%)

PERSON: PHILIP FALCONE (79%); BEN BERNANKE (55%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) NEVADA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); PERU (79%); URUGUAY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



391 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: An Online Tool For Gauging the Relative Value of Efficient Cars

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A student team produces a handy online tool allowing car buyers to compare the full costs and benefits of cars. 

 BODY:
Regular readers know I'm a big fan of university courses in which students not only learn by doing, but also contribute to sustainable human advancement through their learning. I've seen great examples at RensselaerPolytechnicInstitute, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Duke University, Pace University (of course!) and now the University of California, Santa Barbara. 
Earlier this month, I taught a five-day mini-course in climate and communication at that university's Bren School of Environmental Science and Management and met dozens of engaged students, including Kate Ziemba (@kateziem on Twitter). She's one of the creators of a new Clean Car Calculator Web site offering consumers a tool for comparing the costs and benefits of car models. Here's her Your Dot post describing the project: 
A recent report by the EDF highlights the nation's current reluctance to invest capital toward efficiency projects. It cites information barriers as primary limiters. Similarly, a recent post in The New York Times questions the value of purchasing fuel-efficient cars. A project led by graduate students at the Bren School of Environmental Science and Management at the University of California, Santa Barbara with support from the Institute for Energy Efficiency untangles the real cost of purchasing a high efficiency vehicle.
High efficiency cars such as the Toyota Prius, Nissan Leaf, and Chevy Volt carry a higher upfront sticker price, but the Clean Car Calculator project allows consumers to evaluate the lifetime value of their purchases, both economically and environmentally, providing a break-even comparison between any pair of car models of their choosing.
The Clean Car Calculator is a streamlined, Web-based calculator that allows visitors to make adjustments for initial purchase price, future costs of gasoline, and individual driving styles (as it turns out, you drive can matter almost as much as you drive). Unlike other calculators, this tool calculates the net present value cost of ownership for any car, discounting future gas savings, and determines how long one must own a high efficiency vehicle for it to make economic sense via fuel savings.
The Calculator resulted from an assignment in the Energy and Resource Productivity class taught by Dr. Sangwon Suh at the Bren School that challenged students to understand the return on investment for businesses and consumers to implement energy saving technologies. Students compared lifetime costs and emissions of conventional gas versus high efficiency vehicles. The graduate student developers were surprised to find that hybrids not only paid themselves back in fuel savings, but also that newly released vehicles, such as the Volt and the Leaf, were smart purchases even without a government subsidy.

        
Fostering Education for Innovation (and Vice Versa)
        
A Young Green Innovator Turning Fungi into Jobs Muses on the Path to Breakthroughs
        
Obama Pushes for Investing in Young, Inquiring Minds
        
Building a 'Knowosphere,' One Cable and Campus at a Time
        
Students Press Congress to Sustain Investment in Science

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); HYBRID VEHICLES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (74%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) cars; Education; efficiency; generation e; hybrid; innovation; web; Automobiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Energy Efficiency; Fuel Efficiency; Duke University; Massachusetts Institute of Technology; University of California, Santa Barbara; Climate Change; energy; Transportation; Youth

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%) Duke University; Massachusetts Institute of Technology; University of California, Santa Barbara

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



392 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Doubling of Stafford Interest Rates May Cost Only $6 More a Month

BYLINE: TANYA CALDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Two financial aid experts argue that there are more pressing issues regarding student loan debt than whether to double the interest rate of Stafford loans. 

 BODY:
The Senate may have failed to act on a bill that would have prevented the doubling of interest rates for some student loans, but the inaction may not matter much. According to two experts on financial aid, if the interest rate on Stafford loans doubles to 6.8 percent this summer, as scheduled, students would pay only about $6 more a month for one year of loans.
What's more, Mark Kantrowitz and Lynn O'Shaughnessy write in an Op-Ed essay in The Times, the rate increase won't affect previous loans, only new loans borrowed for the 2012-13 school year.
Here is an excerpt from their analysis:
The proposals that Congress has been debating would extend the 3.4 percent interest rate for only one year. If a student borrowed the average subsidized Stafford loan ($3,357) at 6.8 percent for the next school year, the higher interest rate would boost the borrower's debt burden by $761 over a 10-year repayment period. Even if the interest rate doubles, the monthly payment on the subsidized Stafford loan would increase by only about one-sixth.
What few observers seem to appreciate is that the low rate of 3.4 percent took effect only last July. As recently as 2007, the rate was 6.8 percent. The Democrats made reducing the interest rate on student loans into a winning campaign issue in 2006 and they fulfilled their campaign promise by ushering through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, which gradually reduced the subsidized Stafford rate over a four-year period.
Congress often passes this sort of legislation with a 5- or 10-year window, so it's reasonable to ask whether this political battle was anticipated by Congressional Democrats, who knew they would gain political brownie points if the Republicans, in the months preceding a presidential election, balked at extending the low rate. (Each party has added conditions to the rate extension that are unacceptable to the other side. Republicans want to pay for a one-year extension on the lower Stafford rate by taking $6 billion out of the preventive health care fund established by the 2010 health care legislation; Democrats want to cover the tab by cutting oil subsidies and closing a corporate tax loophole.)
Mr. Kantrowitz and Ms. O'Shaughnessy go on to argue that families with college students have higher priorities than whether Stafford interest rates should double, like the new rules that make it tougher to qualify for Pell grants; "why the interest rates on other federal college loans remain so high even though interest rates are at historic lows"; and the fact that student loans, unlike other loans, cannot be discharged in bankruptcy.

        
Part 1: Answers to Your Questions on Scholarships and Student Loans
        
Part 2: Answers to Readers' Questions on Financial Aid
        
Many Parents Are Financially Supporting Adult Children After College, Study Finds
        
Part 5: Answers to Readers' Questions on Financial Aid
        
Politicians Find a Way to Agree, and Disagree, on Student Loan Rates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (95%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PARENTS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); POLITICS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); FAMILY (65%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (63%) Paying Your Way; Stafford Loan; Student Loans; Kantrowitz, Mark; Financial Aid (Education); Interest Rates; Law and Legislation; United States Politics and Government; Senate; O'Shaughnessy, Lynn; Attention Counselors; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: Kantrowitz, Mark

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



393 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: More Families Report Having No Savings at All

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Fewer families expect to fall behind on their mortgage but more report having no liquid savings at all, University of Michigan research shows. 

 BODY:
New research from the University of Michigan finds that while the average savings rate has grown since 2008, the proportion of families who say they have no savings also has grown over the last two years.
In 2011, the report said, 23 percent of families said they had no liquid assets, like savings or checking accounts or certificates of deposit, compared with 19 percent in 2009.
Rushing to secure investments, including putting more money in low-risk savings vehicles, is a classic response to financial turmoil, said Frank Stafford, an economist at the university's Institute for Social Research and a co-author of the report. But not everyone is able to get ahead and add to their savings; only people with $50,000 in liquid assets, he said, have been really able to sock away more money. (The percentage of families with at least $50,000 in such asset classes increased to 15 percent, from 12 percent, the report found.)
"People who were precarious are in even worse shape," he said, "while people who are in good shape see the turmoil and decide to save more."
The report is based on the most recent findings of the long-running Panel Study of Income Dynamics, which interviews roughly 9,000 American families every two years. The latest report covers the years 2009 to 2011, and includes more than 8,121 families who were in the survey for both 2009 and 2011. (The margin of sampling error for a survey of that size is plus or minus one percentage point.)
The findings also suggest the housing crisis will continue but may be easing. In 2011, 5 percent of families with a mortgage said they were "very likely" or "somewhat likely" to fall behind on their payments in the coming year, compared with 6 percent who said so in 2009.
And in 2011, 2 percent of families who were homeowners reported falling behind on their mortgage payments - about the same proportion who said so in 2009.
Based on the results, the researchers estimate 2 percent of homeowners will be behind on payments by 2013. The report notes, however, that "The accuracy of these predictions will certainly depend on emerging economic and housing market conditions in the next two years."
How have your finances changed since 2009?

        
What the Fed's Move Means for Consumers
        
An Attempt to Clear Up Mortgage Application Confusion
        
New Rules Proposed for Mortgage Servicers
        
Borrowers, Beware of Mortgage Relief Fraud
        
Financial Watchdog Is Answering Questions Online

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING (63%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (63%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (60%) Mortgages; Savings Accounts

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



394 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Hypermiling Taylors Set Fuel-Economy Record in Volkswagen Passat TDI

BYLINE: TAMARA WARREN


HIGHLIGHT: The couple added another record to its considerable tally, driving 1,626.1 miles through nine southern states on a single tank of diesel fuel. 

 BODY:
John and Helen Taylor, the Australian hypermilers who made news in the United States in 2009 by averaging 67.9 miles per gallon in a tour of the 48 contiguous states, recently added another record to their considerable tally. The couple drove 1,626.1 miles in a 2012 Volkswagen Passat TDI SE from Houston to Sterling, Va., breaking the Guinness record for the longest drive in a passenger car on a single tank of diesel fuel.
They departed May 3 and passed through nine states, averaging 84.1 miles per gallon during the excursion, and finished on May 5. By Wednesday the Taylors were on a plane, en route to their home in Australia.
"We drove the Passat only two days prior to the record drive, and test results showed figures of 93, so we were very encouraged," Mr. Taylor wrote in an e-mail, referencing the miles per gallon he and his wife observed in pre-drive testing. "We believed we could reach Sterling Shell Station, Va., which we managed to achieve without running out of diesel."
Their record more than doubled the 795-mile highway range estimated for the Passat TDI by Volkswagen, based on a highway fuel-economy rating of 43 m.p.g. Volkswagen provided a showroom-stock Passat for the Taylors' record attempt.
The couple improved on the previous record, 1,526.6 miles, set in a 2010 Passat 1.6 BlueMotion diesel in Europe by Gavin Conway, a writer for The Sunday Times. Both cars had fuel capacity of 18.5 gallons and had 6-speed manual transmissions. The Taylors typically share driving duties, but on this trip Mr. Taylor drove slightly more, he said, while his wife monitored social media from the front passenger seat.
To simulate real-world driving conditions, the Taylors brought along 120 pounds of luggage and limited their driving to daylight hours. "We wanted the drive to be realistic, hence daylight driving and carrying holiday luggage, inspiring Americans to save on their upcoming summer driving holidays," Mr. Taylor said. Based on current diesel prices, the Taylors calculated their per-mile fuel cost at 4.65 cents.
"The hardest part of the drive was getting stuck in several long traffic jams, but we remained calm and worked through it," Mr. Taylor added. The couple shared some tricks for eking out gaudy fuel-economy numbers with The Times in 2009, after completing the 48-state tour in the Jetta TDI. Further tips can be found at the couple's Web site, FuelAcademy.com.
The Taylors have been setting fuel-economy records since 1982, having set or broken well over 40. Such dedication has earned them the unofficial title of the world's most fuel-efficient couple.
"We work always as a team to achieve not only driving goals but in our marriage," Mr. Taylor said. He views the road trips as an opportunity for cultural enrichment and marriage maintenance. On the road, he and his wife talk "about how we brought up the kids, how we can educate the world about efficiency, listening to music, learning German, telling my wife how much I love sharing these dream drives with her."
Their next record attempt is scheduled for September -- a drive around Australia.

        
Is the Toyota Camry Unfairly Vilified?
        
2012 Volkswagen Beetle TDI: Oil-Burning Bug to Have Debut at Chicago Auto Show
        
Reviewing the Volkswagen Passat
        
Home-Built Car Averages 113 Miles a Gallon
        
Touring 50 States, an Austin-Healey With Inspiration to Burn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); WRITERS (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (63%) diesel; Guinness; road trip; TDI; Volkswagen Passat; Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; United States; New Cars

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (88%); EUROPE (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012



395 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: WIC Works, But Enrollment Is Down

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: Families participating in WIC have better odds of good mental and physical health - but complex requirements and lack of outreach may mean fewer women participate. 

 BODY:
Economic hardship means families have to make tough choices among basic needs. Rent, mortgage, food, heat, health care - when what's coming in is far less than what needs to go out, parents are inevitably stressed. Both the economic needs and the impact on parents are associated with health problems for children - economic struggles, in particular, increase the risk that young children will suffer from delayed development and nutritional deficiencies, and living with a depressed caregiver additionally undermines their well-being. 
The Special Supplemental Nutritional Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) provides nutrient-rich foods and nutritional counseling to those who need it. Ideally, participation in the WIC program alleviates some of the economic and the emotional stress on parents. That, theorized a group of researchers from a variety of institutions (including the University of Maryland and Boston University Schools of Medicine), should mean healthier parents healthier children - and according to their research, reported in the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, it did.
Working with the Children's Health Watch to interview and examine data from over 26,000 caregiver-child pairs, Dr. Maureen Black and her colleagues found that parents in the WIC program were less likely to report depressive symptoms, even though the WIC program is not intended to address their mental health, and their children were more likely to meet the "well child" criteria set by the researchers. 
Children of WIC participants were also less likely to be overweight, suggesting that the food and counseling provided by WIC may be helping those families avoid less healthy (but usually cheap) alternatives. An older study found that preschoolers enrolled in the WIC program snacked less, and consumed less added sugar.
But enrollment in WIC programs is down nationwide, while food stamp use is at a record high. Only a part of that decrease can be attributed to a declining birth rate, says Pamela Prah, writing for the Pew Center on the States and Governing magazine. Women's advocates, she found, suspect that some women choose food stamps over WIC programs because the barriers to entry are higher for WIC: participants are required to see a health professional to discuss nutrition, and in most states must re-enroll every six months once the child is more than a year old. 
Food stamp benefits are more generous in many states, and are provided on an unobtrusive debit-like card. States have also been more active in reaching out to families in need of food stamps than to new mothers who might be helped by WIC, possibly because food stamps and WIC are financed differently: WIC is a discretionary grant program for which the federal government provides a limited budget, while food stamps are provided to any eligible recipient who signs up, regardless of cost.
This raises questions about how food stamps and WIC do, can and should interact, and whether WIC programs offer benefits (even those that also serve as hurdles) that could benefit food stamp recipients. Do we want eligible women to reject WIC for food stamps - and if we don't, how should both programs change?

        
More Children Living (and Lacking) in High-Poverty Areas
        
The Older Kids Get, The Less Healthfully They Eat
        
Talking to a Child Who Is Overweight, but Unaware
        
Parental Quandary: A Daughter Who Is Overweight, and Unaware
        
(Don't) Take Your Children to Work Day

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (92%); NUTRITION (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FOOD STAMPS (85%); WOMEN (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); TRENDS (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); PARENTING (73%); DEPRESSION (71%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) childhood obesity; childhood poverty; Poverty; WIC; Babies and Infants; Children and Childhood; Diet and Nutrition; Economic Conditions and Trends; Families and Family Life; Food Stamps; Parenting; Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine; Pew Center on the States

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%) Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine; Pew Center on the States

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012



396 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: An Endless Quest for Weight-Loss Pills

BYLINE: DANIELLE OFRI, M.D.


HIGHLIGHT: The weight-loss field is strewn with lemons, more so than other areas of medicine, and because of the enormous potential market for these drugs, pharmaceutical companies rush new drugs to market after conducting only small clinical trials, writes Dr. Danielle Ofri. 

 BODY:
Right after residency, I took a summer job in a family practice in a beach town on Long Island, covering Fridays and weekends for the regular doctors. The setting was quite different from my training in an urban hospital. It was a bit of a culture shock to go from a world of critically ill hospitalized patients to an outpatient suburban setting where most weekend appointments were for sore throats, rashes and sprained ankles. But I quickly became a pro at Lyme disease identification.
One day, a woman in her early 40s came for an appointment. She asked me to prescribe fen-phen, a weight-loss pill that combined the drugs fenfluramine and phentermine and was being heavily marketed at the time. 
I remember gazing at her from across the desk, thinking that she certainly didn't look overweight, and asked her why she wanted weight-loss pills. 
She grasped the skin around her stomach and said ruefully, "I've been trying to get rid of these extra pounds after having kids."
I leaned over to see what she was holding in her grip. It looked like a normal amount of stomach to me. 
Having just spent the past three years taking care of critically ill hospital patients who were dealing with heart attacks, septic shock, pneumonia and bleeding ulcers, I had a hard time seeing a few extra pounds as a medical issue. I was also a little leery of the whole idea of weight-loss pills, which seemed like a Band-Aid approach to what was usually a lifetime pattern of poor eating habits and inactivity. 
I started to explain my concerns, noting that every medication has side effects. But before I could even get to any discussion about diet and exercise, she cut me off. 
"I've taken fen-phen before," she said, her voice more harsh now. "I just need a prescription from you, not a lecture."
I was taken aback by the vociferousness of her response. I scanned her chart to see if she'd been heavier in the past. She hadn't. In fact, she was quite healthy, with no major medical problems. I wondered if she might have an eating disorder that might alter her perception of her weight. 
But we never got that far. When I reiterated my hesitations about prescribing pills for weight loss, she grew angry and stormed out in a huff.
A month later, The New England Journal of Medicine published an article linking fen-phen to heart valve abnormalities. Shortly after, the medication was pulled from the market. I wanted to feel vindicated, but I knew that during my tense exchange with my patient I hadn't had any clinical premonitions about the drugs' dangers, just a sense that she didn't really need weight-loss pills.
This encounter came to mind recently when I read an essay called "Lemons for Obesity" in Annals of Internal Medicine. The author, Dr. Michael S. Lauer, was one of only two members of a 22-member Food and Drug Administration panel who earlier this year voted against approval of the new weight-loss drug Qnexa, a combination of phentermine and topiramate, an epilepsy drug with an unexpectedly salubrious side effect of weight loss. 
Final approval of the drug has been delayed, but in the essay, Dr. Lauer gives a brief history of Qnexa's approval process, including concerns of cardiovascular side effects and possible risks of cleft lip and cleft palate in babies born to mothers taking the drug. Then he makes an interesting analogy to the used-car market, citing the 1970 paper "The Market for Lemons" that eventually won a Nobel in economic science for its author, George Akerlof. 
Lemons are harder to sell than quality products, so sellers do more promotion and offer steeper discounts, Dr. Akerlof had argued. In addition, used-car buyers (like patients) know much less about the product than used-car sellers (and pharmaceutical companies). Lay people rarely have much success when looking under the hoods of either cars or medicines. This combination of "information asymmetry" and aggressive marketing can allow lemons to dominate the market.
Dr. Lauer lists the impressive number of lemons for treating obesity. Fen-phen, ephedra, sibutramine and phenylpropanolamine all had to be pulled from the market for safety concerns. A drug popular in Europe, rimonabant, was denied approval in the United States because of side effects. The lone prescription drug currently available in America for weight loss, orlistat, offers only minor weight loss with the trade-off of major stomach problems in the form of oily, greasy stools.
The weight-loss field is strewn with lemons, more so than other areas of medicine, Dr. Lauer argues. Because of the enormous potential market for these drugs -- two-thirds of American adults are overweight or obese -- pharmaceutical companies rush new drugs to market after conducting only small clinical trials. The F.D.A. and doctors are complicit in the process, Dr. Lauer says, leaving the population at large to act essentially as guinea pigs. 
Dr. Lauer cites another intriguing paper from the 1970s, by Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, that highlights our biases when interpreting data, especially from small studies. There is an "illusion of validity" for any random data point, a seductive sense that is colored by what we hope will be true. Mountains of pharmaceutical claims are often made from mere molehills of data.
In the decades since my encounter with the patient who demanded fen-phen, I've become a lot less smug about the problem of obesity. I appreciate that there are factors at play beyond diet and exercise, but the "lemon lesson" has stayed with me. It's hard to know at the outset which new drugs are lemons and which will become game-changers. But any drug that arrives on the scene with heavy promotion and only modest benefits deserves the same circumspect attitude as that too-good-to-be-true used car.
Danielle Ofri is the author of three books, including "Medicine in Translation: Journeys With My Patients." She is an associate professor of medicine at New York University School of Medicine and editor in chief of the Bellevue Literary Review.

        
Impatience to Get Thin Sends Some to Canada
        
The Consumer: In New Diet Math, Subtracting Is Hard
        
What Doctors Can Learn From Musicians
        
The Shame of Filling a Prescription
        
Why Lost Pounds Come Back

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DIETING (89%); EATING DISORDERS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (83%); HOSPITALS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEART DISEASE (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); LYME DISEASE (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); PNEUMONIA (71%); NUTRITION (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%); SUBURBS (56%) Danielle Ofri; weight loss; Doctors; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Fen-Phen (Drug Combination); Medicine and Health; Obesity; Qnexa (Drug); Weight; Best of Well; Featured

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012



397 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Effect

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news for today's times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
It was the pressure of rapidly building speculation that led President Obama to announce publicly on Wednesday that he supports same-sex marriage, but the political impact is a wild card, since Mr. Obama's re-election prospects in November will still hinge on the economy's performance, Jackie Calmes and Peter Baker write. Mr. Obama's schedule is packed with events that would have brought attention to the issue anyhow, including a fund-raiser at George Clooney's Los Angeles home on Thursday that is expected to raise about $12 million, much of it from gay rights advocates.
Mr. Obama decision to endorse same-sex marriage was a watershed moment in American politics in line with increasing support among the general public for recognizing gay and lesbian unions, Adam Nagourney writes. But taking a stance on such a divisive issue while he is in the heat of a tight presidential race with his Republican rival Mitt Romney, although inevitable, carries significant political risks for the president, he adds.
Mr. Romney wasted no time Wednesdayreaffirming his opposition to same-sex marriages and civil unions on Wednesday, sharpening the contrast between himself and Mr. Obama about what legal status and protections should be afforded to same-sex couples, Michael Barbaro reports.
The fund-raiser at Mr. Clooney's place represents the successful culmination of Mr. Obama's efforts to court donors in Hollywood as his campaign tries to compete with the "super PACs" backing Mr. Romney and to make up for the loss of Wall Street cash that was pivotal to Mr. Obama's 2008 election, Mr. Nagourney and Jim Rutenberg note.
Senator Richard G. Lugar's primary loss to a Tea Party-backed Republican candidate has energized Democrats' hopes of taking the Indiana seat from Republicans after more than three decades while also making Republicans more determined to keep the seat in their hands, Monica Davey and Trip Gabriel report.
Congressional investigators will continue looking at whether Representative Vern Buchanan of Florida may have violated federal law and Congressional rules by trying to get a business partner to lie about illegal campaign donations, Eric Lichtblau reports. House Republicans are feeling the pressure of the cloud of investigation hanging over Mr. Buchanan, who leads their fund-raising efforts nationwide.
Happening in Washington:
Economic reports scheduled to be released Thursday include weekly jobless claims, import and export prices indexes for April, and international trade for March, all at 8:30 a.m. At 10, expect weekly mortgage rates and, at 2 p.m., the federal budget for April.
At 9:30 a.m., lawmakers on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will examine the impact of inspector general vacancies at federal agencies. Ten positions remain open, according to the panel.
At 11:45 a.m., Senator Bernard Sanders, an independent from Vermont, and Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, plan to introduce legislation that would eliminate all oil, coal and gas production subsidies.
In the afternoon, Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden will participate in events at the White House and the vice president's residence honoring military mothers and preparing gifts for them.

        
The Early Word: New Day
        
The Early Word: Report Card
        
The Early Word: Scrambled
        
The Weekend Word: Strategies
        
The Early Word: Bin Laden's Letters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (65%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); IMPORT TRADE (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); IMPORT PRICES (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); EXPORT PRICES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); DICK LUGAR (59%); GEORGE CLOONEY (58%); VERN BUCHANAN (57%); BERNIE SANDERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



398 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Micron Technology in Deal Discussions With Elpida Memory

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Micron said it was in discussions to acquire Elpida Memory, a rival chipmaker in Japan that has filed for bankruptcy protection. 

 BODY:
The semiconductor company Micron Technology said on Thursday that it was in discussions to acquire a struggling rival, the Japanese microchip manufacturer Elpida Memory.
The deal would help expand Micron's presence in the global microchip market, and comes less than a week after SK Hynix of South Korea dropped out of the race to acquire the Elpida.
A number of bidders have been circling Elpida since the company filed for bankruptcy protection in February. It has more than $5 billion in debt, and the company struggled with weak consumer demand amid the struggling global economy.
In a statement, Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, confirmed that it had entered into negotiations with Elpida about a potential deal.
"Elpida has decided to move forward in negotiations with Micron as the potential sponsor," the American company said in a statement. 
Micron did not provide any detail about the potential deal.
Not everyone is happy with Micron's interest in Elpida. A number of the Elpida debtholders have criticized efforts to sell the company, saying that they could put forward their own restructuring plan if the proposed sale price is too low.

        
Old Chip Cartel Case Is Brought to Swift End
        
Elpida Snags Some of Spansion's Flash Assets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (92%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); ELECTRONICS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); CARTELS (72%) Elpida Memory; Micron Technology; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (92%); ELPIDA MEMORY INC (90%); SPANSION INC (55%)

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (92%); CODE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (69%) IDAHO, USA (74%) JAPAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



399 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Breaking Up Four Big Banks

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Slowly, and on both sides of the aisle, concern is mounting over the biggest banks and how few strictures they face, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Almost exactly two years ago, at the height of the Senate debate on financial reform, a serious attempt was made to impose a binding size constraint on our largest banks. That effort - sometimes referred to as the Brown-Kaufman amendment - received the support of 33 senators and failed on the floor of the Senate. (Here is some of my Economix coverage from the time.)
On Wednesday, Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, introduced the Safe, Accountable, Fair and Efficient Banking Act, or SAFE Banking Act, which would force the largest four banks in the country to shrink. (Details of this proposal, similar in name to the original Brown-Kaufman plan, are in this briefing memo for a Senate banking subcommittee hearing on Wednesday, available through Politico, and in this news release).
His proposal, while not likely to become law immediately, is garnering support from across the political spectrum - and more support than essentially the same ideas received two years ago.
The proposition is simple: Too-big-to-fail banks should be made smaller, and preferably small enough to fail without causing global panic. This idea had been gathering momentum since the fall of 2008 and, while the Brown-Kaufman amendment originated on the Democratic side, support was beginning to appear across the aisle.

But big banks and the Treasury Department both opposed it, and parliamentary maneuvers ensured there was little real debate. (For a compelling account of how the financial lobby works, both in general and in this instance, look for a forthcoming book by Jeff Connaughton, former chief of staff to former Senator Ted Kaufman of Delaware.)
The issue has not gone away. And while the financial sector has pushed back with some success against various components of the Dodd-Frank reform legislation, the idea of breaking up very large banks has gained momentum. 
In particular, informed sentiment has shifted against continuing to allow very large banks to operate in their current highly leveraged form, with a great deal of debt and very little equity. There is increasing recognition of the huge and unfair costs that these structures impose on the rest of the economy. 
The implicit subsidies provided to too-big-to-fail companies allow them to increase compensation by hundreds of millions of dollars. But the costs imposed on the rest of us are in the trillions of dollars. This is a monstrously unfair and inefficient system, and sensible public figures are increasingly pointing this out.
American Banker, a leading trade publication, recently posted a slide show, "Who Wants to Break Up the Big Banks?" Its gallery included people from across the political spectrum, with a great deal of financial sector and public policy experience, along with quotations that appear to support either Senator Brown's approach or a similar shift in philosophy with regard to big banks in the United States. (The slide show is available only to subscribers.) 
According to American Banker, we now have in the "break up the banks" corner (in order of appearance in that feature): Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas; Sheila Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; Thomas Hoenig, a board member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City; Jon Huntsman, former Republican presidential candidate and former governor of Utah; Senator Brown; Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England; Senator Bernard Sanders, an independent of Vermont; and Camden Fine, president of the Independent Community Bankers of America. (I am also on the American Banker list.)
Anat Admati of Stanford and her colleagues have led the push for much higher capital requirements - emphasizing the particular dangers around allowing our largest banks to operate in their current highly leveraged fashion. This position has also been gaining support in the policy and media mainstream, most recently in the form of a powerful Bloomberg View editorial. 
(You can follow her work and related discussion on this Web site; on Twitter she is @anatadmati.)
Senator Brown's legislation reflects also the idea that banks should finance themselves more with equity and less with debt. Professor Admati and I submitted a letter of support, together with 11 colleagues whose expertise spans almost all dimensions of how the financial sector really operates. 
We particularly stress the appeal of having a binding "leverage ratio" for the largest banks. This would require them to have at least 10 percent equity relative to their total assets, using a simple measure of assets not adjusted for any of the complicated "risk weights" that banks can game.
We also agree with the SAFE Banking Act that to limit the risk and potential cost to taxpayers, caps on the size of an individual bank's liabilities relative to the economy can also serve a useful role (and the same kind of rule should apply to nonbank financial institutions). 
Under the proposed law, no bank holding company could have more than $1.3 trillion in total liabilities (i.e., that would be the maximum size). This would affect our largest banks, which are $2 trillion or more in total size, but in no way undermine their global competitiveness. This is a moderate and entirely reasonable proposal.
No one is suggesting that making JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo smaller would be sufficient to ensure financial stability. 
But this idea continues to gain traction, as a measure complementary to further strengthening and simplifying capital requirements and generally in support of other efforts to make it easier to handle the failure of financial institutions. 
Watch for the SAFE Banking Act to gain further support over time.

        
Progress on Letting Big Banks Fail
        
Opening Up the Fed
        
Should We Trust Paid Experts on the Volcker Rule?
        
Could Huntsman and the Democrats Ally on Bank Reform?
        
No One Is Above the Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); PRESS RELEASES (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%) banking regulation; Daily Economist; Dodd-Frank; financial crisis; financial reform; politics; Simon Johnson; too big to fail; Brown, Sherrod; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Today's Economist

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (91%); TED KAUFMAN (79%) Brown, Sherrod

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012



400 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Moves to Comply With Volcker Rule

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs discloses in a regulatory filing that it sold $250 million worth of investments it had in hedge funds and that it lost money on one trading day in the first quarter. 

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs, moving to comply with a new rule aimed at reducing the riskiness of the country's big banks, recently sold some of its investments in hedge funds. 
The Wall Street firm disclosed in a regulatory filing on Thursday that it had sold $250 million worth of investments it had in hedge funds. Typically, Goldman will invest in hedge funds alongside its clients, but new regulations require the bank to reduce those holdings. 
Banks have roughly two years to bring their businesses into line with the so-called Volcker Rule, which aims to rein in risk-taking on Wall Street by barring banks from placing bets with their own money. It will also will reduce the amount of capital they can investment in sometimes risky vehicles like hedge funds. Going forward, banks will be able to invest only about 3 percent of their capital in hedge funds. 
"The firm currently plans to comply with the Volcker Rule by redeeming certain of its interests in hedge funds," Goldman Sachs wrote in filing, which outlines its business activities for the three months that ended March 31.
The disclosure was part of a grab bag of information about the firm that included new disclosures about some of its legal battles as well as the number of trading days Goldman lost money on in the first quarter.
The bank said its "reasonably possible" losses from lawsuits in the quarter rose to $2.7 billion, up from $2.4 billion at the end of 2011. There was at least one new item of note in the disclosure. 
Goldman disclosed that in February it was named as a respondent in three separate arbitration claims filed by the cities of Houston and Reno, Nev., and a California school district. Goldman said the claims were based on its role as underwriter and broker-dealer of the claimants' issuances of roughly $1.7 billion of auction rate securities from 2004 to 2007. 
The three entities say Goldman failed to disclose crucial information about their investments. The auction rate security market ran into trouble during the financial crisis, causing some investors to lose money. A number of people and institutions have filed claims against Wall Street firms over this issue. The cities and the California school district are seeking to recover damages. 
The bank also disclosed that it could owe counterparties an additional collateral of $2.21 billion if its credit rating falls two levels. Moody's Investors Service has said it will decide in the next two months whether to lower its ratings for 17 global financial companies, a move that could also increase the borrowing costs of banks like Goldman. 
On the trading front, Goldman said in the filing that it lost money on just one day in the first quarter, an improvement over the fourth quarter, when it lost money on 17 days. The firm's traders made more than $100 million on 24 of the 62 days in the most recent quarter. 
Difficult markets took a bite out of profit in the fourth quarter, but the first quarter was one of Goldman's best for trading in a while. The bank earned $2.1 billion in the period, down 23 percent from a year ago but ahead of what Wall Street analysts were expecting. 

        
Goldman Said to Weigh Prop Trading Spinoff
        
Lawmakers Push for a Final Volcker Rule by the Summer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (84%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DAMAGES (70%); LITIGATION (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%) Goldman Sachs; Hedge Funds; Moody's Investors Service; Paul Volker; Volcker Rule; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

 
