

1 of 788 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3289 words

HEADLINE: 1/1/00: FROM BALI TO BROADWAY; A Glittering Party For Times Square

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Two thousand years after Christ's obscure birth in a dusty town in Judea, the world's six billion people - most of them non-Christian and many of them preoccupied with terrorism, computers, diets, bank accounts, politics and the perils of the future - rode their turning blue planet across time's invisible line today and, by common consent, looked into the dawn of a new millennium.
What they saw first was a party. It was garish, glittering and global, and millions, setting religious considerations and personal concerns aside, joined in the festivities to celebrate the conjunction of a new year, a new century and a new thousand-year cycle of history. They also put aside the inconvenient fact that the millennium, technically, is still a year off. It hardly mattered. In Times Square and across the United States, in Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, in cities and towns all over the world, bells pealed, crowds shrieked and surged, skyrockets soared into the night, fireworks burst into supernovas, ''Auld Lang Syne'' rang out, lights pulsed, loved ones and friends embraced, and the music and Champagne flowed. 
 On a rainbow day whose moods ran the spectrum from tensions and prayers to euphoria and irresistible hyperbole, what most were calling Christianity's Third Millennium arrived in 24 stages as the earth revolved through the time zones and midnight elapsed again and again in an around-the-clock, around-the-world series of golden moments that began at the international date line in the Pacific and raced westward across Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas.
 In New York, a vast crowd of revelers - the guesses ran as high as an improbable two million - packed Times Square and much of Midtown Manhattan for the biggest public event ever held in the city - a 26-hour, $7 million marathon of music, fireworks, confetti and deafening voices as a 1,070-pound crystal ball descended at midnight and the crowds roared berserkly, while the police sweated out an enormous potential for trouble.
 And there were lavish celebrations in Washington, London, Paris, Rome, Berlin, Jerusalem, Moscow, Cape Town, New Delhi, Shanghai, Beijing, Tokyo, Mexico City, Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires and hundreds of other cities. There were parties, concerts, dances, torchlight parades and televised extravaganzas that brought the worldwide show to billions more at home, and back to the crowds in Times Square over giant video screens - a case of celebrators watching celebrators.
 To a Martian Earthwatcher (tuning in with delicate ear and Cyclopean eye), it might have appeared that the inhabitants of the third world from the Sun had suddenly lost their senses or gone to war again. But it was only humanity on the threshold of a new age, exercising its primal urge to celebrate. 
 There had been an avalanche of happy millennial overkill in recent days - claims of the last-game, last-meal, first-baby kind - and yesterday it was the turn of world leaders in government, religion, science and other fields, who spoke of the millennium's meaning in more serious tones.
 ''Today, we celebrate more than the changing of the calendar,'' President Clinton, extending millennium greetings to the world, said in an address to diplomats and children from 100 nations. ''We celebrate the opportunity we have to make this a true changing of the times, a gateway to greater peace and freedom, to prosperity and harmony.''
 In Moscow, Boris Yeltsin, who has been plagued with heart and other problems for most of his eight years as Russia's president, unexpectedly announced his resignation. ''Russia must enter the next millennium with new politicians, with new personalities and with new smart, strong and energetic people,'' he said. ''And we who have been in power for many years must go.''
 At the Vatican, Pope John Paul II, fulfilling his dream to lead the Roman Catholic Church across the threshold of 2000, gave his blessing to a vast crowd in St. Peter's Square, reiterated his calls for an end to war and poverty, and thanked God for ''the events of this year, this century and this millennium.''
 There were millions around the world who had no reason to be festive, people like Tom Nganga, 40, who lives in Kangemi, a vast slum of Nairobi, Kenya. ''We as Kenyans and people of Kangemi are very, very angry as we celebrate this millennium, '' he said. ''People are very poor. People have nothing to eat. We have nothing to celebrate.''
 While the millennium celebrations drew millions, there were relatively few casualties. In the Philippines, two people were killed by stray gunfire and a 5-year-old boy died after a firecracker exploded in his face. At least 200 other Filipinos were injured by fireworks. In Paris, 70 people were hurt in crowds.
 After years of concern over Y2K computer problems that had cost billions of dollars to fix, there were no immediate reports of computer-related disasters anywhere in the world, no plane crashes, major power failures, nuclear plant shutdowns or collapses of banking, business, government or health care systems.
 But elevators, intercity trains and subways in many American cities and in other countries as well were halted briefly over the witching hour, and some airlines canceled flights for the day, just to be safe. Many airports were all but deserted, with wary travelers staying put. Experts said it might take days for some computer problems to develop, in part because many businesses and government agencies were closed for the holiday weekend.
 There had also been fears that terrorists, publicity seekers or the insane might set off explosions or mount chemical or biological attacks as millions gathered to celebrate, while vast audiences watched on television. No specific threats had been reported, although some suspects had been seized recently. Still, there were no immediate reports of trouble, and law enforcement authorities seemed ready for almost anything.
 The millennium, an idea with overtones ranging from Biblical to commercial, had swelled recently into a coercive miniculture as the countdown ticked away and a flood of books, articles, television specials and studied commentaries by academic, political and religious leaders reflected upon the last thousand years of human achievements and missteps, and speculated on the next thousand.
 Purists still insist that the millennium will not start until Jan. 1, 2001, and they have a point. Centuries and millennia have always ended with the last day of the ''zeros'' year. But it is all a muddle, because the calendar, at best, is arbitrary. There were problems from ancient times based on inaccuracies in measuring the year's duration and its uneven division into days, weeks and months. By 1582, the spring equinox was 10 days early, and the days were dropped when the Gregorian calendar replaced the old Julian version. While Pope Gregory's calendar uses the birth of Christ in 1 B.C. as a starting date, many scholars now suggest that the year was probably closer to 4 B.C.
 In any case, as Voltaire noted, history is the lie that historians agree upon, and the tide of popular opinionNalways impatient for early results - swept nearly everyone along in recent months. And with the climax of the celebrations, and especially when the nines rolled into zeros at midnight and humanity went ballistic, purists' talk of technicalities was the last thing anyone wanted to hear.
 For doomsayers who had prophecied conflagrations, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and other end-of-the-world scenarios (and kept a weather eye out for U.F.O. rescue ships), the new millennium was something of a nonevent, although the anxiety prompted by all the wild predictions of chaos was real enough. 
 The Book of Revelations, Chapter 20, speaks of a resurrection of the dead and a Judgment Day, of sinners cast into a lake of fire and Christ reigning for a thousand years. But if it was not the Second Coming of Jesus as foretold in the Bible, there was still a year to go, or this was the wrong millennium.
 And if, as some said, even the idea of a Third Christian Millennium was a Western conceit in a world where Christians are a minority, and one that overlooked other calendars calling this 1420 (Muslim) or 5760 (Jewish), it was also true that the world had long ago come by economic and social necessity to agree upon the Western calendar for trade, travel and other common purposes.
 The millennium, if nothing else, was a celebration of history, marking human survival after a deadly century of wars, genocide and revolution that saw the end of colonialism, fascism and communism, as well as the achievements of the past thousand years - printing and widespread literacy; the exploration of the last frontiers on earth; the first ventures into outer space, the inner mind and the microscopic universe, and the flowering of democratic government, and of art, literature, science, technology and communications into undreamed eminences.
 The world on this Millennium Day was still beset with terrible problems - with grinding poverty that afflicted a third of its 6 billion inhabitants, with ethnic and national strife, with the continuing curse of racial and religious bigotries, and with the exclusion of millions from adequate health care, education, jobs and even such basic needs as shelter and clean water, not to mention freedoms of speech and political association.
 But with a few exceptions - notably threats of terrorism and limited wars in the Balkans, Chechnya and other regions - it was a world largely at peace, with the apocalyptic threat of nuclear annihilation receding and new understandings growing between old enemies in the Middle East, Ireland, South Africa and other long-troubled areas.
 And it was a world on the threshold of a new era - one that offered visions of astounding strides in science and technology and seemed to hold out anew the ancient promises of universal peace and prosperity, although the only certainty seemed to be that the world a thousand years from now would be unrecognizable.
 As Dec. 31, 1999 gave way to Jan. 1, 2000, in each time zone at midnight, with atomic clocks marking it to a millisecond, celebrators went ecstatic. It began in Fiji and the Kiribati and Marshall Islands in the Western Pacific (it was 7 a.m. E.S.T. yesterday) and moved westward, hour by hour, as the earth turned and 23 more midnights fell across Australia, Asia, Europe, Africa, the Americas and back across the Pacific, ending in Samoa at 6 a.m. E.S.T. today.
 Islanders in Kiribati welcomed the millennium with the mournful sounds of a conch shell and with traditional chants and dancing on the beach of a normally uninhabited coral atoll, dubbed Millennium Island.
 In Japan, which has absorbed many of the trappings of the Western world while preserving its own cultural and religious traditions, bells tolled in a Buddhist ritual to dispel evils as thousands flocked to temples and shrines. In Tokyo, people went to parties and crowds swarmed to bayside events, including rock concerts and lavish fireworks.
 In China, torchbearers in Imperial- era costumes lighted signal fires on the watchtowers of the Great Wall, which snakes 3,000 miles from the Gobi Desert to the North China Sea, and President Jiang Zemin lighted an eternal flame to greet the new millennium and pledged a ''great rejuvenation'' by reuniting with Taiwan. Over Hong Kong Harbor there were brilliant fireworks displays, and parties abounded, a prelude to the Chinese New Year, the Year of the Dragon, which starts Feb. 5.
 The festivities for most of India's one billion people were muted by comparison with those in wealthier nations, but hundreds of thousands danced, drank and ate at open-air stalls in New Delhi and partygoers were out in force in other cities, celebrating the peaceful end of an eight-day hostage crisis on an Indian Airlines jet hours before midnight.
 Iran and its Persian Gulf neighbors largely ignored the new millennium, which fell during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, a time for prayer and reflection.
 In Israel, where religious tension is high at the best of times, security was heavy as three religions and some doomsday cultists marked the occasion, each in its own way. It was especially tight on Jerusalem's Mount of Olives, where Christian fundamentalists had camped to witness the end of the world, and at the Old City's Temple Mount, with sites sacred to Muslims and Jews.
 On the last New Year's Eve of the Christian millennium, observant Jews ushered in the Sabbath, as they do every Friday, and many went to pray at the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site, while 400,000 Muslims flocked to Al Aksa Mosque on the Temple Mount to mark the last Friday of prayer and fasting in the holy month of Ramadan.
 With religious bans on celebrations that might desecrate holy days, the celebrations in Israel were relatively subdued. In Palestinian-governed Bethlehem, the town revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus, 2,000 doves were released at midnight on Manger Square, and in secular Tel Aviv, thousands just went to the beach to watch the sun set over the Mediterranean.
 In Paris, with new lighting on buildings, boulevards and bridges over the Seine twinkling like the bonfires of a great medieval encampment, people packed the Champs-.lys.es from the Tuileries to the Arc de Triomphe as a digital clock at the Eiffel Tower counted down - overcoming an old-fashioned glitch that shut it down five hours before midnight - and announced the millennium in a burst of 20,000 electronic flashes.
 In London, two million people lined the Thames for a spectacular fireworks show, while Queen Elizabeth, Prime Minister Tony Blair and other dignitaries gathered under the 20- acre Millennium Dome, a flying-saucer-like colossus at Longitude Zero in Greenwich, to mark the transition while the bells of St. Paul's and Westminster and churches across Britain pealed. Huge street parties were held in hundreds of Britain's cities.
 In Egypt, floodlights, lasers and fireworks illuminated the ancient pyramids at Giza and electronic music reverberated over the desert as 50,000 people wined and dined in luxurious tents and watched a sparkling millennium show under the watchful eyes of police officers on camels.
 Elsewhere, there were torchlight parades in the streets of Stockholm; fireworks and singing by massed choirs in Reykjavik, Iceland, and Helsinki, Finland; concerts and a ball at the opera house in Tallinn, Estonia; enormous street parties in Edinburgh, Scotland, and a Millennium Ball at the Catherine Palace in St. Petersburg, Russia.
 In the United States, huge festivities were held on the Washington Mall, and in New Orleans, Chicago, Miami, Los Angeles, Boston, San Francisco and other cities. 
 In New York, it was a day to remember. The centerpiece was the spectacle billed as ''Times Square 2000: the Global Celebration at the Crossroads of the World.'' Worried authorities had closed 50 blocks of Midtown to traffic, banned alcohol in open containers and flooded the area with 8,000 officers just in case. All vehicles were towed away as a precaution against car bombs.
 Throughout the city, 37,000 of New YorkOs police officers were on duty, and there was plenty for them to survey. The Times Square celebration was only one of 329 public events in the city, the biggest of the others at Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn, at Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens, at the Bronx Zoo and in Central Park and Bryant Park in Manhattan.
 The celebration in Times Square went off as planned with all-day, allnight pulsing music and cacophonous entertainments by 1,000 musicians, actors, dancers, puppeteers and other performers working from a stage on Seventh Avenue between 45th and 46th Streets.
 Broadway, curving like adancer's leg, was packed from 42nd Street to Central Park, along with most of the side streets between the Avenue of the Americas and Eighth Avenue. The old wickedness of Times Square was missing, but for most in the crowd it was an adventure just to be caught, shoulder to shoulder, jostling for happiness at the intersection of past and future.
 The show ran all day and all night, from 6 a.m. yesterday to 8 a.m. today, and thousands showed up early to stake claims near ground zero. By the time the sun went down, the crowds were already gigantic. They came in shoals from the suburbs, from across the nation and from countless places abroad, and they swept into the vast clogged carnival, determined to experience the exotic and illusory evening.
 They were in a euphoric mood, capped and scarved and padded like armadillos against the cold. They watched twilight print the sky with darkness, and the blue night city come to life, glittering like a tiara. By midevening, much of Midtown was seized up in human gridlock. Laser lights slid up the skyscrapers and washed over the writhing mass of Lilliputian figures below.
 The crowds were squeezed into police-barrier pens to create lanes for emergency vehicles, and many had to watch events on giant video screens. The closer to 1 Times Square, where the ball descended, the more bleary the crowd looked, many having stood their ground for a day and a half. A stench arose from a layer of garbage underfoot that included pizza and other less identifiable things.
 The tradition of celebrators' watching others celebrate was continued on a global scale. Live video from festivities around the world were pumped into Times Square, and the scenes there were beamed by 45 networks out to a worldwide audience of a billion people.
 It was all perfect for television - the images clear and colorful, reducing everything, even the millennium, to entertainment. There were no distracting speeches by dignitaries striking the just-right crystal phrases; indeed, the program - including an international pageant that, hour by hour, reflected the countries where midnight was then occurring - was deliberately languageless.
 That, too, was perfect for this crowd, which seemed preoccupied with itself: people taking pictures of each other, fussing with food, gawking at the neon forest, looking for Peter Jennings and paying little attention to the pageant of Japanese yogi-bushi umbrellas, Sri Lankan monk chants, Russian ballerinas, Kenyan war dancers, Argentine rain forest butterfly puppets and Lakota Sioux in face paint.
 But the crowd got into the spirit of things, screaming numbers as the final seconds of the failing millennium were counted down. The tensions that had been building for weeks reached a climax, and there was an inescapable sense of a great public moment at hand, one that most generations could never experience.
 On center stage, the buckram face of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, proud as a drum major, stood at the controls of the descending ball with Dr. Mary Ann Hopkins, 36, who was being honored for her work in war-torn countries as a volunteer in Doctors Without Borders.
 And when midnight struck, the roar was deafening: a din of horns, amplified music and countless voices shrieking at the edge of madness. In the chaos, lasers zoomed, flashbulbs sparkled, a blizzard of confetti and streamers and balloons filled the air, and in the distance a blinding dazzle of fireworks exploded.
 They sang, ''Auld Lang Syne,'' and the joyous screams and congratulatory embraces went on and on. The fireworks, too, went on and on-over the East River off South Street Seaport, in Central Park, in Brooklyn's Prospect Park - the biggest pyrotechnic display in history - a booming, sparkling, scintillating barrage of rockets and sunbursts that bathed the awed faces in eerie light and echoed off the facades of a city that seemed to exist only in the imagination. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARIS -- An explosion of colors at the Eiffel Tower. (Associated Press)
BALI -- Romance blossoms in bubbles at a disco. (Associated Press)
MOSCOW -- A lighted sky over a changing Kremlin. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
BIG NUMBERS, SQUARED -- Estimates of the crowd in Times Square ran to an improbable two million. Regardless, a huge mass of people greeted 2000. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)
 ONCE IN A LIFETIME -- At the stroke of midnight, there were fireworks, brilliant lights and cacophony. There was also a big celebration in Times Square. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MILLENNIUM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITIES (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (75%); TERRORISM (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); MARS (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (87%); ASIA (87%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009



2 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Works In Progress From All Over;
Rethinking the Graffiti Wars

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH

 BODY:
The centruy's turn has been a time of retrospectives: what was the most important event, who was the most influential thinker? Arts & Ideas decided to take a look ahead at what some of today's researchers are working on. From the most raked-over field, like the history of the ancient world, to the latest medical technology, scholars are coming up with fresh insights. Some ideas may turn into breakthroughs, and others may turn out to be dead-ends, but the journey is rarely boring. Here is a handful of works in progress.
Graffiti may seem like a strange subject for a scholar, but for Joe Austin, a professor of popular culture, the effort to eradicate graffiti in New York during the 1970's and 80's illustrated a sociological phenomenon known as deviance amplification. Translation: the more attention bad behavior gets, the more young people want to do it. 
 The graffiti wars began in the early 70's and continued through the 1975 fiscal crisis and 1977 blackout in New York. For city officials, "graffiti was the visible sign it had lost control," said Mr. Austin, who teaches at Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, Ohio, and studies the clash between youth culture and authority.
 City officials believed that if graffiti went unchecked it would signal a general lawlessness and more serious crimes would follow. This is sometimes called the broken-window thesis, popularized by James Q. Wilson, now a retired professor at the University of California in Los Angeles, and George Kelling of Rutgers University in an 1982 article in The Atlantic Monthly.
"If you allowed one window to break in a neighborhood and it wasn't repaired, people would think you can do other acts of vandalism," Mr. Austin explained. "Eventually this would become, 'It's all right to mug and rape people,' and a general sort of social chaos would ensue."
But Mr. Austin argues that the graffiti wars had an unexpected result: the more publicity the campaign got, the more writers sprayed-painted their work across the city.
His research does not rely on the standard scholarly tracts. His archives include graffiti magazines like The International Get Hip Times, Flashbacks and Styles for Miles. He has also interviewed more than 100 graffiti writers, whom he considers artists. His work is to be published by Columbia University Press as "Taking the Train."
The crackdown on graffiti in New York became a game of cat and mouse between the police and artists, said Mr. Austin. "The code of ethics of a graffiti writer is you don't write over another person's work unless you are trying to provoke him," Mr. Austin said. So to create dissension, the police marked over the artists' work.
To confuse the police, graffiti writers adopted different tags, or names. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority had a list of the 10 most wanted artists. "It was really only five guys," Mr. Austin said. "Three of the names were of one person."
One effect of the crackdown, Mr. Austin said, was that the quality of the artwork declined. Artists began doing fly-by-night drawings, called throw-ups, of the kind mostly seen in the city today.
Mr. Austin estimates the city spent about half a billion dollars between 1970 and 1990 trying to eradicate graffiti. By the mid-80's most of the graffiti on subway cars was cleaned up. But he argues that crime on the subways during those 20 years did not significantly decrease. "The correlation between graffiti and crime had no basis," he said. Most experts believe, Mr. Austin said, that the economy is the major influence on the city's crime rate.
The city, Mr. Austin said, "repressed a really important art movement in the 20th century, coming from young people who came from poor backgrounds.
"It actually takes a lot of skill to produce a mural that is 100 feet long and 12 feet high," he said, referring to the length of a subway train. "It served to deflect young people from membership in youth gangs."
Rather than squelching graffiti, he added, the city should have used it to beautify urban spaces.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Campaigns combatting graffiti may have invited only more scrawl. (Martha Cooper)(pg. F1); Keith Haring working on a subway drawing in the eartly 1980's. (Tseng Kwong Chi)(pg. F3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VANDALISM (90%); GRAFFITI (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); WRITERS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); ETHICS (73%); CITIES (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); TRAINS (70%); 

PERSON: JOE AUSTIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



3 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: 2000 and Beyond -- The Shape of an Age to Come

 BODY:
So now at last begins the year 2000, a juncture in time so long anticipated it is hard to believe it has arrived, disguised as a mere Saturday. The year is so utterly new, all four digits overturned at once, that simply seeing the date in print jars the eye.
The very novelty of it -- this is the roundest year any of us will ever see -- suggests momentous change. In a practical sense, of course, that is far from true. What remained undone on Friday will still need doing on Monday. Yet there is no denying that we have arrived at the gateway to another epoch, and the moment commands respect and reflection about the world to come. In a thousand years, when people look back at what has preceded them, they will see that the chronicle of this new millennium began with us, on this day. We belong now to their history, as progenitors, in a different way than we did even yesterday. 

 
Ideals for Posterity
When we gaze into a seeming infinity of tomorrows, we face the challenge that any generation confronts when it looks ahead: how to influence a future we cannot control or even predict. We can no more see the details of centuries yet to be than the residents of cultivated, tolerant, prosperous Baghdad in A.D. 1000 could imagine what their city would look like a millennium later under the tyranny of Saddam Hussein. We also recognize that no civilization lasts forever, and that America a thousand years hence will be something very different, if it exists at all.
None of this, however, relieves us of the obligation to do what is within our power. That is to help form the future by bequeathing the best of what we have learned about constructing and sustaining an enlightened civilization. History teaches that the surest way to reach across time is through the transmission of enduring values and ideals. The convictions of Washington and Jefferson still guide us powerfully today, just as the ideas of the ancient Greeks and the Enlightenment philosophers emboldened them. We have a similar opportunity to inspire coming generations by projecting toward them the principles that we have honed in more recent times. They can be the distinctive legacy of our age.
 
A Fresh Way of Seeing the World
For we are the custodians of an attitudinal revolution that developed in the last decades of the century -- the final seconds, figuratively speaking, of the millennium. We have come to see the need to organize the world's affairs in ways that bridge territorial, political and cultural boundaries and to act in concert to protect the health of the earth itself.
These ideas, now widely embraced, represent a seismic shift in how we think about the world, the relations between peoples and nations, and our relationship with the planet that is our home. Globalization has become a term of art for unifying trends in trade, communications and management. But it could as easily refer to a generous new consciousness about how the world should manage not just its enterprises and armies but the task of crafting a shared destiny.
True, we have not ended bloodshed or eliminated ethnic violence, nor have we overcome poverty or defeated disease. The fact that this day arrives freighted with anxiety about terrorist attacks in our most joyous public spaces shows that we have not conquered the violence born of bigotry and political division. It would be naive, even reckless, to suggest that the world's problems do not weigh heavily as the centuries turn, and we do not mean to underestimate the dangers that may lie ahead.
But in these first hours of a new era, it behooves us to imagine the future with a sense of optimism, something that eluded our ancestors as they struggled just to survive. We have the humane vision and technological means to lift the world family to new levels of liberty, affluence, health and happiness. Forging that possibility into reality is the task that greets us in the morning of the new millennium.
 
Decisive Lessons
The blinding flash and towering mushroom cloud that filled the sky over Alamogordo, N.M., on July 16, 1945, signaled the advent of a new world in which adversaries could unleash nature's most powerful forces. Less than 25 years later, three men peered back at Earth as they circled the moon, and from the porthole of their spacecraft that Christmas Eve in 1968 we could see how small, how wondrous our planet is as it floats in the black emptiness of space. The profound paradox of those images -- one deadly, one supernal -- has instructed the progressive nations of the world in the last years of the millennium.
We had acquired the tools to deform the entire planet, and not with weapons alone. Unrestrained pollution and surging population growth are forces of equal, albeit more gradual, cataclysmic potential. Yet just at this point of paralyzing danger, we also gained the ability to see the earth as a miraculous and mendable entity, and to think and act in altruistic ways that would have been unimaginable just a few decades ago.
The origins of this transforming process -- a universal learning experience that may in time be compared to the Renaissance -- can be found in the blossoming of democratic spirit in 18th-century revolutions. Later, industrialization demonstrated the life-changing potential of technology and inventiveness. The military conflicts of the last century created both a worldwide hunger for peace and a sharpened antipathy to totalitarian governance. The rising aspirations of Asia and Africa showed the futility of imperialism, while the United States and its Western partners, in their farsighted moments, were seeking to guide the world according to what Lincoln called the better angels of our nature.
In more recent years this new perspective deepened with the recognition and fear that the technology of war had brought us to the edge of a disaster from which the world might never recover. But it also grew from the interconnectedness of the modern age, the realization that the welfare of a single nation could not be severed from the welfare of the entire world. More benign technologies -- airplanes, telephones, television -- spurred the process. Today, computers and the global communications network are all but erasing national boundaries and undercutting nationalism itself.
 
A Different International Order
Our political and economic models are changing as the cold war recedes. We have learned that our leaders should be judged not by their ability to defeat enemies or conquer new territories, but on their capacity to extend prosperity and peace. Because even small countries can obtain the weapons to threaten not just adjacent lands but distant capitals, every nation has a critical interest in seeing every other nation do well. In the Middle East and most recently in the Balkans, the United States and its allies have found common purpose in combating regional bloodlettings and preventing rogue nations from acquiring biological, chemical and nuclear arms. We must be imaginative and wise in helping Russia and China become responsible world powers after tortured decades under Communism.
The third millennium's economy has to be a mutually beneficial construction of expanding productivity and shared prosperity, built around the engine of trade. It is easy to see a developing nation's wealth as an opportunity for new markets. We must also perceive that a poor nation's hunger is a danger to the well-being of the whole. One of the great goals for mankind in the opening decades of the new century must be to lift hundreds of millions of destitute people from poverty.
For poverty, like war, is contagious. It can destroy life, and the prospect of living as well. Deprived people must consume an earth they cannot afford to protect. They turn farmland into desert. They develop communicable diseases that can spread across continents in days.
 
Preservation of the Planet
Surely one of the modern epoch's greatest gifts to the third millennium is a new reverence for the environment. Until the most recent moment in human history, our relationship toward nature was always carelessly rapacious. But only since the Industrial Revolution have we been capable of doing irreparable damage to the land, water and air. We are the first generation to accept ecological stewardship as a duty to unborn generations.
Yet we cannot ignore the fact that our desire to see poor countries reach prosperity is colliding with our need to curb fossil fuels, deforestation and the depletion of an all too exhaustible sea. Resolving those conflicts early in the new millennium may well be the test by which posterity most stringently grades us. If managed properly, capitalism, with its roots in individual self-interest, can be a powerful tool for creating the wealth that allows developing nations to cleanse the air, earth and water.
Future generations will also measure what we did with the world's knowledge reserves. One of the rules for the next millennium must be that we have an obligation to disseminate, not hoard, new information about science, health and technology. The Internet has given us the tools for sharing. The will must still come from the human heart. In the end, the democratization of wealth and health depend on the worldwide democratization of knowledge.
 
 
The Light of a New Day
We will turn soon enough to the tasks that await us. Even now, the monumentality of this moment fades in the old familiarity of morning and afternoon. The sun has barely begun to gather itself after the winter solstice, and the light over the city and the country is so fragile that it threatens to splinter and fall in flakes to the ground, as it always threatens to do in January.
And yet something about the sound of 2000 draws past and future near in a way that we have never quite known before. So here we are now, all of us, just next door to yesterday and yet somehow in a different world. This day's firstborn are already with us, and the first of us to die in this new calendar have already gone. Soon we will have slept a full night in this strange-sounding year, and then another. We cannot know how the new millennium will end, but we do have the power to determine how it begins and, perhaps, what it will remember of us. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILLENNIUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (74%); CLASSICS (68%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



4 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Yield on 30-YearTreasury Rises to Near Its 2-Year High

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Treasury prices ended the year lower in a half-day session yesterday, pushing yields to near their highest levels in more than two years.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 24/32, to 95 12/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.48 percent from 6.42 percent, and near the 6.49 level it reached on Dec. 23. Prices of shorter-term maturities also fell, driving their rates higher. 
 The higher short-term rates offered evidence that the surprise resignation of President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia failed to spur demand for safe short-term United States Treasury securities.
Short-term bill rates rose as the federal funds rate traded near or at the Federal Reserve's 5.5 percent target for the rate. To ensure adequate liquidity over the Year 2000 weekend, the Fed added $15.6 billion in reserves to the banking system through weekend system repurchase agreements yesterday.
Some analysts minimized the significance of Friday's price deterioration, noting the thin trading.
But others said the slide was appropriate, considering the market's outlook, and was in character with the bear market that has been in place all year.
"In today's shortened session, the initial reaction from any analyst would be to say that today's price action had little significance since it occurred in extremely light trade," said William Sullivan, chief money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
But Mr. Sullivan said yesterday's slide proved that the market's gains in the previous two sessions were aberrant and technical.
"Simply put, there was no bid," he said. "The market's failure to hold its modest improvements is negative and sets the stage for higher rates almost immediately in the beginning of the year."
Activity during the session, which ended at 1 p.m., was sharply below a typical Friday.
William Hornbarger, fixed-income strategist at A. G. Edwards & Sons, said the trading screens were "practically empty." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



5 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Opposition Ex-Communist Favored in Croatia Vote

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Croatia

 BODY:
Ivica Racan, a 55-year-old ex-Communist with a beard and a taste for rock music, is likely to be Croatia's next prime minister if the polls hold and an opposition coalition wins parliamentary elections on Jan. 3.
And if the opposition does win, defeating the governing Croatian Democratic Union founded by Franjo Tudjman, the late president, Mr. Racan says he will move to cut spending on social services by 17 percent. Such a cut will not be very popular or seem very socialist, he acknowledged in an interview, but economic restructuring is something a desperate Croatia desperately needs. 
 Mr. Racan also promises an opposition government will cooperate better with the tribunal in The Hague investigating war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, although he has his doubts about its fairness toward Croatia. He defends the Croatian military action in 1995 that expelled nearly 200,000 Croatian Serbs.
But some in the government "thought they had to cover up war crimes so there would be no mud on our common fight for an independent Croatia," he said, and that fight is won. "Certain crimes are not defensible, and we have to prosecute them and preserve the value of our common struggle."
Mr. Racan also pledges to meddle less in Bosnia than the Tudjman government, which formally supported the Bosnian Federation of Muslims and Croats but in fact worked to undermine it and preserve a separate Bosnian Croat entity.
The opposition wants a more powerful parliament and a less powerful presidency, Mr. Racan says, a fairer justice system and more open access to state television, which currently operates as a private transmission belt for the governing party, which has run Croatia since independence in 1991. Creating a truly public television service, Mr. Racan said, is the coalition's first task.
"But it is much easier to talk about democracy when you're in opposition than when you're in power," Mr. Racan said disarmingly, looking toward his wife, Dijana Plestina, a professor of political science at Wooster College in Ohio.
Despite his opposition to Mr. Tudjman, who died on Dec. 11, Mr. Racan is respected here because of the way he behaved as the last leader of the Croatian Communist Party. Many believe that he could have cracked down on dissent in 1989-90; instead in 1990, he threw his support behind Croatia's first multiparty elections, which led to the sweeping victory of Mr. Tudjman and his party.
At that time, many Croatian Serbs voted for Mr. Racan and his party as emblematic of the more multiethnic ideals of Yugoslavia. But today, wary of offending the strong nationalist strain in the Croatian electorate, Mr. Racan is very careful about criticizing the government's languid efforts to allow Croatian Serbs to return to Croatia, as they are supposed to be able to do under the 1995 Dayton accords that ended the Bosnian war.
"We can't be completely dissatisfied with the return of refugees to Croatia," Mr. Racan said carefully, while adding that real progress in resettling Croatian Serbs must be "connected to the rest of the Balkans," meaning Bosnia and Belgrade.
But he acknowledged the "process has to be faster" in every direction, with Bosnian Croats able to return to Bosnia as well as Croatian Serbs able to return here. Despite the risk of inflaming nationalists, "I don't insist on complete reciprocity," he said, but added, "In this part of Europe, where there has been so much human suffering and destruction, it's not easy to defend my principles."
Opinion polls show that the parties of Mr. Racan and his coalition partner, Drazen Budisa, together with another allied four-party opposition coalition, will take a majority of the seats in parliament, although the governing party will remain the largest single party. The long-governing Croatian Democratic Union is being helped by the aura of Mr. Tudjman, whose beaming face as he hugs a child is featured on its billboards.
Dividing the spoils among six parties will be difficult.
Mr. Budisa, 51 and a former dissident, is expected to be the main opposition candidate in presidential elections on Jan. 24. Mate Granic, the moderate foreign minister, wants to be president, but the governing party is having trouble agreeing to his candidacy. The party has a strongly nationalist wing, and powerful players like the deputy speaker of Parliament, Vladimir Seks, and Ivic Pasalic, the former Tudjman internal security adviser, are afraid where Mr. Granic may take the party, even if he wins.
So Mr. Granic is being tempted to run as an independent, officials say, where he would confront a number of other candidates and hope to make it into a second-round runoff between the two top finishers. To become president, a candidate must win more than 50 percent of the vote.
Croatia's big economic problems -- a large budget deficit, national debt, high unemployment, corruption and an aging population (a fifth of the country is supposed to receive a pension) -- will be a kind of poison pill for any new government.
But Mr. Racan says the right words, as he hopes for Western support in any coming restructuring.
"We must stop Croatia's fall into deeper and deeper economic crisis," he said, proposing a radical cut in social spending and the high rate of taxation, and a strong effort to privatize state enterprises and banks, trying to attract foreign investment.
A common enough platform, but difficult here, where most state enterprises and banks have been run for the benefit of the governing party or its allies, and where privatization has been murky and corrupt, Western diplomats say, with the state bailing out the problem companies of its friends.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ivica Racan, the leader of the opposition coalition in Croatia. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); UNITED STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (76%); DAYTON, OH, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); UNITED STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (76%); DAYTON, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WAR CRIMES (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: IVICA RACAN (95%); FRANJO TUDJMAN (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



6 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Toward Dow 3,000,000 and Other Millennial Ruminations

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
AS the 20th century began, high-yielding railroad shares were virtually the only blue-chip American stocks that a conservative investor would consider. As it ended, the most popular stocks were being issued by young companies that had never earned a dollar, let alone paid a dividend.
Along the way, the American public fell in and out of love with the stock market at least twice, before ending the century completely enraptured with the possibility of wealth via Wall Street. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, by far the best-known average to have endured the entire century, rose 44.26, to a record 11,497.12, yesterday. For the decade, the Dow was up 318 percent, by far its best decade ever. For the century, it rose 26,130 percent. (If it does exactly as well in the next 100 years, the Dow will hit three million a few days before the century ends.)
The blue-chip railroads of a century ago were not, however, destined to perform as well. Many went bankrupt over the ensuing years, and the Dow Jones railroad average, rechristened the Dow Jones transportation average in 1970, ended the century up 3,730 percent, a gain one-seventh that of the industrials.
The stock market was a wild and largely unregulated place when the century began. In 1901, much of the nation watched in befuddlement as the price of Northern Pacific soared without apparent reason, then plunged. The rail line had been the subject of an unannounced takeover war, in which two powerful groups -- one led by J. P. Morgan and the other by Edward Harriman -- tried to secure control by buying shares in the open market. When the battle was over, speculators were ruined as losses on Northern Pacific shares forced the liquidation of other stocks, causing the entire stock market to plunge. "Disaster and Ruin in Falling Market," read the headline in The Times. "Panic Without A Parallel in Wall Street."
In those days, companies were free to give investors as much, or as little, information as they wished. There were no generally accepted accounting principles, so the profit figures that were issued were of questionable quality. Dividends -- real cash payments to shareholders -- were the principal measure of a company's soundness. That began to change in the late 1920's, as individual investors poured into stocks for the first time, and the lure of capital gains began to take hold. There was still relatively little regulation, and there were plenty of reports of "pools" that manipulated stock prices. Many investors concluded that they wanted to make money by trading with the pools, and reports that a pool was involved became a sure way to get a stock moving.
The 1929 crash ended that public infatuation with stocks. "Wall Street was a street of vanished hopes, of curiously silent apprehension and of a sort of paralyzed hypnosis yesterday," The Times reported on Oct. 30, 1929, after the worst day of the crash. "Men and women crowded the brokerage offices, even those who have been long since wiped out, and followed the figures on the tape. Little groups gathered here and there to discuss the falling prices in hushed and awed tones. They were participating in the making of financial history. It was the consensus of bankers and brokers alike that no such scenes will ever again be witnessed by this generation. To most of those who have been in the market it is all the more awe-inspiring because their financial history is limited to bull markets."
In an editorial, The Times was harshly critical of the "orgy of speculation" in stocks that preceded the crash and sneered at "those newly invented conceptions of finance" that had been used to justify such high stock prices. But it was otherwise sanguine, forecasting that the Federal Reserve would keep the economy on an even keel. It was wrong.
During and after the Great Depression that followed, the stock market became an object of scorn. The Securities and Exchange Commission was established with a mandate to prevent market manipulation, and the Fed was given the power to keep investors from borrowing too much money to buy stocks. Not, of course, that anyone wanted to do so. It became accepted wisdom that companies should pay far higher dividends on their stocks than they paid in interest on their bonds. After all, the shareholder needed to be compensated for the risk of another crash.
But stocks did gradually recover, and by the 1950's the public was showing a renewed interest. In 1954 the Dow rose above its 1929 high, and around the same time the dividend yield on stocks fell below the bond interest rate. Congress mounted an investigation, and the Senate Banking Committee called for more regulation in a report that saw signs of dangerous speculation. "When preoccupation with the stock market results in widespread distortion of perspective, the stock market may become a potential threat to the stability of the economy," warned the committee majority.
In fact, there was no such threat on the horizon. By 1966, the Dow was flirting with 1,000 -- although it could not quite manage a close above that level. (That came in 1972.) But even as the Dow churned in the late 1960's, investors flocked to initial public offerings, many of which doubled during the first day of trading. In a report dated January 1969, Merrill Lynch warned, rightly as it turned out, that there was "considerable risk" in buying such issues.
One measure of how that boom differed from the current one was reflected in that report, in which Merrill Lynch laid out its requirements for underwriting new issues: "We require that a company have substantial earnings, that its growth record extend over several years, that the company be important to its industry, and that the price to be paid for the shares be reasonable in relation to actual and projected earnings."
The final gasp of that love affair with stocks came in the early 1970's, with the "one-decision stocks," companies that institutional investors loaded up on because they were growing rapidly. It was held that such stocks need never be sold, because they would keep growing.
Then came the brutal bear market of 1973-74, in which the Dow fell 45 percent and many other stocks did worse. Inflation and interest rates were on the rise, and stocks seemed hopeless. "The Death of Equities" was proclaimed on the cover of Business Week in 1978. By 1982, the Dow was lower than it had been in 1966.
But by then, inflation was coming down and the descent of interest rates from record highs was starting. The stock market began to rise in August 1982, starting a bull market that continues to this day. The 1987 crash, which seemed epochal at the time, is now remembered as a great buying opportunity.
In the final year of the century, an initial public offering boom eclipsed anything that had been seen before. The best performers tended to be Internet companies with little in the way of operating history, and a lot in the way of hopes. The best performer of the group was the Internet Capital Group, which invests in other internet companies and has shown little in the way of revenue, and no profits, in its four-year history. Its shares ended the year at $170, or 28 times the price at which they were sold to investors in August. Merrill Lynch was the lead underwriter.
The Internet boom was a principal reason that the Nasdaq index rose 85.6 percent in 1999, by far the best annual performance ever for a major American index. For the decade, the Nasdaq was up 795 percent, more than twice as much as the Dow. With capital gains so bountiful, few investors are concerned about dividends.
As stock prices rose during the last 17 years, a new investment gospel gradually spread, holding that stocks are always the best long-term investment. If the previous stock market boom produced "one-decision stocks," this one has produced the "one-decision market," in which no long-term investor should ever get out of stocks.
The studies supporting that thesis tended to concentrate on American prices -- ignoring the much worse results in some other countries -- and they implicitly assumed that the American economy would continue to grow and prosper as it has in the past. In 1999, books appeared with forecasts that the Dow would soar to 36,000 or higher within a few years.
Peter L. Bernstein, a financial historian and author of "Against the Gods," a book exploring how investors and others have dealt with risk through the centuries, dismisses such projections. "They tell us that we know more about portfolio values 20 or 30 years from now than we know about what values will be tomorrow or next year," he said in a recent article. To him, that is ridiculous. To many investors today, it is a sure thing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C5)
 
Chart: "The Market of the Last 100 Years"
The Dow Jones industrials average plotted monthly. The index is shown on a logarithmic scale, which makes comparable percentage changes appear similar. Prices prior to Sept. 1916 adjusted to reflect revisions in the index.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Dow Jones)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MILLENNIUM (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ACCOUNTING (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



7 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Radioactive Waste and Unpaid Bills

BYLINE: By RUSSELL WORKING

DATELINE: VLADIVOSTOK, Russia

 BODY:
As Western governments began spending hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years to help Russia dispose of nuclear weapons and treat radioactive waste, Zvezda seemed like an ideal place to do some of the work.
Zvezda is a sprawling military shipyard, so it has the expertise to scrap submarines. The plant sits on the harbor in the town of Bolshoi Kamen on the Sea of Japan, where the Russian Navy had been dumping liquid radioactive waste. And it is in chronic need of cash: its workers, like millions across Russia, are owed months of wages. 
 But almost four years into a Japanese-financed project to build a liquid radioactive waste treatment facility at Zvezda, the work is still incomplete. An American contractor has complained of what it calls intentional delays to inflate the bills. It also is unclear how Russia even can afford to run the treatment site.
The project's troubles carry an added urgency, as Zvezda receives millions of dollars in United States Cooperative Threat Reduction funds -- part of the money Congress set aside to help Russia meet its treaty obligations to dismantle and destroy weapons of mass destruction. By 2001, the shipyard is scheduled to cut up 14 Delta- and Yankee-class submarines capable of launching long-range ballistic missiles.
Over the last year, American officials have expressed fears that delays in completing the waste-water treatment site could hurt American efforts to reduce nuclear weapons in Russia.
The waste-water treatment site is a sophisticated plant mounted on a 213-foot by 77-foot barge, capable of treating 1.8 million gallons a year. The Japanese agreed to finance the operation because they are fearful of nuclear waste being dumped into the sea they share with Russia.
McDermott International Inc., a New Orleans company, whose subsidiary, BWX Technologies, has been building the barge, told American consular officials in Vladivostok that its $25 million contract had run $8 million in the red because Zvezda was intentionally stalling in order to prolong the work.
"The more artificial the overruns, the less bang we will extinguish for our buck, if this tendency is replicated nationwide," Douglas Kent, then the ranking consular officer in Vladivostok, wrote in a report last February after conferring with McDermott executives.
Despite such worries, the American and Japanese governments have pressed ahead at Zvezda. Pentagon officials insist there are sufficient controls to prevent misuse of American dollars. The United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency has a contract with Zvezda requiring the shipyard to meet monthly targets, said Maj. Ron Alberto. "If they don't do the work, they don't get paid, and they have discrete, measurable tasks that they have to comply with," he said.
Zvezda is in a military town of 50,000 in the far eastern finger of Russia that lies between China, North Korea and the Sea of Japan. Bolshoi Kamen is classified as a closed city, where few foreigners may enter. Even Russians need special passes to visit.
Zvezda receives financing for a handful of submarine-destruction projects in addition to the barge. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency is paying the shipyard $8 million to chop up submarines that once aimed at the United States. Lockheed Martin Energy Technologies Inc. of Bethesda, Md., has a Defense Department contract to process low-level solid radioactive waste and the waste water that comes from washing items like radiation-contaminated worker clothing. (This water was once flushed untreated into the bay, foreign workers say.) It is also building a plant for storing the solid radioactive byproduct until the Russian government decides what to do with it. (Lockheed Martin won a $24 million contract both for work at Zvezda and a similar project near the port of Archangel, in northwestern Russia on the White Sea.)
Although Bolshoi Kamen has permitted about 25 foreigners connected to Zvezda projects to live in the town, Russian authorities have denied press requests to visit.
Such strictness is not unusual when the subject is nuclear waste in Russia. The Federal Security Service, the post-Soviet successor of the KGB, or secret police, is still appealing a Russian Navy court's decision to dismiss treason charges against Capt. Grigory Pasko, who first disclosed the dumping of liquid radioactive waste in the sea. And Federal Security Service agents raided the office of an oceanographer who was researching radiation levels at nearby Chazhma Bay, where a nuclear accident occurred in 1985.
The restricted entry to Bolshoi Kamen has angered some foreign contractors and officials. "Access to the site has been limited to the extent of interfering with work there," the United States commercial consul in Vladivostok, Richard Steffens, wrote in a 1999 report on the city. Though Zvezda is one of the biggest recipients of American investment in the Russian Far East, Mr. Steffens wrote he had been able to visit the city just once.
Limited access has not been the only matter to hinder progress. Mr. Kent wrote that Zvezda appeared to have intentionally slowed work, apparently because the destitute city benefited from the foreign spending in town and the 25 Russian workers directly employed on the project. The Russian Ministry of Economics, which oversees Zvezda, has exerted little authority over the project, Mr. Kent wrote.
"Despite frank and direct appeals from McDermott, the municipal administration seems not to get the message that the company is losing large amounts of money on this project, and has been soured on doing any other business in Russia," Mr. Kent wrote.
The Zvezda director, Valery Maslakov, denied requests for an interview. In a brief telephone conversation, Mr. Maslakov said he was not required to discuss the reasons for delays.
The Japanese have expressed disappointment with the delays but confidence that the barge will soon be operational.
Although McDermott announced in 1996 that the barge could be done in 10 months, a company spokesman, Pierre DeGruy, acknowledged in a telephone interview that the project had "some unexpected logistical problems that caused delays." Mr. DeGruy said such problems were not unusual.
While McDermott has sought governmental pressure to move Zvezda along, the shipyard's own workers have grown restive at times over wage delays. In October 1998, employees joined a Vladivostok demonstration of 5,000 unpaid workers who waved Communist banners and burned President Boris N. Yeltsin in effigy. During 1999, the mood has been more optimistic, although Zvezda still owes its workers wages for all of 1997, said Olga Skripko, leader of a trade union representing the factory's 3,000 workers.
Others have questioned why a facility that receives foreign-contract money cannot pay off wages that are now worth less than a quarter of their 1997 dollar value because of the ruble's depreciation. Ivan Rogovoi, a regional legislator, said he became so suspicious of salary delays last year that he called for an investigation of Zvezda. A prosecutor later examined the shipyard's records, Mr. Rogovoi recalled. Four days later, many workers received a large chunk of their backpay.
Desperation over unpaid wages apparently contributed to one Zvezda worker's involvement in a scheme to sell uranium, a local police investigation suggested. The worker was a part of a gang that stole the radioactive material and tried to sell it for $60,000 to undercover police agents. It is unclear where the uranium originated. Officials say there is no uranium at Zvezda; the reactors are removed from the submarines before they arrive.
Zvezda's failure to pay its bills also extends to other companies. Vadim Bratukhin, spokesman for the regional electricity provider, Dalenergo, said Zvezda owed the utility $1.3 million. While it is not uncommon for cash-short Russian factories to ignore electric bills -- particularly in the military sector, which receives uninterrupted power by law, the debts are striking in Zvezda's case. In October, the shipyard paid Dalenergo only $145.
"They are one of our worst debtors," Mr. Bratukhin said. "They make absolutely no effort to pay the debt."
Such debt, in turn, contributes to a vicious cycle within a destitute region, whose administration has forbidden Dalenergo from raising electric rates to cover rising coal costs. The company's unpaid power workers periodically declare hunger strikes for back wages.
Another apparent problem at Zvezda is that no one has decided what to do with a more tangible byproduct of submarine destruction than waste water: chunks of the submarines that are themselves contaminated with radioactivity.
Each submarine has between 8 and 10 compartments, and the section that housed the nuclear reactor and two adjacent sections are also radioactive, said Sergei Lishavsky, senior specialist with the Vladivostok office of the federal Committee for Protecting the Environment. The rest of the submarine can be sold for scrap, but these blocks are too big to be moved by train, and Zvezda lacks the technology to cut them up.
Mr. Lishavsky said the radioactive scrap was safely stored away from the Zvezda plant. He would not be more specific. "We'll have to take them to Nevada, because we don't know what to do with them, " he joked.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Russia shows location of Bolshoi Kamen: Bolshoi Kamen is a closed city, where few foreigners may enter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MDR (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (65%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (65%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (91%); 

COMPANY: MCDERMOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA; WASTE MATERIALS AND RECYCLING NUCLEAR WASTE (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



8 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1982 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Plays Catch-Up In Race for Hybrid Car;
With Fewer Subsidies, Japan Is Ahead

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 31

 BODY:
With hundreds of millions of dollars of private and federal research work behind it, the General Motors Precept, an experimental model to be introduced here on Jan. 9, is probably the most expensive single car ever built. Yet it is still a lot of car for the money.
In place of side-view mirrors, which cause a lot of wind resistance, it has tiny cameras, mounted on the front doors, that send images to the dashboard. Rather than the smooth, rounded contours commonly associated with aerodynamic design, carefully angled body panels are designed to give the six-passenger Precept far less wind resistance than a Corvette sports car. And instead of a gasoline engine, the car has two electric motors, batteries under the seats and a rear diesel engine to charge the batteries and provide additional power and range. 
 These features, which produce remarkable fuel economy of almost 80 miles a gallon, are expected to influence what Americans will drive early in this new century. But the Precept and similar experimental vehicles from Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler being built under the umbrella of the government-sponsored Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles face huge obstacles that raise serious questions about the costly partnership between Detroit and Washington.
For one thing, the Big Three have all focused on diesel-electric hybrid cars. Yet federal and state environmental regulators have just adopted new rules for tailpipe emissions that will make it very difficult after 2003 to sell automobiles with diesel engines. Meanwhile, Honda Motor and Toyota Motor, operating with much smaller government subsidies, have already begun mass production of small high-mileage cars that combine gasoline engines and electric motors, leaving Detroit scrambling to catch up.
Manufacturing costs for all hybrid cars, including the Japanese models, are steep, so selling them at competitive prices remains a money-losing proposition. Perhaps most daunting of all, there is little sign that Americans want high-mileage cars in an era of relatively low gasoline prices and rising national prosperity.
The combination has left Detroit executives alarmed by a new competitive threat from Japan, frustrated by what they see as conflicting strategies among government agencies and struggling to justify further investments in cars like the Precept. But auto industry leaders here say that despite the problems, they intend to continue pouring money into high-technology cars, mainly to protect themselves in case gasoline prices soar again someday.
"We'd better be prepared to deal with it," said Harry Pearce, G.M.'s vice chairman. "You don't revolutionize your industry overnight."
The biggest embarrassment for G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler is that Honda and Toyota have beaten them to the market for hybrids. The Clinton administration has given $1.4 billion over the last five years to national laboratories, universities, auto parts manufacturers and Detroit automakers to help in the building of a few experimental models. Yet Japanese automakers, who were excluded from the program, have been able to put working hybrids on sale first.
The Honda Insight, which went on sale on Dec. 15, starts at $19,295, and gets 61 miles to the gallon in the city and 70 on the highway. Toyota plans to start selling its bigger Prius next summer for a little over $20,000, and predicts that its car will approach a combined 50 miles to the gallon.
Honda and Toyota officials don't mind rubbing it in. "We always see our competitors talking about their projects as soon as we hit the market with a real product," said Robert Bienenfeld, Honda's manager of sales and marketing of alternative-fuel vehicles.
The Japanese government has provided a small subsidy for the cars. Japanese car buyers who choose the new-technology automobiles receive a $3,000 rebate from the government. The Clinton administration proposed a similar program in the United States last winter. It was combined with tax-cut proposals in Congress and never made it into law, but is expected to pass once G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler have cars that can use such subsidies.
While Honda and Toyota executives refuse to discuss their costs, auto analysts say that both automakers will be losing money on every car they sell. But with Honda planning to sell only 4,000 Insights in the United States next year and Toyota expecting to offer just 12,000 Prius cars in the 2001 model year, neither company's costs will be exorbitant.
Yet as Detroit executives have been quick to point out, the Insight and Prius fall far short of the roomy, high-performance sedans that G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler hope to produce someday. The Insight, for example, is essentially a two-seat, very lightweight aluminum car with a small gasoline engine that does most of the work. As in most hybrid cars, the engine shuts off when the vehicle stops; once the driver touches the accelerator, a small electric motor and modest batteries get the car moving again while the gasoline engine turns back on.
Toyota has taken a different approach with the Prius, which closely resembles a Corolla from the outside. Compared with the Insight, the electric motor and batteries provide a much greater proportion of the car's overall power. But the Prius, because it is heavier, manages to achieve only slightly better mileage than the smaller Chevrolet Metro. The Prius, in essence, is a compact car with fuel economy a little better than a subcompact's.
Despite these cars' shortcomings, Detroit automakers, particularly G.M., still feel pressure to match the Japanese entrants. G.M., which marketed the all-electric EV-1 with little success from 1996 to 1998, is already studying ways to introduce a small gasoline-electric hybrid vehicle, using its technical partnership with Toyota, Mr. Pearce acknowledged. While G.M. and Toyota officials refuse to elaborate, environmentalists say that the companies are working on a gasoline-electric car that would look like a sport utility vehicle and would probably be manufactured at their joint operation in Fremont, Calif.
But there are engineering limits to the fuel efficiency of gasoline engines, and automakers appear to be approaching those limits. So G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler have been working with the government on diesel-electric hybrids instead. Diesel engines can be up to 30 percent more efficient than gasoline engines. However, even though today's diesels are far cleaner and quieter than earlier versions, they may still run afoul of the new and unexpectedly tough state and federal air pollution regulations.
The auto industry's problems began a year ago, when the California Air Resources Board met to approve a staff proposal to require sport utility vehicles and other light trucks to meet the far more stringent air pollution standards for cars. One of the board members, who are political appointees, noted that the staff proposal did not change the rules on diesel-powered light trucks. Yet the board had voted the month before to classify diesel emissions as a toxic air contaminant. Automakers had been laying plans for years to build more sport utility vehicles with conventional diesel engines so as to meet Federal fuel economy rules.
After less than half an hour of discussion, and with no staff analysis, the board amended the staff's proposal to eliminate the agency's longstanding separate regulations for diesel-powered family vehicles. Even though diesels offer better fuel economy and produce lower quantities of gases associated with global warming, they will be subject to the same strict standards as gasoline-powered cars, beginning with the 2004 model year. Effectively, that will mean new cars with diesel engines will be banned from California.
"Fuel economy is strictly a federal area; we don't deal with it, we don't have the mandate to deal with it," Richard Varenchik, a spokesman for the board, said. Prodded by a national lobbying effort by environmentalists against pollution by sport utility vehicles, New York and Massachusetts are now moving to adopt California's emissions rules, including the diesel provisions.
President Clinton gave final approval last week to strict new federal regulations on tailpipe emissions that will also take effect with the 2004 model year. The federal rules are slightly less stringent than California's standards; Gary Guzy, the general counsel of the Environmental Protection Agency, said that with further research, it should be possible to develop diesel engines clean enough to comply with the least stringent category.
But automakers will only be allowed to sell a limited number of vehicles in that category, which they already plan to use for large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. As a result, automakers will face a choice between selling high-mileage, diesel-electric hybrid cars or selling large, high-profit sport utility vehicles and pickups.
Automakers once hoped that the Republicans who control Congress would rescue them from their environmental predicament, but that hope is evaporating like a puddle of spilled gasoline. Stung by environmentalists' television advertisements in New Hampshire criticizing air pollution in Texas, Gov. George W. Bush, a leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, said in a debate in New Hampshire in early December that he favored the federal air quality rules that President Clinton was about to approve. Two weeks later, Mr. Bush asked the Texas Natural Resources Commission to consider adopting California's auto emissions rules.
Even if an unexpected technological breakthrough allows automakers to address the emissions problems of diesel engines, a bigger question looms: How many Americans will want very high-mileage cars? New automobile buyers these days rank fuel economy down with the quality of seat fabrics and interior carpeting, behind two dozen other considerations, according to recent surveys by Auto Pacific, a market research firm in Santa Ana, Calif.
Americans pay so little attention to gasoline these days because it is so cheap, even after a run-up in prices over the last year. The United States has the lowest gasoline taxes of any large industrialized country. In Europe and Japan, where high taxes push the price to $4 or $5 a gallon, small cars are much more popular, which is why their citizens are expected to buy large numbers of hybrids long before Americans do.
Hybrid cars also have a few nuisances that may irritate Americans spoiled by the power of gasoline-powered cars. For instance, most models -- including the Precept, Insight and Prius -- have fuel-efficient manual transmissions, which are becoming almost extinct in the American auto market.
The hybrids also have less power to spare for accessories. The Prodigy, an experimental, diesel-electric car that Ford also plans to display at the North American International Auto show early in January where the G.M. car will be introduced, has an air-conditioning system that shuts down whenever the car stops. The car's electric motor is not strong enough to run the air-conditioning by itself.
Rescuing the occupants of hybrid vehicles after crashes could also prove tricky. While the hybrids meet Federal safety standards when crashed into concrete barriers, their batteries and high-voltage cables pose special risks for rescuers who must cut into vehicles to save trapped motorists.
The auto industry and federal officials say that they plan to continue working on all these problems, and will hope for breakthroughs in their research.
The United States still needs to keep working on high-technology cars, Bill Richardson, the energy secretary, said, because "getting a highly fuel-efficient car that can meet the demands of U.S. consumers in the market will reduce pollution and enhance our energy security."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: GENERAL MOTORS -- The Precept, above, G.M.'s experimental hybrid car, has door-mounted cameras, left, that replace rear-view mirrors.; FORD -- The Prodigy, left, which is also experimental and will be introduced this month, comes with an air-conditioning system that shuts down whenever the car stops. (pg. C1); The Honda Insight starts at $19,295, and gets 61 to 70 miles to the gallon. "We always see our competitors talking about their projects as soon as we hit the market with a real product," a Honda executive said.; Toyota plans to start selling its Prius next summer for a little over $20,000, and predicts that its hybrid car will approach a combined 50 miles to the gallon. It is larger than Honda's Insight. (pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); TYT (LSE) (74%); TM (NYSE) (74%); 7203 (TSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: JAPAN; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); EMISSIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



9 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Celebrating a Milestone for Freedom;
Black Americans Honor Anniversary of Proclamation to End Slavery

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
As people wake up this morning with the future on their minds, having left the 1900's for the 2000's, William Stallings will prepare to look back, 137 years to be exact.
He will make his way to the Greater Centennial Missionary Baptist Church in Mount Vernon, N.Y., take his seat among fellow parishioners, bob his head to African drumming, pull out a piece of paper and scribble notes as speaker after speaker sermonizes on a five-page yellowed document kept in an air-conditioned vault in the National Archives in Washington. 
 It is the Emancipation Proclamation, and Mr. Stallings and thousands of other black Americans will honor it as they have done virtually every year since it took effect on Jan. 1, 1863, declaring slaves in the South free -- if only symbolically -- and heightening momentum for the abolition of slavery two years later through the 13th Amendment.
It was the first time the federal government officially took action to end slavery. And for African-Americans across the country, especially those with roots in the South and memories of civil rights struggles, the anniversary of the proclamation gives New Year's Day, even this one that transcends hyperbole, a grander purpose.
"As an African-American, that was the document that gave us our freedom," said Mr. Stallings, 55, a social services case examiner who lives in Yonkers. "It was the greatest turning point in history in this country."
The tradition, which began several years ago at the church, has grown substantially, from a couple of hundred to several hundred, just as interest in slavery and the Civil War is surging with a proliferation of books and television programs.
The commemorations, commonly called Emancipation Day or Jubilee Day, are usually organized by churches, which have long been the spiritual and social nexuses of black communities, often in conjunction with local chapters of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Among the largest is one at the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. preached. The N.A.A.C.P. chapter in Williamsbridge, the Bronx, will sponsor a more modest commemoration, with an expected turnout of 200 people, at the Refuge Temple, 716 East 233rd Street.
"They represent the real Fourth of July or Independence Day for African-Americans," said Nelson B. Rivers III, the director of local chapters at the rights group's national headquarters. "The first one, July 4, 1776, did not apply to us."
Historians cast the commemorations in the context of a constant yearning among black Americans for a special day to recognize and reflect on the past. The federal holiday honoring Dr. King, first celebrated on Jan. 20, 1986, satisfied that thirst to an extent, but emancipation celebrations, which take place on various dates of the calendar, reflect a desire for an expressly African-American holiday.
Popular dates include Sept. 22, when President Lincoln issued a preliminary proclamation that served 100 days' notice of the actual signing. Others have adopted Juneteenth, a Texas state holiday celebrated on June 19 in honor of the day in 1865 when, it is said, slaves there finally received news of the proclamation.
But the Jan. 1 celebrations are the most widespread, and are particularly popular in the South, said William H. Wiggins Jr., a professor at Indiana University who wrote a book on freedom celebrations, "O Freedom! Afro-American Emancipation Celebrations" (The University of Tennessee Press, 1987).
"This is the granddaddy of them all," he said.
As they do now, churches played a role on Jan. 1, 1863, in recognizing the importance of the event, he said. The text of the proclamation sped across telegraph wires in the evening, after Lincoln had signed it with a trembling hand, and reached a church in Boston where Frederick Douglass waited among a crowd of people gathered for "emancipation watch" services. He immediately read the proclamation and pandemonium ensued, according to the historian John Hope Franklin.
Since then, Dr. Wiggins said, the reading of the proclamation, often in a dramatic and emotional cadence, has been a central part of the celebrations, which took hold especially in the Southeast, where slavery was most entrenched. Black Southerners who moved North after the war and in the middle of the 1900's carried the tradition with them.
The historical nuances of Lincoln's act are sometimes lost, Dr. Wiggins said. The emancipation did not immediately free a single slave. It applied only to slaves in rebellious states and exempted parts of the Confederacy that had come under Northern control.
Although historians say Lincoln personally opposed slavery, they often note his political and military motives in issuing the proclamation, which was made as the Union was suffering losses and was looking for a way to bolster its cause and crush Southern morale.
By attacking the institution considered a bedrock of the Confederacy, the proclamation made the war seem less like a rebellion and more like a war of liberation. It opened the way for black men to serve in the Union Army and Navy, and by the end of war, nearly 200,000 had served under the Union flag.
And so New Year's Day for the likes of the Rev. Freddie Brunswick of the tiny Salem Missionary Baptist Church in Springfield Gardens, Queens, means a time to pause and reflect on such events and their resonance.
A choir will sing Negro spirituals. A young member of the congregation of 150 worshipers will read the proclamation. Mr. Brunswick will make a speech.
"When we lose the past, we are subject to make the same mistakes again," his speech will pronounce.
As it has for dozens of years, the Brooklyn Baptist ministers' conference will hold a commemoration at one of its member churches, the Brownsville Community Baptist Church.
A few days before, the Rev. Dr. Charles H. Ancrum of Timothy Baptist Church in Bushwick, who is president of the conference, reflected on the importance of the proclamation.
"Politically we have not arrived," Dr. Ancrum said. "We have Congress people, but in comparison to whites, we are still underrepresented. We have not arrived in terms of equality of education and economically. In almost every area we are underrepresented."
Like others involved in the commemorations, he said he had observed a growth in attendance, fed by people's desire to reconnect with their past or to reaffirm it. But others are troubled that as with Sunday services, the commemorations still do not draw large numbers of young people.
That bodes ill for the future of marking such historical occasions, said the Rev. Dr. Elliott Cuff of Mount Ararat Missionary Baptist Church in Ocean Hill-Brownsville, who plans to attend the service of the ministers' conference.
"A lot of 'race days' have fallen on hard times in postmodernity," Dr. Cuff said. "King's birthday, as we move into the next millennium, will probably go the way of the rest of the holidays, a day to rest and shop. That's unfortunate. I think it is vitally important because these are marks in the sand for what made America what it is today."
Such sentiments drew Rodney Olden to the Greater Centennial service in Mount Vernon a decade ago.
He found it an ideal way to make his children, now in their 20's and 30's and on their own, more aware of the civil rights struggle.
"We wanted to keep track of our heritage," Mr. Olden said.
Mr. Stallings, too, sees the service as a way to connect with history, especially his days as a college student in the early 1960's at the all-black Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. He takes notes at the service to later reflect on what was said and how it relates to history.
"I marched with Dr. King in South Carolina and Charleston and participated in at least 50 marches during the summer of 1962 and '63," Mr. Stallings said. "I remember sitting on the back of a bus and things we could not do."
Today, he said, he need only look at Mount Vernon to find reminders of the continuing struggle for equity.
"We have a dichotomy going on," he said. "On the northern side, people are doing well, we have the movers and shakers in the community with their corporate jobs and jobs in the government. And then we have the masses on the other side, who have menial or average jobs and have difficulty making ends meet. We have those kinds of dichotomies, and we have to find a way to deal with it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: When President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation on Jan. 1, 1863, the Union was trying to find a way to bolster its cause and crush Southern morale. (Archive Photos); The Rev. Dr. Elliott Cuff, left, worries about the neglect of black history. The Rev. Dr. Charles H. Ancrum, center, leads the Brooklyn Baptist ministers' conference, which is honoring the Emancipation Proclamation. With them at Bethany Baptist Church in Brooklyn is the Rev. Dr. F. D. Waddell. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B4);
Copy of the Emancipation Proclamation -- Whereas on the twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, a proclamation was issued by the President of the United States, containing, among other things, to wit: "That on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any state or designated part of a state, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward, forever free..." (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANNIVERSARIES (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); SLAVERY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); HISTORY (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RELIGION (72%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



10 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Before Stocks Go Public, Some Will Go to Charity

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
When the newly rich get richer, shouldn't others get richer, too? That is the idea behind a new form of fund-raising that has helped one local nonprofit group raise hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Andrew Rasiej, the president of the nonprofit group, known as Mouse, for Making Opportunities for Upgrading Schools and Education, has helped to pioneer a fund-raising approach of soliciting stock, or the chance to buy it, from startup companies at bargain prices before the stocks go public. After he received some of this so-called "directed stock" as a personal gift, he wondered if such shares could go to organizations working to improve the community. The answer was yes. 
 Mr. Rasiej, 41, a former nightclub owner who pursues what he calls "entrepreneurial philanthropy," directs a a group of volunteers who help public schools connect to the Internet and use computer technology. Through contacts with Internet startup companies, Mouse was given an option to buy 20,000 shares of one company's directed stock at a special price, and was given 5,000 shares by another company before its initial public offering.
While startup companies have often given employees' relatives and friends an opportunity to buy stock at bargain prices, Mouse has been at the forefront of a practice that not only benefits nonprofit organizations, but gives new companies a means to contribute before they become profitable.
Mouse has held on to 10,000 directed shares that it received from Star Media Network, an Internet portal company, on which it has made a profit, on paper, of more than $300,000.
Negotiations are under way with four or five other new companies that could donate directed shares.
The nonprofit agency's board must approve stock purchases, even at advantageous prices, because of the risk that the stock could drop below its initial offering price. So far, Mouse's board has not lost money on any stock, and it has made enough in profits to create an endowment worth more than $500,000. The earnings of that pool of capital finance the organization's work in schools.
Mr. Rasiej believes that granting rights to buy directed stock to organizations like Mouse solves a dilemma for startup companies, which usually need about three years to establish themselves enough to make charitable donations.
"It's amazing how, with young people who make a ton of money thinking outside the box," he said, "when you ask them to give money, they default."
Tom Evslin is chairman and chief executive of ITXC, an Internet telephone-service wholesaler in Princeton, N.J., that gave 10,000 shares of directed stock to Mouse before the company went public in September. Mouse quickly sold it, for a profit of $150,000.
"It's nice to think that you've got this leverage" to make contributions, Mr. Evslin said, adding that, traditionally, companies have been reluctant to make charitable donations before they have made a profit.
Gifts of directed shares help solve that problem, while supporting Mouse's work in creating a more technologically literate work force, he said.
The assignment of restricted shares to charities is a donation because there are a finite number of such shares. Those that are given away reduce the profit employees and owners stand to reap.
Gene DeRose, chairman and chief executive of Jupiter Communications, a market research firm, gave 5,000 shares of his stock to Mouse, a gift worth more than $150,000 as of Friday. Jupiter employees have also volunteered to help with Mouse's projects.
"It's been incredible for me to watch it unfold and grow," Mr. De Rose said of Mouse. "I've always been fixated on how some of the skills and assets that the new media had can be brought to bear" to help the community.
Other nonprofit agencies are also trying to use the phenomenal growth of Internet companies to finance their operations. The Community Foundation Silicon Valley has been given many directed shares, and the right to buy others at insider prices, by several Internet companies.
The online auction service e-Bay donated 107,000 shares to the foundation, which gives grants to improve education, housing and neighborhoods in the area. The foundation kept some of those shares, which it received in June 1998, and sold others. The value of what it kept and the reinvestment of what it sold is now more than $40 million, said Birgit Fink-Jensen, the foundation's communications director.
In Menlo Park, Calif., the Entrepreneurs' Foundation asks high-tech companies to encourage giving. Participating companies join the foundation and donate stock options to charity before they go public.
Before its initial public offering, one company, Calico Commerce, donated about $40,000 in options to Habitat for Humanity, said Patty Burness, the foundation's executive director. So far, 58 companies have joined the foundation, she added.
At Microsoft, where there is no shortage of young people who have newly acquired wealth, the Big Gift Club helps employees create a giving plan that reflects the increasing value of their stock. Members of the club agree to make a donation to their favorite charity each time Microsoft stock goes up 10 points. The co-founder of the club, Aaron Contorer, 32, said Microsoft employees have donated about $1 million to charities since he and his wife, Rachael Contorer, 33, began the club three years ago.
Mr. Contorer thought the Mouse plan was a wise way to tap into the windfalls that are common in a bullish economy through public offerings, stock options and bonuses.
"When an event occurs where you earn some extra money, that's a great time to stop and think about giving money to a charity," he said. "When would be better to give some extra money?"
Mr. Rasiej plans to make similar stock donations, if his own company, Digitalclubnetwork, goes public.
Since the venture capitalists who invested in his firm are also contributors to Mouse, he is sure that "if and when we go public, I'm not going to have trouble convincing them to use our public offering to create some social benefit."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jaylyn Morris, left, working with Julie Saltzman, a Mouse computer volunteer, at Leadership Institute, a high school in Manhattan. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOUSE FOR MAKING OPPORTUNITIES FOR UPGRADING SCHOOLS&EDUCATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOUSE FOR MAKING OPPORTUNITIES FOR UPGRADING SCHOOLS&EDUCATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); STARTUPS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



11 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Russian Stocks Leap After Yeltsin Steps Aside
Boris N. Yeltsin's surprise resignation drove Russian stock prices up sharply, reflecting optimism that the acting president, Vladimir V. Putin, will revive stalled economic reforms. The Russian Trading System stock index rose 18 percent, its biggest one-day increase since July 14, 1998. 
 Russian stocks traded in the United States rallied as well, as did the Templeton Russia Fund, a mutual fund. Page A19.
 
Bond Prices Close Lower
Bond prices ended the year lower, reversing a two-day gain that analysts labeled an aberration from the bond market's yearlong slump. The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 24/32, to 95 12/32. The bond's yield rose to 6.48 percent from 6.42 percent. C5.
 
Leading Tax Lawyer Named in Fraud
A Tax Court judge has ruled that Burton W. Kanter was "the architect" of a long-running kickback scheme in which millions of dollars were siphoned from funds managed by the Prudential and Travelers insurance companies. Mr. Kanter said he would appeal. C2.
 
Global Crossing Shares Are Sold
U S West said it sold 24 million Global Crossing shares, valued at $1.15 billion. U S West bought the shares before canceling its planned merger with Global Crossing, which is building a worldwide phone and data network. C4.
 
Waste Merger Called Overpriced
Waste Management, the nation's biggest hauler of trash, contends in a lawsuit that it overpaid in its $1.15 billion purchase of Eastern Environmental Services last year because Eastern's chairman overstated its profits. The suit seeks nearly $600 million in damages. C6.
 
Malaysia Defers Share Dispute
Malaysia said it had extended by six months a deadline for resolving an impasse on $3.8 billion worth of Malaysian stocks frozen on a Singapore exchange. Suspension of trading in the shares was among economic measures adopted by Mahathir Mohamad, Malaysia's prime minister, in September 1998, and the two sides have since clashed over how to return the equities to the Malaysian marketplace. C4.
 
Some Markets Closed
Most overseas stock and financial markets were closed yesterday for New Year's Eve. In the United States, commmodity markets were closed, and the stock market and Treasury market closed early.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11497.12 up 44.26
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.48% up 0.06
The euro -- $1.009 up 0.002
The dollar -- 102.27 yen down 0.23
 
Chart: "Out With the Old"
Some companies' names will be outdated with the arrival of the new year. However, some companies with century in their names have opted not to change them and thus preserve their brand recognition.
 
SOME COMPANIES THAT CHANGED
Gateway
Formerly: Gateway 2000
 
21st Century Insurance Group
20th Century Insurance Company
 
American Century
Twentieth Century Investors
 
Century Foundation
Twentieth Century Fund
 
SOME THAT DID NOT
Twentieth Century Fox
Century 21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (54%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (54%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (54%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (54%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (54%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (54%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (54%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (59%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (59%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOND MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); LITIGATION (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSURANCE (73%); DAMAGES (73%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (72%); LAWYERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX COURTS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); JUDGES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



12 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Groups Back Use Of Park by Mets Farm Team

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

 BODY:
A group of Brooklyn community groups that sued to stop a minor league Mets team from moving into a planned ballpark in Flatbush has dropped its opposition to the plan, now that the city has promised to renovate a park where the team would play.
But the Brooklyn borough president, Howard Golden, is the stumbling block to an agreement to put the team in the Parade Grounds, which is adjacent to Prospect Park. Mr. Golden, an opponent of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, wants a higher caliber ball club than the Mets have offered. 
 In November, a coalition of soccer parents and community advocates filed suit along with Mr. Golden and marched to City Hall to condemn Mr. Giuliani's plan to build a temporary stadium in the Parade Grounds, which they said would take away their children's playing spaces.
But the coalition, which includes many of Mr. Giuliani's critics, has switched sides. Some members gathered at the park on Thursday to pressure Mr. Golden to endorse the $12 million overhaul plan.
"The Parade Grounds have been in terrible shape for 30 years," said Ellen Shea, a plaintiff in the lawsuit whose two daughters play soccer games in the park on weekends. "I've picked up enough broken glass and dead rats to last a lifetime. Howard Golden has to be farsighted enough to realize this is the only way the Parade Grounds are going to get fixed up."
The deal to fix the park will fall apart if Mr. Golden does not also agree to drop his suit, said Michael G. Carey, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. The city must settle the two suits by next week to have time to prepare the park for the minor league season in June, Mr. Carey said.
Mr. Golden's suit demands that the city follow a formal land use review to win approval for the stadium. The city and the Mets have said that if they are forced to do a review, which could take at least six months, they will have to find a new site.
During negotiations, the neighborhood groups and the city agreed on a deal to renovate the entire Parade Grounds, shrink the size of the stadium to 2,500 seats from 4,500 and reduce the amount of parking, in return for allowing the Mets to use the park for up to two years.
Greg Brooks, Mr. Golden's chief of staff, said that Mr. Giuliani was wrong to link the repair of the Parade Grounds to the minor league team.
"Everyone has said we want the Parade Grounds restored," Mr. Brooks said. "Very few have said we really need the Mets."
But Mr. Carey said bringing in the Mets provided a pool of money to renovate the Parade Grounds that would not otherwise be available.
"The fact is the Parade Grounds have been neglected for many, many years," he said, "and what we have here is a program to allow them to be restored."
Last year, Mr. Giuliani brokered a deal to bring a Class A Yankees affiliate to Staten Island and a Mets affiliate to Brooklyn. Mr. Golden has long argued that Brooklyn can support, and deserves, more than a short-season Class A team, the lowest rung of professional baseball. But the Mets and Yankees fear that more advanced teams would siphon fans from big league games.
Mr. Golden also wants the city to begin building an amateur athletic arena, to be called Sportsplex, next to the Coney Island stadium that is to become the permanent home of the minor league Mets. Sportsplex supporters fear that once the permanent stadium is complete, the city will be unwilling to build the arena next door, on what is now intended to be the Mets' parking lot.
City Councilman Stephen DiBrienza said the city should negotiate with Mr. Golden and offer to let work on the Sportsplex begin. But Councilwoman Una S. T. Clarke said Mr. Golden should not stop the renovation.
"The borough president should not hold the Parade Grounds as the only bargaining chip," Ms. Clarke said.
For now, Mr. Golden's aides insist they will not settle for anything less than a formal review. And Mr. Carey said the only offer on the table was the Parade Grounds restoration, not Sportsplex.
Members of the coalition who met at the Parade Grounds on Thursday said Mr. Golden should take the city offer, declare victory and forget about luring another team to Brooklyn.
"It's not going to happen, we are not going to get a bigger team," said Roy E. Landsmark, a member of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, the advocacy group leading the coalition. "My concern is for the kids and the park. It's about what the community wants, not what Mr. Golden wants."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map: A new plan would let a Mets team use an upgraded Parade Grounds. Map shows Brooklynm highlighting Parade Grounds. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); SOCCER (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MAYORS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



13 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: YELTSIN RESIGNS: THE ECONOMY;
Heartened Investors Give Stock Market a Lift

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 31

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin's resignation today drove Russian stocks to their highest levels since the 1998 economic collapse, reflecting hope among investors that the acting president, Vladimir V. Putin, would revive stalled economic reforms.
The Russian Trading System stock index, the main stock market barometer in the country, rose 18 percent to 177.71. The increase was the greatest one-day jump since July 14, 1998, when the International Monetary Fund agreed to lend Russia $22.8 billion. 
 But a month later, the Russian economy collapsed. Since then, the market had languished, with periodic rallies occurring on very low volumes.
Russian stocks traded in the United States rallied today as well. Shares of the cellular provider Vimpel Communications, the first Russian company to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, rose 24.2 percent to $41. The Templeton Russia Fund, a mutual fund that invests primarily in Russian companies, rose 35 percent to $19.9375.
Golden Telecom, a Russian telecommunications and Internet company traded on the Nasdaq market, rose 164 percent to $32.
Shares rose on optimism that President Yeltsin's surprise resignation would pave the way for financial reforms.
The International Monetary Fund said the resignation would not change its relationship with Russia. "We are not into the political side of things," said Stanley Fischer, the deputy managing director of the Washington-based agency.
Although Mr. Yeltsin initiated the changes that have given Russia the beginnings of a market economy, little progress has been made in the last few years. Mr. Yeltsin has either been too ill or too preoccupied with political intrigues to forcefully push reforms through Parliament.
The hope among investors now is that Mr. Putin, who is younger and apparently more decisive, will take up reforms that have been stalled or shelved. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIP (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: VIMPELCOM LTD (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



14 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2780 words

HEADLINE: 1/1/00: FROM BALI TO BROADWAY;
A Glittering Party For Times Square

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Two thousand years after Christ's obscure birth in a dusty town in Judea, the world's six billion people -- most of them non-Christian and many of them preoccupied with terrorism, computers, diets, bank accounts, politics and the perils of the future -- rode their turning blue planet across time's invisible line today and, by common consent, looked into the dawn of a new millennium.
What they saw first was a party. It was garish, glittering and global, and millions, setting religious considerations and personal concerns aside, joined in the festivities to celebrate the conjunction of a new year, a new century and a new thousand-year cycle of history. They also put aside the inconvenient fact that the millennium, technically, is still a year off. 
 It hardly mattered. In New York's Times Square and across the United States, in Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, in cities and towns all over the world, bells pealed, crowds shrieked and surged, skyrockets soared into the night, fireworks burst into supernovas, "Auld Lang Syne" rang out, lights pulsed, loved ones and friends embraced, and the music and Champagne flowed.
On a rainbow day whose moods ran the spectrum from tensions and prayers to euphoria and irresistible hyperbole, what most were calling Christianity's Third Millennium arrived in 24 stages as the earth revolved through the time zones and midnight elapsed again and again in an around-the-clock, around-the-world series of golden moments that began at the international date line in the Pacific and raced westward across Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas.
In New York, a vast crowd of revelers -- the guesses ran as high as an improbable two million -- packed Times Square and much of Midtown Manhattan to watch the biggest public event ever held in the city -- a 26-hour, $7 million marathon of music, fireworks, confetti and deafening voices culminating as a 1,070-pound crystal ball descended at midnight, while the police sweated out an enormous potential for trouble.
And there were lavish celebrations in Washington, London, Paris, Rome, Berlin, Jerusalem, Moscow, Cape Town, New Delhi, Shanghai, Beijing, Tokyo, Mexico City, Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires and hundreds of other cities. There were parties, concerts, dances, torchlight parades and televised extravaganzas that brought the worldwide show to billions more at home and to the crowds in Times Square over giant video screens -- a case of celebrators watching celebrators.
To a Martian earthwatcher (tuning in with delicate ear and Cycloptic eye), it might have appeared that the inhabitants of the third world from the Sun had suddenly lost their senses or gone to war again. But it was only humanity on the threshold of a new age, exercising its primal urge to celebrate.
There had been an avalanche of happy millennial overkill in recent days -- claims of the last-game, last-meal, first-baby kind -- and yesterday it was the turn of world leaders in government, religion, science and other fields, who spoke of the millennium's meaning in more serious tones.
"Today, we celebrate more than the changing of the calendar," President Clinton, extending millennium greetings to the world, said in an address to diplomats and children from 100 nations. "We celebrate the opportunity we have to make this a true changing of the times, a gateway to greater peace and freedom, to prosperity and harmony."
In Moscow, Boris Yeltsin, who has been plagued with heart and other problems for most of his eight years as Russia's president, unexpectedly announced his resignation. "Russia must enter the next millennium with new politicians, with new personalities and with new smart, strong and energetic people, " he said. "And we who have been in power for many years must go."
At the Vatican, Pope John Paul II, fulfilling his dream to lead the Roman Catholic Church across the threshold of 2000, gave his blessing to a vast crowd in St. Peter's Square, reiterated his calls for an end to war and poverty, and thanked God for "the events of this year, this century and this millennium."
There were millions around the world who had no reason to be festive, people like Tom Nganga, 40, who lives in Kangemi, a vast slum of Nairobi, Kenya. "We as Kenyans and people of Kangemi are very, very angry as we celebrate this millennium," he said. "People are very poor. People have nothing to eat. We have nothing to celebrate."
While the millennium celebrations drew millions, there were relatively few casualties. In the Philippines, two people were killed by stray gunfire and a 5-year-old boy died after a firecracker exploded in his face. At least 200 other Filipinos were injured by fireworks. In Paris, 70 people were hurt in crowds.
After years of concern over Y2K computer problems that had cost billions of dollars to fix, there were no immediate reports of computer-related disasters anywhere in the world, no plane crashes, major power failures, nuclear plant shutdowns or collapses of banking, business, government or health care systems.
But elevators, intercity trains and subways in many American cities and in other countries as well were halted briefly over the witching hour, and some airlines canceled flights for the day, just to be safe. Many airports were all but deserted, with wary travelers staying put. Experts said it might take days for some computer problems to develop, in part because many businesses and government agencies were closed for the holiday weekend.
There had also been fears that terrorists, publicity seekers or the insane might set off explosions or mount chemical or biological attacks as millions gathered to celebrate, while vast audiences watched on television. No specific threats had been reported, although some suspects had been seized recently. Still, there were no immediate reports of trouble, and law enforcement authorities seemed ready for almost anything.
The millennium, an idea with overtones ranging from Biblical to commercial, had swelled recently into a coercive miniculture as the countdown ticked away and a flood of books, articles, television specials and studied commentaries by academic, political and religious leaders reflected upon the last thousand years of human achievements and missteps, and speculated on the next thousand.
Purists still insist that the millennium will not start until Jan. 1, 2001. The calendar, at best, is arbitrary. There were problems from ancient times based on inaccuracies in measuring the year's duration and its uneven division into days, weeks and months. By 1582, the spring equinox was 10 days early, and the days were dropped when the Gregorian Calendar replaced the old Julian version. While Pope Gregory's calendar uses the birth of Christ in 1 B.C. as a starting date, many scholars now suggest that the year was probably closer to 4 B.C.
In any case, as Voltaire noted, history is the lie that historians agree upon, and the tide of popular opinion has swept nearly everyone along. And with the climax of celebrations, and especially when the nines rolled into zeros at midnight and humanity went ballistic, purists' talk of technicalities was the last thing anyone wanted to hear.
For doomsayers who had prophecied conflagrations, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and other end-of-the-world scenarios (and kept a weather eye out for U.F.O. rescue ships), the new millennium was something of a nonevent, although the anxiety prompted by all the wild predictions of chaos was real enough.
The Book of Revelations, Chapter 20, speaks of a resurrection of the dead and a Judgment Day, of sinners cast into a lake of fire and Christ reigning for a thousand years. But if it was not the Second Coming of Jesus as foretold in the Bible, there was still a year to go, or this was the wrong millennium.
And if, as some said, even the idea of a Third Christian Millennium was a Western conceit in a world where Christians are a minority, and one that overlooked other calendars calling this 1420 (Muslim) or 5760 (Jewish), it was also true that the world had long ago come by economic and social necessity to agree upon the Western calendar for trade, travel and other common purposes.
The millennium, if nothing else, was a celebration of history, marking human survival after a deadly century of wars, genocide and revolution that saw the end of colonialism, fascism and communism, as well as the achievements of the past thousand years -- printing and widespread literacy; the exploration of the last frontiers on earth; the first ventures into outer space, the inner mind and the microscopic universe, and the flowering of democratic government, and of art, literature, science, technology and communications into undreamed eminences.
The world on this Millennium Day was still beset with terrible problems -- with grinding poverty that afflicted a third of its 6 billion inhabitants, with ethnic and national strife, with the continuing curse of racial and religious bigotries, and with the exclusion of countless millions from adequate health care, education, jobs and even such basic needs as shelter and clean water, not to mention freedoms of speech and political association.
But with a few exceptions -- notably threats of terrorism and limited wars in the Balkans, Chechnya and other regions -- it was a world largely at peace, with the apocalyptic threat of nuclear annihilation receding and new understandings growing between old enemies in the Middle East, Ireland, South Africa and other long-troubled areas.
And it was a world on the threshold of a new era -- one that offered visions of astounding strides in science and technology and seemed to hold out anew the ancient promises of universal peace and prosperity, although the only certainty seemed to be that the world a thousand years from now would be unrecognizable.
As Dec. 31, 1999, gave way to Jan. 1, 2000, in each time zone at midnight, with atomic clocks marking it to a millisecond, celebrants went ecstatic. It began in Fiji and the Kiribati and Marshall Islands in the Western Pacific (it was 7 a.m., E.S.T. yesterday) and moved westward, hour by hour, as the earth turned and 23 more midnights fell across Australia, Asia, Europe, Africa, the Americas and back across the Pacific, ending in Samoa at 6 a.m., E.S.T. today.
Islanders in Kiribati welcomed the millennium with the mournful sounds of a conch shell and with traditional chants and dancing on the beach of a normally uninhabited coral atoll, dubbed Millennium Island.
In Japan, which has absorbed many of the trappings of the Western world while preserving its own cultural and religious traditions, bells tolled in a Buddhist ritual to dispel evil spirits as thousands flocked to temples and shrines. In Tokyo, the first of the world's major cities to mark the new year, people went to parties and crowds swarmed to bayside events, including rock concerts and lavish fireworks.
In China, torchbearers in Imperial-era costumes lighted signal fires on the watch towers of the Great Wall, which snakes 3,000 miles from the Gobi Desert to the North China Sea, and President Jiang Zemin lighted an eternal flame to greet the new millennium and pledged a "great rejuvenation" by reuniting with Taiwan. Over Hong Kong Harbor there were brilliant fireworks displays, and parties abounded, a prelude to the Chinese new year, the Year of the Dragon, which starts Feb. 5.
The festivities for most of India's one billion people were muted by comparison with those in wealthier nations, but hundreds of thousands danced, drank and ate at open-air stalls in New Delhi and partygoers were out in force in other major cities, celebrating the peaceful end of an eight-day hostage crisis aboard an Indian Airlines hours before midnight.
Iran and its Persian Gulf neighbors largely ignored the new millennium, which fell during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, a time for prayer and reflection.
In Israel, where religious tension is high at the best of times, security was heavy as three religions and some doomsday cultists marked the occasion, each in its own way. It was especially tight on Jerusalem's Mount of Olives, where Christian fundamentalists had camped to witness the end of the world, and at the Old City's Temple Mount, with sites sacred to Muslims and Jews.
On the last New Year's Eve of the Christian millennium, observant Jews ushered in the sabbath, as they do every Friday, and many went to pray at the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site, while 400,000 Muslims flocked to the al-Aqsa Mosque on the Temple Mount to mark the last Friday of prayer and fasting in the holy month of Ramadan.
In Paris, with new lighting on buildings, boulevards and bridges over the Seine twinkling like the bonfires of a great Medieval encampment, people packed the Champs-Elysees from the Tuileries to the Arc de Triomphe as a digital clock at the Eiffel Tower counted down -- overcoming an old-fashioned glitch that shut it down five hours before midnight -- and announced the millennium in a burst of 20,000 electronic flashes.
In London, two million people lined the Thames for a spectacular fireworks show, while Queen Elizabeth, Prime Minister Tony Blair and other dignitaries gathered under the 20-acre Millennium Dome, a flying-saucer-like colossus at Longitude Zero in Greenwich, to mark the transition while the bells of St. Paul's and Westminster and churches across Britain pealed. Huge street parties were held in hundreds of Britain's cities.
In Egypt, floodlights, lasers and fireworks illuminated the ancient pyramids at Giza.
Elsewhere, there were torchlight parades in the streets of Stockholm; fireworks and singing by massed choirs in Reykjavik, Iceland, and Helsinki, Finland; concerts and a ball at the opera house in Tallinn, Estonia; enormous street parties in Edinburgh, Scotland, and a Millennium Ball at the Catherine Palace in St. Petersburg, Russia.
In New York, it was a day to remember. The centerpiece was the spectacle billed as "Times Square 2000: the Global Celebration at the Crossroads of the World." Worried authorities had closed 50 blocks of Midtown to traffic, banned alcohol in open containers and flooded the area with 8,000 officers just in case. All vehicles were towed away as a precaution against car bombs.
Throughout the city, all 37,000 police officers were on duty, and there was plenty for them to do. The Times Square celebration was only one of 329 public events in the city, the biggest of those others were at Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn, at Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens, at the Bronx Zoo and in Central Park and Bryant Park in Manhattan.
The celebration in Times Square went off as planned with all-day, all-night pulsing music and cacaphonous entertainments by 1,000 musicians, actors, dancers, puppeteers and other performers working from a stage on Seventh Avenue between 45th and 46th Streets.
Broadway, curving like a dancer's leg, was packed from 42d Street to Central Park, along with most of the sidestreets between the Avenue of the Americas and Eighth Avenue. The old wickedness of Times Square was missing, but for most in the crowd it was an adventure just to be jostling for happiness at the intersection of past and future.
The party was set to run all day and night, from 6 a.m. yesterday to 8 a.m. today, and thousands showed up early to stake claims near ground zero. By the time the sun went down, the crowds were already gigantic. They came in shoals from the suburbs, from across the nation and from countless places abroad, and they swept into the vast clogged carnival, determined to experience the exotic and illusory evening.
They were in a euphoric mood, capped and scarved and padded like armadillos against the cold. They watched twilight print the sky with darkness, and the blue night city come to life, glittering like a tiara. By midevening, much of midtown was seized up in human gridlock. Laser lights slid up the skyscrapers and washed over the writhing mass of Lilliputian figures below.
The crowds were squeezed into police-barrier pens to create lanes for emergency vehicles, and many had to watch events on giant video screens. The closer to One Times Square, where the ball descended, the more bleary the crowd looked, many having stood their ground for a day and a half. A stench arose from a layer of garbage underfoot.
The tradition of celebrants watching others celebrate was continued on a global scale. Live video feeds from festivities around the world were pumped into Times Square, and the scenes there were beamed by 45 networks out to a worldwide audience of a billion people or more.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: BIG NUMBERS, SQUARED -- Estimates of the crowd in Times Square ran to an improbable two million. Regardless, a huge mass of people greeted 2000. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); ONCE IN A LIFETIME -- At the stroke of midnight, there were fireworks, brilliant lights and cacophony. There was also a big celebration in Times Square. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A6); TIMES SQUARE -- Up to two million people packed midtown Manhattan for a 26-hour marathon of music, fireworks and confetti. Events around the world, Pages A2-10. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); PARIS -- An explosion of colors at the Eiffel Tower. (Associated Press); BALI -- Romance blossoms in bubbles at a disco. (Associated Press); MOSCOW -- A lighted sky over a changing Kremlin. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (87%); ASIA (87%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); MARS (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (87%); ASIA (87%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (67%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); MARS (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (92%); MILLENNIUM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITIES (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); TERRORISM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



15 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A11, 13-19
 
Yeltsin Resigns, Naming Putin as Acting President
Boris N. Yeltsin shocked Russia and the world, announcing his resignation as president six months before the end of his term and handing over power to his favored successor, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, above. By appointing Mr. Putin acting president, Mr. Yeltsin seemed determined to put a lock on Mr. Putin's succession to the presidency. A11 

After decades of secretive and brutal Communist rule, years of topsy-turvy economics under Mr. Yeltsin and countless political maneuvers that made little difference to their daily grind, many Muscovites seemed simply glad to see an aging, obviously unwell leader leave the scene, or just plain did not care. A18
 
Clinton administration officials said that Mr. Yeltsin's surprise resignation would not dramatically alter relations with Russia, and could improve the chances that Moscow and Washington break a stalemate over a major arms control treaty. A19
 
Chechnya War Takes Toll
As Russia begins the new year, its troops are mired in urban warfare in the breakaway republic of Chechnya, and the still popular war is claiming a higher toll. The Russian artillery hurled round after round toward Grozny, the capital of Chechnya, as the rebels doggedly fought back. A19
 
Hijacker Deal Frees Hostages
More than 150 people held hostage on a hijacked jet for eight days arrived in New Delhi from Afghanistan after India secured their freedom by agreeing to release three jailed militants. The five hijackers, whose names and nationalities are still unknown, sped away from the airport in a van with the three militants. A11
 
Pakistan's government welcomed the peaceful end of the hijacking ordeal in neighboring Afghanistan and, like a proud older brother, praised that country's Taliban leaders for "showing great responsibility and maturity" in managing the crisis. A14
 
Ethnic Strife in Indonesia
New clashes erupted in Indonesia's eastern islands, where at least 300 people have died in Christian-Muslim violence in recent days. The latest fighting comes at the end of a year of almost uninterrupted sectarian violence in the Moluccas. A14
 
Croatian Ahead in Polls
Ivica Racan, a 55-year-old ex-Communist, is likely to be Croatia's next prime minister if the polls hold and an opposition coalition wins parliamentary elections on Jan. 3. And if the opposition does win, defeating the governing Croatian Democratic Union, Mr. Racan says he will move to cut spending on social services by 17 percent. A13
 
Panama Canal Is Panama's
Many Panamanians said that as the United States turned over the Panama Canal, the day felt like Independence Day. The head of the American delegation signed the papers to formalize the transfer. A16
 
World Briefing A16
 
NATIONAL A20-28, 32
 
Prison Security Questioned After the Death of a Guard
Three days after a prison guard and an inmate were killed in an escape attempt at the Louisiana State Penitentiary, law-enforcement officials in the area raised questions about the security of the prison farm known as Angola. Even before the incident on Tuesday, there were lapses and escape attempts at the prison, a district attorney said. A20
 
Debating Drug Industry Ties
Vice President Al Gore has denounced former Senator Bill Bradley for taking large amounts of campaign cash from drug companies and, Mr. Gore says, doing their bidding during his 18 years in the Senate. But the Clinton-Gore administration has also helped pharmaceutical companies on certain issues, and the Clinton-Gore ticket has raked in plenty of their money, too. A22
 
Rehnquist Notes Progress
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist surveyed the state of the federal judiciary and, in contrast to many of his 12 previous year-end reports, pronounced himself quite pleased. The chief justice noted progress in three areas he had identified as problems in his report a year ago: vacant seats on the United States Sentencing Commission, compensation for federal judges and the caseload of the federal courts. A20
 
Intermediary in Cuban Case
The National Council of Churches said it had been working as an intermediary in an agreement to return to Cuba a 6-year-old boy at the center of an international custody dispute but that the deal had fallen apart. The group said it would send two representatives to Cuba on Sunday to meet with the boy's father and grandparents and with United States and Cuban government officials, in hopes of securing the boy's return. A22
 
Worker Charged in Killings
A hotel housekeeper was charged with first-degree murder in the killings of four fellow workers in a crowded hotel and the shooting death of a woman from whom he had tried to take a car as he sought to escape. The police said they were still unsure about a motive. A28
 
Environmentalists Admit Arson
A radical environmentalist group that has claimed responsibility for a series of arsons, including fires last year that caused $12 million in damage to a ski resort in Vail, Colo., said it was also responsible for the Dec. 25 arson that destroyed the Oregon offices of Boise Cascade. A28
 
Man Charged in Bomb Hoax
A Missouri man was arrested on Thursday after the authorities said he telephoned a fake bomb threat in an unsuccessful effort to delay a Korean Airlines jet in San Francisco long enough for his girlfriend to catch the flight. The plane was already en route to Seoul, South Korea, at the time of the call, and the authorities allowed it to proceed after finding the threat to be a hoax. The man, Flavio David Mendoza of Hazelwood was arrested in St. Louis. (AP)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
World Welcomes 2000, With Parties and Song
Two thousand years after Christ's birth, the world's six billion people rode their turning blue planet across time's invisible line and, by common consent, looked into the dawn of a new millennium. Across the United States, in Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, in cities and towns all over the world, bells pealed, crowds shrieked and surged, skyrockets soared into the night, fireworks burst into supernovas, "Auld Lang Syne" rang out, lights pulsed, and loved ones and friends embraced. A1
 
Despite a few sputters and glitches, the world's computers appear to have survived the Year 2000 rollover without major problems -- and with humanity's faith in technology intact, at least for another day. There were a flurry of reports of minor problems, but any technology failures were more likely to be the result of crowding than attributable to computer software. A1
 
The Times Square crowd showed every sign of being the biggest and noisiest ever, undeterred by fears of terrorism or Y2K havoc. A7
 
No Bail for Bomb Plot Suspect
The Algerian man arrested in Brooklyn on charges of being part of a terrorist bomb plot was ordered held without bond in a court proceeding that otherwise offered few new details about the suspect or his activities. The defendant, Abdel Ghani, was arrested on Thursday. B1
 
Stadium Plan Gains Support
A group of Brooklyn community groups that sued to stop a minor league Mets team from moving into a planned ballpark in Flatbush has dropped its opposition to the plan, now that the city has promised to renovate a park where the team would play. But the Brooklyn borough president, Howard Golden, remains a stumbling block to an agreement. B1
 
Religion Journal B5
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
ARTS & IDEAS F1-32
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Sugar Bowl Ends the Season
The eight remaining college football bowl games promise to be entertaining, but only one will decide the national title: Virginia Tech against Florida State in the Sugar Bowl on Tuesday night. D1
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
Elliot L. Richardson
The former attorney general and ambassador was 79. He was best known for his refusal during Watergate to obey President Richard M. Nixon's order to fire a special prosecutor. B7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Dow Closes on an Upswing
The Dow Jones industrial average, by far the best-known average to have endured the entire century, rose 44.26, to a record 11,497.12 yesterday. For the decade, the Dow was up 318 percent, by far its best decade ever. For the century, it rose 26,130 percent. C1
 
Treasury prices ended the year lower in a half-day session, pushing yields to near their highest levels in more than two years. C6
 
Tax Lawyer Named in Fraud
A Tax Court judge has ruled that one of the nation's most prominent tax lawyers, Burton W. Kanter of Chicago, was "the architect" of a long-running kickback and tax-evasion scheme. C2
 
Detroit Trails in Hybrid Race
Experimental vehicles from General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler face huge obstacles that raise questions about a costly partnership between Detroit and Washington. Honda and Toyota, operating with much smaller government subsidies, have already begun mass production of high-mileage cars that combine gas engines and electric motors. C1
 
Disputing Waste Merger Cost
Waste Management, the nation's biggest hauler of trash, contends in a lawsuit that it overpaid in a $1.15 billion acquisition of Eastern Environmental Services because Eastern's chairman overstated profits. C6
 
Malaysia Defers Share Dispute
Malaysia announced that it had extended by six months a deadline for resolving an impasse on $3.8 billion worth of Malaysian stocks frozen on a Singapore exchange. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: The shape of an age to come.
Columns: Maureen Dowd, William Safire, Frank Rich, Thomas L. Friedman. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PANAMA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); INDIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PANAMA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); INDIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRISONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TALIBAN (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



16 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: 1/1/00: TECHNOLOGY AND 2000 -- MOMENTOUS RELIEF;
Computers Prevail in First Hours of '00

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Despite a few sputters and glitches, the world's computers appear to have survived the year 2000 rollover without major problems -- and with humanity's faith in technology intact, at least for another day.
As clocks passed midnight around the world, there were a flurry of reports of apparently minor problems: a timing device at a electric plant in Wisconsin jumped ahead 35 days, but it was quickly reset; a monitoring system at a Japanese nuclear plant malfunctioned, but it did not affect the operation of the reactor; in Australia, ticketing machines on some buses jammed. 
 The technology failures with greater impact were a result of crowding -- circuits jammed when too many people tried to make cellular phone calls in Japan, New Zealand and elsewhere -- instead of computer software that could not fathom the year 2000.
Yet the day arrived without the kind of catastrophic problems once feared, of widespread power failures or planes crashing. The computers of the United States power grid and air-traffic control system rolled over to the New Year just past 7 p.m. Eastern time, which is midnight Greenwich Mean Time, and things went without a hitch.
"I've never felt there was any significant chance the United States would have any problem in its infrastructure," said John A. Koskinen, chairman of the President's Council on Year 2000 Conversion. But he cautioned against complacency in the United States and around the world. "There are likely to be some glitches along the way," he said.
The real test, experts say, will come in the days and weeks ahead as people return to work, as factories, offices and stores begin normal operations. "To look at midnight as the main event would be a mistake," said David Cassano, general manager of I.B.M.'s year 2000 program. "We'll really start to find out where we stand in the first weeks of January as businesses run their systems for the time."
Still, expectations about the severity of the year 2000 problem have been scaled back sharply in recent months. The prospect of computer failures cascading destructively across the world economy was taken as a serious threat not long ago. But most analysts now regard such warnings as exaggerated.
Instead, computer specialists are now watching mainly for a rash of small, but fixable, glitches in computer programs related to the year 2000 problem. These problems, most analysts say, should amount to an economic headache, not a serious illness -- though there are a few analysts who say that a recession early this year is still possible.
Yet around the world, fears about Y2K, as the computer problem is known, were the exception. As he withdrew a few hundred dollars from an automated teller machine in Rome yesterday, Federico Pacifici, 44, said: "I have faith in technology. I don't think normal people will have any problem."
In Japan, the reaction was not quite so relaxed, but there was no evidence of year 2000 panic. Strolling through Tokyo's Ginza district last night, Masao Ito, 66, observed, "I was a bit worried about Y2K, but I didn't think it would be a lasting problem, so I wasn't terribly concerned."
Japanese are accustomed to stockpiling basic goods as a precaution against earthquakes, and the government had recommended that citizens have extra goods on hand in case of year 2000 breakdowns. Masato Takahashi, a student, said he had put away enough water and food for a week. "I'm not expecting anything major, he said. "I just thought there might be some problem."
The isolated cases of panicky reactions may have had little to do with technology. In rural Thailand, for example, the government said farmers and villagers had been withdrawing cash from banks and clearing out food markets because of year 2000 fears. "It doesn't make sense," said Kitti Patpongpaibul, deputy governor of the Bank of Thailand. "Almost none of these people own credit cards or computers."
Astrologers in the Thai countryside have apparently been spreading dire year 2000 predictions.
Globally, the more common sentiment seemed to be that of Spaniards. Surveys have found Spaniards largely unconcerned by the computer problem, known as "Effecto 2000" in Spain, and 90 percent said they had made no special preparations. "There's been no panic buying," said Carlos Lizana, the manager of a Supersol supermarket in Madrid.
If the economic fallout is minimal, it will be largely because many governments and corporations eventually listened to the dire warnings of year 2000 readiness advocates. And they invested more than $250 billion worldwide in finding and fixing the problem.
The United States government alone spent $8.4 billion to fix the glitches in the computers that handle everything from sending out Social Security checks to tracking airplanes with the Federal Aviation Administration's air-traffic control system. The government's efforts accelerated sharply after Mr. Koskinen became the head of the administration's year 2000 program in February 1998.
Companies may have been slow to start -- an estimated 90 percent of corporate fix-it spending has occurred since 1997 -- but once they began, they invested heavily to tackle their year 2000 problems. Citigroup, for example, spent roughly $950 million to get its banks, securities trading desks and insurance operations ready for the Year 2000 rollover.
"There have been massive investments made to address the Y2K issue and those investments will mean that the most severe problems should be avoided," said Lou Marcoccio, the year 2000 research director for the Gartner Group, a computer consulting and market research firm.
The year 2000 problem has proved so costly to try to fix because it has been a painstaking task for thousands of people worldwide, searching through billions of lines of programming code, much of it decades old. The problem dates back to the 1960's and before. Back then, storage space on disks was scarce and costly, so programmers routinely omitted the first two digits in year dates. The danger is that computers will fail to interpret the "00" date as 2000, and shut off or malfunction.
Around the world, the year 2000 rollover has meant that much of the computer industry is on around-the-clock duty, watching for problems and ready to fix ones that do crop up. It has been a quiet watch so far.
From her desk in Hewlett-Packard's year 2000 center in Palo Alto, Calif., Kathy Hahn filed her first status report at 3:45 a.m. Like all the reports she has filed since, it was a green light: the company's field office in Auckland, New Zealand, reported that there were no apparent problems plaguing the company's computer systems at night.
For Ms. Hahn, director of Hewlett-Packard's year 2000 planning, yesterday's lack of problems were a rewarding finish to nearly three years of hard work in preparation. "It feels like I've been pregnant for two and a half years," she said. "I'm feeling a great sense of relief."
Edward Yardeni, a leading Wall Street economist, said it was much too early to relax about the year 2000 problem. Yet even he is revising his earlier dark warnings.
In the summer of 1997, Mr. Yardeni warned that the computer problem could be the catalyst for a recession as severe as the 1974-75 downturn in the aftermath of the first oil shock. But he has done some rethinking recently. "It's certainly not going to be as bad as I thought it would be," said Mr. Yardeni, chief economist of Deutsche Bank Securities.
Mr. Yardeni still thinks it is likely there will be a recession in the first half of 2000 but says it will be a brief, shallow economic dip.
Other analysts do not go that far, but they caution against being too encouraged by the first-day reports. "The real test is coming in the days and weeks ahead, and I think there is a good chance the world's going to have a digital hangover for the three to six months," said Gary Beach, publisher of CIO Magazine, who has testified before Congress on the year 2000 issue.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: SEOUL -- Joining in the celebration, hundreds of South Korean soldiers today held flat computer screens to show they were ready for the year 2000. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (75%); 

COMPANY: GREENWICH MEAN TIME LTD (55%); GREENWICH MEAN TIME-UTA LC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (53%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



17 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: ASIA;
STRONG GROWTH IN SINGAPORE

BYLINE: Bridge News

 BODY:
Singapore's economy grew 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter and 5.6 percent for the full year 1999, Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong said in a New Year message. Mr. Goh noted that the recovery in the economy had been "much faster than we had expected," buttressed by external factors like "the strong upswing in electronics, the beginnings of a turnaround in Japan and continued robust growth in the United States." He said the outlook for 2000 was positive.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (94%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (94%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SINGAPORE ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); TRENDS (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (85%); 

PERSON: GOH CHOK TONG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



18 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: On This First Day, a Fanfare for the New Era;
An Asian Century?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "What Happened to the Asian Century?" (Op-Ed, Dec. 29): 
 Ian Buruma writes that increased growth awaits those Asian nations that give their citizens more freedom.
But the opposite has been true for the last two decades, and the medium-term prospect is for more of the same. Highly coveted foreign investment for labor-intensive industries will continue to flow to the most repressive and corrupt countries (with the exception of Myanmar).
Most realists do not find it "hard to imagine" that China's economy can keep on growing without granting significant new freedoms to the Chinese people.
 
JEFFREY BALLINGER
Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 29, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); MYANMAR (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); MYANMAR (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



19 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 30; Column 4; The Millennium

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: CITIES;
The House of the Future? Still Four Walls and a Roof

BYLINE: By Andrew C. Revkin and John Holusha

 BODY:
WHAT kind of house will the suburbanites of tomorrow inhabit?
It could well be the same kind of house they are living in now. Despite some predictions that today's subdivisions will become tomorrow's slums -- or simply crumble into sheetrock dust -- many planners, builders and housing experts think that a lot of 20th-century housing will endure, and much of what is built in the 21st century will look familiar. While styles change -- lately, for instance, less emphasis has been placed on formal parlors and more on family recreation spaces -- the basics remain the same. 
 "People do not want to live in glass cubes or geodesic domes," said Michael Medick, chairman of the housing committee of the American Institute of Architects.
Construction methods and materials, though, will be different, with the Japanese practice of fabricating big parts of houses in factories likely to spread. Home design will place more emphasis on the use of natural light and recyclable materials. Sensors will tell houses to warm or cool only occupied rooms.
"There is going to be radical change in the intelligence of buildings," said Randolph Croxton, a New York architect who specializes in environmentally sensitive designs.
The trend toward renovating existing homes is also expected to continue; during the 1990's, Americans began spending more on renovations than on building new houses.
"I pick up a lot of dissatisfaction among college design students with all the moving around their parents did," said Donald Carr, a senior researcher for the National Association of Home Builders. "They want to be less mobile and have houses that are more organic -- ones that can grow with a family's needs and then shrink as the needs decline, all in the same location."
The great burst of home construction after World War II peaked along with the baby boom, creating what is now $10 trillion worth of housing -- "one of the major storeholds of wealth in the American economy," said William C. Apgar, the commissioner of the Federal Housing Authority.
"Some people imagine that inventory will change rapidly," he added. "But you don't scrap something because a calendar year turns. That housing will be a dominant force for a long time to come."
Daniel Friedman, a longtime home inspector and carpenter in the Hudson Valley north of New York City, says there is an illusion that everything from the old days was built to last and only new houses are shoddily erected. "It's easy to forget that in the 1800's they built lousy stuff, too," he said. "It's just all fallen down or been torn down."
In decades to come, the same fate will befall houses built during the suburban boom. Houses, Mr. Friedman said, are like species or civilizations: only the strong -- or adaptable -- survive.
In the meantime, new houses will continue to be built to satisfy new markets, like the exploding demand for retirement housing. The main changes are expected to be in how houses are constructed, rather than in their basic design, said Ross Heitzmann, director of the research center of the National Association of Home Builders.
The use of factory-built modular sections is expected to gain in popularity. Houses -- or at least their main components -- will become akin to large appliances, Mr. Heitzmann said. They will be made in factories by relatively unskilled workers or robots and installed on a site by a few specialized workers. To cut the labor of hammering studs and hanging drywall, walls are likely to become lightweight insulated panels, often containing electrical or plumbing connections that can be clicked together like Lego pieces.
Existing homes will steadily be rebuilt, resided, reroofed and expanded to suit new uses, evolving along with the economy -- as they always have. More new materials are being tried every year. A Swiss researcher, studying sausage casings, has developed a new moisture barrier for exterior walls that adjusts to suit the changing seasons, Mr. Heitzmann said.
This idea may succeed -- as did insulating double-glazed windows -- or it may fail, like asbestos siding, lead paint and other once-common building materials that now present big problems. But the housing stock, over all, will endure and adapt.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Diagram/Chart: "Keep the Home Fires Burning and the Checkbook Handy" compares costs of keeping a home today and in 100 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (51%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); SUBURBS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); TRENDS (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ROSS HEITZMANN (71%); DANIEL FRIEDMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



20 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 2; The Millennium

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: POWER;
As the 'American Century' Extends Its Run,

BYLINE: By R. W. Apple Jr.

 BODY:
IT was Henry Luce, as every red-blooded Yankee knows, who christened the 20th the American Century. He proved to be right, but that was not necessarily obvious throughout the 100 years.
At the start, the United States largely absented itself from the world stage. The collapse of world capitalism, a system then as now closely identified with the United States, raised grave doubts in the 1930's, and the rise of Japan undermined American economic confidence for anxious moments in the 1980's. 
 In the geopolitical sphere, the outcomes of the great struggles against fascism and communism did not seem nearly as inevitable before the fact as they seem now.
Those ups and downs are worth remembering as we sit on the cusp of the 21st century, having just crossed President Clinton's bridge from the old millennium to the new. Today, America bestrides the world. In strategic terms, it is the only superpower. Its economy is the most powerful. Its language, its popular culture (from jeans to burgers to films) and its preferred model of free-market democracy make new converts daily.
We have come to see this as the culmination of a naturally occurring process, not unlike the Marxists who saw the rise of communism as the preordained consequence of a scientific process. We, or most of us, expect United States dominance to continue for the foreseeable future. We expect several more American Decades, if not an American Century, version 2.0.
"Our technological leadership and the size of our economy give us every chance to maintain our position," said Lloyd Cutler, Washington wise man, superlawyer and adviser to Democratic presidents. "We are the only country in the world that can settle its debts in its own currency. When times are tense and money seeks a safe harbor, it comes to America."
The American capacity for continual self-renewal -- as contrasted, for example, with Japan's rigidity -- bodes well for the future. It is related, many believe, to the nation's openness to immigration, and to the physical and social mobility, as contrasted with much of Europe, that encourages entrepreneurship and makes bootstrap success an everyday phenomenon.
But much, as always, depends upon the quality of leadership.
"The greatest threat to our world role is us," said David Abshire, a veteran of Republican administrations who runs the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "Our political system has clearly gone wrong. With continued dominance by money and single-issue lobbies, will we be able to attract talented people to public office? Will we hit a period like the one after Lincoln's assassination and have a series of second-rate presidents?"
Critics of the United States, like John Gray, the English scholar, already see signs of frailty, such as the fraying of family life and the resort to "mass incarceration" as a means of controlling crime. It remains to be seen, others suggest, whether Americans can retain a sense of social cohesion as the economy becomes ever more driven by technology, threatening to divide the haves ever more sharply from the have-nots just as major states like California and Texas head toward white-minority status.
In terms of its relationship with other countries, the United States may be more secure than any nation in history, largely because of geography, the nuclear deterrent and the relative weakness of potential adversaries. China has not even begun to resolve the contradictions between its economic and political systems. Russia is a mess. A unified, coherent Europe remains a dream, and even if it comes closer to reality, it is not likely to confront the United States. Try to beat Boeing with Airbuses, certainly; build a unified defense force, perhaps. But turn sharply away from shared values? Not likely.
That is not to say, however, that United States power will continue unchallenged, particularly if Washington, with its heavy hand, tries to assert or expand American hegemony -- if it gives in to the inevitable temptation of the big guy to play the bully. The refusal until recently of the United States to pay its United Nations dues; American insistence that its troops will never serve under a foreign commander; and American second thoughts about a ballistic missile defense system and the nuclear test ban treaty -- all of these developments and more have begun to produce European calls for action to rein in the United States.
The French foreign minister, Hubert Vedrine, said recently, "We cannot accept either a politically unipolar world, nor a culturally uniform world, nor the unilateralism of a single hyper-power." The Germans and Russians have made similar criticisms of the United States lately.
"The more the United States tries to run the world, the more the United States will alienate its friends and unite its rivals," Samuel Huntington of Harvard University wrote in the quarterly Foreign Affairs. "The world's only superpower is automatically a threat to other major powers."
Richard N. Haass, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, argues that an erosion in American power is inevitable. Any attempt to dominate, he said, inevitably "would lack domestic support and stimulate international resistance, which in turn would make the costs of hegemony all the greater and its benefits all the smaller."
BUT what, as a practical matter, could other nations do about it? Form alliances, for one thing, and that is what many scholars expect to happen in the decades to come.
Ronald Steel of the University of Southern California expects to see a multipolar world, with the United States, "probably the European Union and maybe some sort of Asian combination, like Japan and China," competing on the world stage. The challenge for American policy, of course, will be to see that the competition is not destructive.
But there is a larger challenge. Achieving a balance of power among groups of states, like that which prevailed in the 19th century, will not be enough in the 21st. Power is more diffuse, wielded not only by nations but by terrorists like Osama bin Laden; supranational bodies like the World Trade Organization, which excited such animosity during the trade talks in Seattle; the worldwide stock and bond markets and the global mass media.
A commission headed by former Senators Gary Hart and Warren B. Rudman has been studying the possibilities of trouble caused by failures of leadership, terrorist attacks or assaults against what they called "an increasingly integrated and complex but highly vulnerable international economic system." In a first report issued in September, the commission concluded: "For many years to come Americans will become increasingly less secure, and much less secure than they now believe themselves to be."
The same thing said 100 years ago, whether by Americans or the Britons who then ruled the waves, might have evoked laughter. But then who could have predicted the calamity of 1914 and the vast consequences that flowed from it?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Maps of the world highlight regional power shifts from World War I through the present

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTURY CORP (92%); AMERICAN CENTURY SERVICES CORP (92%); AMERICAN CENTURY PALLET CO (92%); AMERICAN CENTURY COS INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); MILLENNIUM (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); FAMILY (71%); POLITICS (68%); IMMIGRATION (61%); WORLD WAR I (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



21 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 4; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: POWER;
Missing in Russia: A History and a Purpose

BYLINE: By Michael Wines

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
ANYONE trying to divine the next step on Russia's wandering course toward nationhood might start with this arresting fact: the last time Russians lived within borders as constricted as the current ones, Ivan the Terrible had been dead for only a few decades, St. Petersburg was a frozen swamp, and New York City was still the property of the Dutch.
In Russia, more than in most places, geography is history. That the collapse of the Soviet Union wiped out 350 years of imperial expansion underlines a central fact of modern Russian history: for all practical purposes, there isn't any. Russians not only lost their shackles with the end of the cold war, they also lost their historical reason for being. 
 "Russia has a major problem finding its identity in the world," said Vyachaslav A. Nikonov, a political scientist and expert on contemporary Russia. "In the people's mind, Russia doesn't belong to anything."
It is not too great a stretch to say that Russia has not been this bereft -- of friends, wealth, territory, purpose -- in centuries. The loss of empire cost her 100 million people and shattered military and political alliances that had been the basis of both foreign and domestic policies. The country's gross domestic product has declined by about half since 1991. Birth rates have plummeted and death rates have jumped. The population, now 145.7 million, is projected to fall to 120 million, and possibly to 80 million, by 2050.
Also, Russians must somehow overcome the physical toll wrought by 70 years of irrational economic decisions. Much of the infrastructure, from factories to roads to telephone lines to basic things like doors and windows, is obsolete or worn out.
"Rebuilding the country is going to be an extremely prolonged process -- a generation, a generation and a half, is going to be about the right time frame," said Thomas Graham, a former American diplomat in Moscow and now a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "And there's nothing inevitable about it."
The hope of Western nations was that Russians would embrace the kind of liberal democratic and economic philosophies that were their lamplights in the dark days of communist rule and reorient the nation outward toward cooperation and peaceful competition.
But as Robert Legvold, a scholar at Columbia University, noted in an essay, "The Three Russias," such hopes ignore Russian history. Russia has always been ruled by strongmen. It has often viewed the outside world not as something to be engaged but as either a threat to be shunned or an enemy to be defeated.
It sees Russian civilization as exceptional -- a truth in many ways, but also a short hop away from the view that other civilizations are decadent and polluting. It obsesses over the ebb and surge of its western and southern borders, boundaries that historically have been unstable precisely because they were not really Russian, but imperial.
"Contemporary Russia can no more escape this history than it can immaculately will itself into democracy or any other de nove identity," Mr. Legvold writes.
For Russians, the difficulty in shedding the past is evident in trends of the last five years: the return of the belief that the West is a military threat; the interpretation of American oil deals in former Soviet states as hostile acts; the rising conviction, expressed in opinion polls, that Moscow should return to its days of empire.
Many experts here speak with longing of the prospects for a "Russian Pinochet," a Latin-style strongman who will restore order while imposing a permanent template of modern capitalism. More than a few analysts think the mix of xenophobia, nostalgia and simple exhaustion will instead lead Russia to the same end as did the abdication of Nicholas II in 1917 -- dictatorship, and a quest to regain lost territory.
Mr. Legvold avoids a prediction, but offers yet another model -- not a Russian Pinochet or a noncommunist Stalin, but a Russian Slobodan Milosevic, whipping people's frustrations and rage into a dangerously nationalistic threat to peace.
There is another possible outcome, too: a Russia that moves toward its own form of democratic capitalism. Aleksandr A. Kabakov, author of two fictional accounts of the future of Russia, said he hoped that the next president would tug Russia along that course. Not until World War II did Europe abandon the imperial model of nationhood, he observed, and even then, great nations like France could not free their colonies without wrenching transitions. His hope is that Russia will learn from the mistakes of the West.
That said, the second of his futurist novels, "The Sentenced One," depicts a world 50 years from now in which Russia is reduced to a Muscovite duchy, a Berlin-style wall runs through Paris, and both Belgium and Britain are split on ethnic and racial lines.
"It's not a prediction," Mr. Kabakov said. "It's a warning. Because if our people will be such fools as they are being now, it will be so. Not just Russia, but the whole world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman with a child begs in Moscow. Russia is still searching for direction after the collapse of the Soviet Union. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (65%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (63%); 

PERSON: ROBERT LEGVOLD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



22 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 48; Column 4; The Millennium

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: REFLECTIONS: LOS ANGELES, U.S.A.;
'We Accepted That We Were Working for the Good of the Country'

BYLINE: By James Sterngold

 BODY:
Not so long ago, when people referred to immigrants in Southern California, they usually meant someone like John Fleetwood. Mr. Fleetwood, 80, came from Kansas City in 1939 to work in aircraft manufacturing. He climbed his way up to running the operation that produced the Apollo command modules. His daughter has become the mayor of the town in which he lived for many years, Downey. He left when it started to become heavily populated by the next wave of immigrants, Hispanics. 
 For Thuy Ti Nguyen, the American Dream is that she is being given the opportunity to solve the problems she encounters in her new home. Ms. Nguyen (pronounced Win) was born in 1975 on the day Saigon fell. Her family fled Vietnam two years later, settling first in New Orleans, then Oakland. She is now studying law at the University of California at Los Angeles. JAMES STERNGOLD
 
JOHN FLEETWOOD
I had heard that there were jobs in the aircraft plants and that you needed a skill, so I went to a trade school to learn the sheet metal work. I finished up and took a train to Santa Monica. I went the next day to the plant. It was Douglas Aircraft and the line went halfway around the block. They only needed 13 people, and since I had been to trade school they hired me.
You could see the mountains. It was beautiful. You could see the snow. The countryside was beautiful. I had a good job. That was California to me. I built my first house with my own hands. It was in 1948. It took me 9 or 10 months.
We were never hurt by a recession while I was there. We felt that we were doing something important.
We moved a few years ago to Vista. Well, I guess you could say the neighborhoods changed in Downey. It wasn't what I wanted. It was a different atmosphere. It wasn't for us.
 
THUY TI NGUYEN
When I think back, sometimes I wonder whether I considered New Orleans Vietnam. The village we lived in, and we called it a village, was a community of Vietnamese folks, mainly Catholic.
The more you got out and saw people who were different from you, that's when my sense of identity solidified as an immigrant. I was a minority in Oakland. There were stares because I was different. There were comments, like "chink," which is a derogatory expression for Chinese. I thought of saying, "If you're going to get it right, call me a gook, not a chink."
Prop 187 Proposition 187, which barred illegal immigrants from receiving government services was definitely a wake-up call for me. I mean, "immigrant" became a kind of bad word. The irony is, I'm Republican. At the same time, I realized there was this xenophobic consciousness in California.
This stuff is just a glimpse of what we're going to get. It's going to be a big part of the 21st century.
I'd like my children to grow up in a diverse community like you have in California, no question. But I want them to have a sense of identity culturally. Who I might marry is a huge deal for me. I know I'm being very discriminatory in that sense. But, if anyone will have me, I want to marry a Vietnamese person, and one who is Catholic. Actually, I think I'm a little bit harsher than my parents about this.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thuy Ti Nguyen's family fled Vietnam after the fall of Saigon.; John Fleetwood went west to California in the late 1930's. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Chronology: 1913: D. W. Griffith makes first Hollywood feature film, "The Squaw Man."
 
 1920: Donald Douglas starts firm (now McDonnell Douglas, part of Boeing) downtown.

 1935: Thousands of Midwesterners pour in, fleeing drought.

 1942: First Mexican "braceros," or farmhands, arrive along with influx of Southern blacks. Japanese-Americans are interned.

 1955: Disneyland opens.

 1962: Cesar Chavez establishes a union to represent migrant grape pickers.

 1965: The arrest of a black motorist by a white officer sparks six days of riots.

 1973: Thomas Bradley becomes first black mayor of a city bigger than one million.

 1992: Riots follow acquittal of white officers in beating of black motorist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); MAYORS (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); 

PERSON: THUY TI NGUYEN (71%); JOHN FLEETWOOD (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



23 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 4; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: POWER;
Economic Thinking Finds a Free Market

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
WILL the forces of globalism continue to push the world toward American-style capitalism?
As the 21st century begins, advocates of the free market have no doubt that they have won the economic argument. Socialism is dead. Moreover, as a means of creating wealth and material progress, American capitalism seems to be clearly superior to the Asian variety, with its greater level of government planning, or the European version, with its emphasis on social welfare and protection of workers from losing their jobs. 
 The proponents see the coming era as a period of global transformation: prosperity will rise around the world as technological change and global integration spread along with democracy. "This new boom has the potential to pull the whole world into it, allowing literally billions of people to move into middle-class lifestyles," Peter Schwartz, Peter Leyden and Joel Hyatt write in their 1999 book, "The Long Boom: A Vision for the Coming Age of Prosperity."
Certainly capitalism has extended to areas where it was previously unfamiliar. From Ghana to Mongolia, stock markets have sprung up, even as the world's largest -- the New York Stock Exchange -- scrambles to hold on to its position as technology opens up new ways to trade. Private enterprise is the dominant economic force, and it is hard to see that changing soon.
Moreover, the technological revolution brought on by computers is tying the world together as never before. Peter F. Drucker, the business historian and management thinker, compares the effect of the Internet to that of the railroad. By lowering transportation costs, the railroad made national businesses possible. Now, with information available instantly, the Internet allows even small businesses to have global ambitions, and it places pressure on nations to relax regulations and cut taxes that make it more difficult for their businesses to compete.
That pressure is to follow the American path. By making it relatively easy to start companies -- and to hire and fire workers -- the American way has produced innovation. Microsoft, the company that investors think is worth more than any other, did not exist a quarter-century ago. Without such flexibility, the computer revolution might not have been so dominated by American companies.
But the forces of globalism and American capitalism face resistance. The Asian economic collapse in 1997 brought home the risk to countries of dealing with huge, uncontrolled capital flows. Free trade may bring overall benefits, but there are losers whose political influence may be substantial. The protests at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle last month united those who fear world government with those who want stricter standards on the environment and the treatment of workers.
The suspicion has grown, even among Americans, that globalism is really a means of helping big business. In a poll of Americans by the Program on International Policy Attitudes at the University of Maryland, 54 percent said that Washington trade officials gave "too much" consideration to the views of multinational corporations; 73 percent believed "too little" attention was paid to the views of "people like you."
That viewpoint has little support among major political leaders, but it could yet resonate. Jude Wanniski of Polyconomics, a conservative research organization, complains that multinational corporations want "an international trade bureaucracy that serves their interest all the time."
"This means," he said, "having more international government under their control, beyond the reach of ordinary Americans who do not understand the imperatives of this new bang-bang world of cyberspace and megadeals."
That such resentment has appeared now -- with the American economy booming and the current period of growth soon to become the longest in its history -- may indicate just how vigorous the debate could become, if and when the economy stumbles.
It may be worth recalling that a century ago there was also a trend toward globalization. Improved transport and instantaneous transmission of information -- remember the telephone and telegraph? -- were hailed as being certain to bring the world together. Trade barriers fell -- until World War I. Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, says that much of what has been accomplished in trade talks over the last couple of decades has simply removed roadblocks that were erected between the two World Wars. Had people acted in an economically rational way, the gains in free trade made a century ago might not have been lost. But they did not.
The economy a millennium ago was far different from ours, but it may hold a lesson as a new millennium begins. In their book, "The Year 1000," Robert Lacey and Danny Danziger write that honey was the principal source of sweetness. "People paid taxes with it, and it was a lucky day when a swarm of bees settled in your thatch," they write. Not only was honey valuable, but beeswax provided the best candles, and thus the most reliable lighting system.
"Thus," observed Marc Faber, a Hong Kong-based money manager, in a review of that book he sent to clients, "it is probable that honey and beeswax were as precious a commodity in medieval times as the Microsoft operating system is today."
WHEN sugar arrived in Europe, the value of honey collapsed. Mr. Faber thinks something similar will happen to the value of Microsoft one day.
That change is not on the immediate horizon. For now, the information economy is king, and its effects include pressures on other countries to come closer to American-style capitalism. The extent to which opposition to global capitalism slows or even reverses that trend may be the most important economic story of the next few decades.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The New York Stock Exchange must now compete with new technology (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GHANA (79%); MONGOLIA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GHANA (79%); MONGOLIA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); DISMISSALS (75%); HISTORY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (64%); TAX LAW (63%); 

PERSON: JOEL HYATT (56%); PETER FERDINAND 'PETER F' DRUCKER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



24 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 22; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: IDENTITY;
A Generation's Anthem: 'Smells Like Teen Pressure'

BYLINE: By Dirk Johnson

 BODY:
YOUNG, hip and smart, Casey Collier seems to glide from one peak to the next, knocking out A's, winning student council elections and starring in the school play.
She is an 18-year-old with a dazzling future. So why does she fret?
"I feel overwhelmed -- I feel like, 'Oh my gosh, this stress,' " said Miss Collier, a senior at Shawnee Mission North High School in Kansas, outside Kansas City. "The other night, I wondered, 'Is it possible to have a nervous breakdown at age 18?' " 
 Coming of age at a time when technology is magic, the economy is purring like a mountain lion and the nation's cultural hegemony is unrivaled, American teenagers might be expected to look at the 21st century as the promised land: theirs for the taking.
But in conversations about the future with dozens of teenagers -- in sleepy farm towns and hip-hop urban neighborhoods and leafy suburbs -- one word threaded them together: pressure. Virtually every one of these teenagers spoke about the looming demand that they succeed and the trepidation they feel about whether they can measure up.
"People feel like young people today have so many opportunities, that if you don't succeed, then what's wrong with you," said Ali Cruso, a 16-year-old high school sophomore in Westerly, R.I. "The bar has really been raised high."
Groomed by a golden age of national triumph, American teenagers see their charge as obvious: Do not drop the ball.
It is too early to know how such a foundation will shape these young people, as they set out to shape the new century. With their anxieties about the future and economic security, the children of affluence seem to share something, oddly enough, with the children of the Depression, whose life and legacy was pervaded by the sense that the bottom could drop out at any time.
Being a hardheaded realist can be useful. It curbs utopian excesses. But if young Americans take on the 21st century simply playing not to lose, will they undermine the expansion they are trying to protect? A willingness to risk, after all, lies at the core of American successes.
In his book "The Rise and Fall of the American Teenager," Thomas Hine argues that the notion of a teenager was an invention of the New Deal, a way to extend childhood as to keep young people out of jobs desperately needed by men and women.
But America today needs workers, and teenagers seem ready to get to work.
Miss Cruso said: "We are the richest young generation in history. We have cars, cell phones, stereos, pagers." But privilege is only one end of the bargain.
"It seems like, if you mess up here, it's going to affect your whole life," said Matt Scheidler, an 18-year-old high school senior in Chicago. "Life shouldn't be terrible if you make one mistake."
Growing up in the culture of money, teenagers have been schooled to be shrewd. They invest in mutual funds. They plan for early retirement. They know about Bill Gates as their parents knew about Paul McCartney. The importance of possessions is so taken for granted by many that it goes unquestioned. One hit song of 1999 could have been a fashion advertisement. "I like girls who wear Abercrombie & Fitch," the band LFO crooned about cooler-than-cool jeans that can't be touched for less than $70.
Adam Coleman, 15, a sophomore in Littleton, Colo., does not hesitate about his career goals. "I want to be wealthy," he said.
The 31 million people between 12 and 19 spent $153 billion this year, which has made them a bull's-eye for the nation's marketers. An entire television network, the WB, aims at teenagers with "Dawson's Creek" and "Buffy the Vampire Slayer."
If money reigns, "cute" and "brute" come next. The top Web site for boys features professional wrestling. The top Web site for girls is MTV's, where the musical acts are increasingly known more for heartthrob looks than their timbre.
While earlier generations found touchstones in books like "The Catcher in the Rye" and "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance," no contemporary text seems to have galvanized today's teenagers. College professors bemoan that a big share of incoming freshmen cannot name the last full-length book they read.
But teenagers hear in such lamentations the tone of a sneer. On a range of issues, they say they feel wounded by characterizations of teenagers as shallow at least, and menacing at worst.
Jessica Brown, a 16-year-old high school sophomore in rural Leland, Ill., said teenagers were tired of being seen as trouble.
"When a group of teenagers walk into a store, everybody gets real nervous," Miss Brown said. "People are afraid of us, like we're going to hurt them."
In her view, the enormous publicity over recent school shootings has irrationally tarnished the image of teenagers, who often feel invisible around adults, Miss Cruso said. "They won't make eye contact, as if we're all juvenile delinquents," she said.
As some teenagers see it, the generation now running the world, notably the baby boomers, should scarcely throw stones.
Ryan Watson, a 14-year-old who lives on the West Side of Chicago, said today's teenagers get along much better than their elders with people of different races. "People now know that if you can't get along with someone because of their race, well, you're not going to get very far in life," he said.
What concerns Mr. Watson, and many other teenagers, is the seemingly unstoppable power of technology. Although some 88 percent of teenagers have found their way onto the Internet, and sending e-mail is almost as popular as talking on the telephone, many say the computer is a dangerous tool. Mr. Watson, himself something of a computer programmer, said young people await human cloning and artificial intelligence as surely as an earlier generation anticipated man's walking on the moon.
But virtual reality blurs the line between truth and image in unsettling ways. Amy Smith, 15, a sophomore in Bloomington, Ill., said she had stopped using chat rooms. "Who's real and who's not?" she asked.
For the most part, teenagers are much more worried about earning the right college admission, getting a sheepskin and making their way up the ladder. "I just want to reach my goals as quickly as I can," Miss Cruso said. "There's a lot of pressure."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Teenagers nationwide, like Casey Collier, left; Ryan Watson; and Ali Cruso, feel pressure to succeed in the future. (From left, Stephen Crowley/The New York Times; Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times; Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KANSAS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (74%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: ALI CRUSO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



25 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 43; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: REFLECTIONS: MEXICO;
'They Just Moved a Brick, Because the Brick Was Right in Their Face'

BYLINE: By Julia Preston

 BODY:
The spare farmsteads and bony milk cows of San Jose de Olivares, a desert plateau in central Mexico, are maintained by women and older people. Enriqueta Marquez Martinez, 73, was born there. She has lived much of her life in absolute poverty, never knowing whether there would be food for the next family meal. All of her 10 children went at one time or another to work in the United States, and three settled there permanently. Eventually, when she was in her 60's, Mrs. Marquez also began to travel to the United States. 
 Sandra Munoz Marquez, 24, actually has two nationalities. Miss Munoz, who is Mrs. Marquez's niece, was born in Chicago but raised in Mexico. Two years ago, however, Miss Munoz left her stable life in Mexico and moved to el Norte, as the United States is known here. Her most recent job was in a cable warehouse in Atlanta. JULIA PRESTON
 
ENRIQUETA MARQUEZ MARTINEZ
I had 10 children, but one, my son Arturo, died when he was 43. When he was in his 20's he was thrown in jail. He was set up and went to jail for a robbery he didn't commit. Right before he was freed he was bitten by a rat in his cell.
After that, he was never right. He had fits. When he was sick he would try to strangle people, kill them. He lived with me. One day I went out to the market for just a minute to get some vegetables. That was when he burned himself. He burned his mattress, his blankets, his sheets, his clothes. And himself.
I got back and found him on the floor. I put my arms around him. He turned very slowly and looked at me. Then the ambulance came. Everyone said he was dead.
But every night, as soon as I would lie down, my son Arturo was right there beside me. He came out of his bedroom and sat down on my bed. He would poke and hug and tease me.
I prayed and prayed, but Arturo kept coming to visit me. That was when I decided to go to the United States. My daughter Margarita was living in Modesto, Calif., at the time. She was the one who said that praying wasn't going to be enough. She sent me to a clinic instead. That's right, a clinic for thoughts.
They really helped me. They asked me questions, and I talked and talked. Nobody ever asked me to talk like that before. I had always listened. I went there for seven months, and after that I never again had a visit from Arturo. I understood that it was just a dream of sadness for my son.
Before Margarita became an American citizen a few years ago, I didn't have any American papers at all, so I had to cross the border just taking my chances. Once, about 10 years ago, I went through Tijuana. The border patrol caught me and sent me back to Mexico five times. After the first times they caught me they joked with me and said, "Don't take it too hard, Grandma. You can always try again tomorrow."
Mexico is suffering. It is a festival of tears. I got married when I was a young girl because I thought marriage would take me out of my suffering. But it just made it worse. My husband was irresponsible and he drank. When he died, I felt nothing.
But I could never live in the United States. Even when I am with Margarita, I feel so lonely there. Most of my children and my grandchildren are still here in Mexico.
SANDRA MUNOZ MARQUEZ
I was born to be an American passport.
I was the baby who was going to make it possible for my parents to become legal in the United States. When my mother was five months pregnant with me, she left our home in Mexico and went to stay with relatives in Chicago. I was born in a hospital there.
But as soon as I was born and had my American birth certificate, my mother just wanted to hurry home. She didn't even get me a Social Security number.
I was happy in Mexico. I had a good job as a receptionist in a medical clinic and I went out dancing on the weekends. But my cousin Margarita, who was living in California at the time, was very insistent with me. She said she didn't have enough family in the United States. She thought of me as her little sister, and she needed someone to gossip and squabble with.
So I went to the United States. It took me seven months to get my American passport. At one point I was interviewed by another Latin person who worked for the American immigration service; I think he was originally from El Salvador. He got angry with me and said: "Why do you want to be an American? You're just like all those other people in line out there. They say they want to be American, but they just want the papers."
That's when it came to me. I told him: "I don't want to be an American. I am an American. I just want you to give me the documents to prove it."
The truth is, I do like my Mexican nationality more. If you ask me where I am from, I will say I am from this ranch, right here. My parents were born in these lands. I like Mexico's little villages, its little houses. The United States is not the same. The people there do not show enough respect for their elders.
My American nationality is my ticket to the rest of the world. Fifteen years from now, I could be living in Europe. It gives me peace of mind to have the door open. I have two life options, and I can choose the one I want.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Enriqueta Marquez Martinez prefers her village to the United States.; Sandra Munoz Martinez's mother went to Chicago to give birth to her. (Photographs by Keith Danemiller for The New York Times)
 
Chronology: 1911: Rebels overthrow Porfirio Diaz.

 1917: Constitution gives government control over education, oil, land and the Roman Catholic Church.

 1929: National Revolutionary Party is founded; it rules for 70 years.

 1934: Government starts distributing 45 million acres to farmers.

 1938: British and United States oil companies are nationalized.

 1965: "Maquiladoras," tax-subsidized assembly plants, are introduced along the border with the United States.

 1982: Speculation and capital flight force peso devaluation.

 1994: Nafta eliminates trade barriers among the United States, Mexico and Canada. Currency crisis shakes economy, requiring a bailout by Washington.

 1997: The governing party loses the lower house of Congress to a populist coalition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (96%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (96%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHRONOLOGIES (90%); BURN INJURIES (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: SANDRA MUNOZ MARQUEZ (62%); ENRIQUETA MARQUEZ MARTINEZ (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



26 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 48; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: REFLECTIONS: RUSSIA;
'We Accepted That We Were Working for the Good of the Country'

BYLINE: By Celestine Bohlen

 BODY:
Revolution and change convulsed Russia twice in the last century, the first time in 1917, when the Bolsheviks seized power, and then in 1991, when the communist system they introduced, at such a fearful cost, collapsed under its own weight. Each time ordinary lives were swept up, sometimes swept away. In midcentury, millions died, killed by war, famine and a totalitarian regime.
But millions more survived, and some came out on top, like Aleksandr Lebedev, 85, a peasant's son who rose to become the first deputy minister of higher education. Like many members of his generation, he feels that World War II galvanized his life more than the revolution. But by the mid-1980's, his sense of patriotic purpose had frayed, and disillusionment set in. 
 In that same period, Maria Kovalyova, 18, then a schoolgirl in Moscow, was just becoming aware of a system that was denying her more than it was able to offer her. She is now a first-year student in the International Business Study program at the Plekhanov Institute of Economics. For both Mr. Lebedev and Ms. Kovalyova, the last decade, with its slipshod democracy and bandit capitalism, has proved to be a disappointment. Russia, they say, has still not found its equilibrium. CELESTINE BOHLEN
 
ALEKSANDR LEBEDEV
I was 4 years old when the October Revolution happened, so I don't remember what life was like before. My father was a farm worker in a village outside Voronezh, in southern Russia, who after the revolution held a top position in the local food-processing industry, so that was a positive side of the revolution. But there were negative sides: as the son of a government employee, I had difficulty getting a higher education. All the places were reserved for workers or peasants. Still, I managed and got an education.
After the army, I came back to Voronezh and went to work in a factory. When the Great Patriotic War World War II began, the factory was evacuated to the east. I was in charge of an assembly line that had fallen behind its production schedule. We were able to fulfill the plan, and that was when I got my first Red Banner of Labor, and went from being a candidate member to a full member of the Communist Party.
After the war, I went on to university, and from there to the Ministry of Higher Education, and rose through the ranks from inspector to head to first deputy minister.
It was the war, of course, that compelled me to give everything -- my whole self, all my efforts -- to my work, to my country. Like everyone else, we lived through the hard times -- repression, collectivization, industrialization. I knew people who were arrested in the 1930's. We knew people who were good people who were taken away, but we had no information to make a judgment. We could only assume that if they were arrested, then there must have been a reason.
It was only after I retired in 1984 just before Mikhail S. Gorbachev began perestroika that I started to think, to analyze the role of the party -- not from a theoretical point of view, but from practice, from real life. I realized that our role was only to execute the commands of the party. There were people who couldn't blow their noses if they didn't get an order from the Central Committee.
That was when I realized that the dictatorship of the party was constraining the people who were ready to take initiative, to do the things that needed to be done.
At the beginning, we accepted that we were working for the good of the country. But experience showed me that not all of the party's commands were correct, that we were just screws in the party's machinery.
What would have happened to me if the October Revolution hadn't happened? My father was a farm worker. Maybe I would have had an education, but probably not.
 
MARIA KOVALYOVA
Before 1991, I remember going to stores. There was nothing there -- empty shelves, people had to stand in line. After 1991, there was the hope that we were going to live better. The first time I realized that changes had come was when I went with my family to Spain in 1992. Before that, travel was practically impossible. As for the future, I thought there would be good jobs and a stable situation and a goal we would all be working toward. Russia is still developing, but now we know it will take a long time.
We haven't been governed well. I remember our teacher in history class in school, who ran through the list of czars: one was crazy, another was half an imbecile, and so on. Our country has not been lucky. And now the political situation is not stable: there is corruption, people are taking our money and putting it in their own pockets. But it all depends on the people's choice. Everything depends on whom the people choose. I don't know how I will vote, or what will happen in the next elections. But if they choose Zyuganov the leader of the Russian Communist Party , then it will get worse. Living here, you don't know what will happen next. Yes, I have thought of the idea of leaving, but then, on the other hand, if I go somewhere else, who will need me there? Besides, Moscow is my city, my native city. It is beautiful, and it is changing, changing fast.
I have been abroad, and I am amazed at people's idea of Russia -- they think bears roam in the streets of Moscow, that people drink vodka night and day, that there is no electricity. Of course, this is very offensive to me; I don't think they understand what is happening here.
I have wider opportunities than my parents had. Maybe their lives were more stable, but now the opportunities are greater, and there is a choice. The most important thing is internal freedom, the freedom to choose.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Kovalyova is studying international business in Moscow. (James Hill for The New York Times); Aleksandr Lebedev, a peasant's son who rose in the Soviet ranks. (Jacqueline Mia Foster for The New York Times)
 
Chronology: 1917: Communists led by Vladimir I. Lenin form a new government.

 1932: Famine after the collectivization of agriculture kills up to seven million people.

 1941: Germany invades the Soviet Union; 20 million Soviet soldiers and civilians die during World War II.

 1948: The Soviet Union entrenches its hold on Eastern Europe; the cold war begins.

 1962: A confrontation over Soviet missiles in Cuba stops just short of war with the United States.

 1968: Soviet troops crush a reform movement in Czechoslovakia.

 1986: Mikhail S. Gorbachev relaxes Communist Party control.

 1991: The Soviet Union is dismantled after a Communist coup fails.

 1998: Confidence in the economy evaporates as Moscow defaults on loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CUBA (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CUBA (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WORLD WAR II (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); FAMINE (78%); FARM LABOR (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ARRESTS (61%); 

PERSON: MARIA KOVALYOVA (61%); ALEKSANDR LEBEDEV (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



27 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 43; Column 4; The Millennium

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: REFLECTIONS: JAPAN;
'They Just Moved a Brick, Because the Brick Was Right in Their Face'

BYLINE: By Howard W. French

 BODY:
Akihiro Takahashi had noticed the American bombers flying high in the bright sky overhead. Then came the terrible blast. For this 68-year-old former director of the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum, the clouds from the bombing still hover starkly over Japan, even if recent polls show that the 1995 Kobe earthquake is cited by more people as the century's most significant event. 
 Far more than most people her age, Ayako Matsushima, 18, worries about the future, when Japan's population will be in decline and the aged will outnumber the young. Still, Miss Matsushima, a high school senior in Hiroshima, sees a bright side. HOWARD W. FRENCH
 
AKIHIRO TAKAHASHI
That moment, there was an awful roaring sound, and suddenly the whole area turned very dark, as dark as if it were nighttime. I had no idea what had happened. After a while, when the smog began to clear and the wind died down, the light began to return. I realized that I had been thrown at least 10 yards. I found myself on the ground, face down. Our class had about 60 students and there were about 150 students in the schoolyard. Everybody was thrown away. Everything was flattened.
I worry that memories of the A-bomb attack are fading. Of course, the shock of the earthquake is still recent, and I feel sorry for the victims. But remember, with one bomb, a whole central city perished.
 
AYAKO MATSUSHIMA
The most important element for the future is human resources. But looking at the decline of academic standards, and young people's fashions and the changes in the language, I wonder if we will have enough qualified people to compete.
Change is not only happening in a bad direction. Certainly in the area of sex discrimination things are steadily improving in Japan. Women are able to blossom much more than in the old society, and young people are benefiting from changes in the way people are evaluated at work. People are being judged on their ability more and more now instead of relying on the seniority system.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Akihiro Takahashi was at this playground when the atom bomb exploded.; Ayako Matsushima worries about the future but sees gains for women. (Photographs by Stuart Isett/Corbis Sygma for The New York Times)
 
Chronology: 1931: Seizes Manchuria from China. The two countries go to war in 1937.

 1941: Japan attacks Pearl Harbor; the United States declares war.

 1945: Tokyo surrenders after the United States drops two atomic bombs.

 1947: The "peace constitution" disbands the army and navy.


 1980: Japanese auto production surpasses American levels.

 1989: Investors from Japan buy American properties, including Rockefeller Center.

 1998: Hit by the Asian economic crisis, Japan struggles through a deep recession, its banks hobbled by bad loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: CHUGOKU, JAPAN (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (74%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBINGS (91%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); 

PERSON: AYAKO MATSUSHIMA (80%); AKIHIRO TAKAHASHI (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



28 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 28; Column 2; The Millennium

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: CITIES;
Audis and Cell Phones, Poverty and Fear

BYLINE: By Roger Cohen

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
LUCIANA MARIA DOS SANTOS lives on the south side of the world's third-largest city in Favela 19, or Slum 19, a collection of shacks traversed by a stream that doubles as the sewage system. Her waterfront property consists of a shanty with a corrugated-iron roof; rats are not infrequent visitors. Despite the limited space, she has managed to squeeze in 2,638 discarded cans.
At night Ms. Dos Santos, 19, heads out past the glittering high-rises, the sleeping bodies under bridges, the buildings that surge and subside with a giddy symmetry in this city that is now a 3,100-square-mile ocean of concrete. Her destination is the clubs whose environs offer lucrative garbage. Over 10 days, she collects more than 2,000 beverage cans; they will earn her $30 from a scrap dealer. "It's not pleasant work," she says. "But the alternative is crime or crack." 
 That alternative is increasingly compelling in Sao Paulo, the fastest-growing metropolis of the 20th century, vortex of the urban problems of the 21st. Drugs and murder are on the rise as a new millennium dawns. The number of murders in the greater Sao Paulo area reached 8,312 in 1998, compared with 628 in New York City.
The violence has some of its roots in the same despair that pushes Ms. Dos Santos to her recycling. What the rich discard the growing number of poor gather. Such adaptability is not new; it is merely more desperate. Brazil's economic capital has always been ready to recycle itself -- from the quaint coffee-trading center of 1900 with a population of 240,000 to the megalopolis of 17 million inhabitants today.
This explosion was part of the migration from rural areas throughout Latin America. About 33 percent of the continent's people lived in cities in 1940, and more than 72 percent do today. United Nations studies suggest that for the first time more than half of humanity will live in urban areas by the first years of the 21st century.
They will not be residing on the Champs-Elysees. By 2025, about 4.4 billion of those people, or 80 percent of the world's urban population, are expected to live in the megacities of developing countries like Brazil and India. Just how livable those billions of existences will be is the question pressingly posed by Sao Paulo today.
Insecurity of a new kind is rampant. It is whispered in the anxious expressions of executives and visible in the barbed-wire fences around some of their homes. What has caused this unease? The world today has been described as post-communist, postmodern, post-just-about-everything. But if we seem to know where we came from, we are by no means so sure of where we are. Radical transition is clear enough: but to what? The sustained impact over a full decade of the new global economy in a city like Sao Paulo seems to offer some troubling clues.
An immigrant city like New York, Sao Paulo has always been a freewheeling place of outrageous contrasts. Wealth has co-existed with abject poverty. Still, today's electronic economy has placed Sao Paulo's social fabric under a new strain. "For the first time, large swaths of society seem as disposable as paper napkins," said Leda Aschermann, a social worker. "They have no further use."
The city, third in size behind Tokyo and Mexico City, is lurching into a new century marked by a combustible juxtaposition: a marginalized majority beside a networked minority with access to a hypermobile virtual universe generating great riches. The static majority is marooned in a physical world where the unemployment rate has more than doubled, to 19 percent, since 1990. This seems to be one paradigm of modern society, or at least the developing areas where most of humanity lives: a city splinters into several cities and its fabric, woven from shared experience, is cut. Vastly different amounts of money were always made, but at least the money was made on the same streets. No longer.
An advertising campaign for imported Audis says the cars "go as fast as e-mail." For millions of this city's inhabitants, this is a foreign language. The Internet and German cars are apparitions of another world. And it is in this gulf where danger resides. Put simply, the disconnected could overwhelm the connected, the suffering territorialists could crush the dot-com globalists. "I see the possibility of a terrible mess here," said Norman Gall, a sociologist.
Today, creative energy and destructive violence seem about evenly balanced. Sao Paulo's restlessness produced the city's maxim, Sao Paulo nao para -- Sao Paulo never stops. The Avenida Paulista, heart of the city, remains a street that concentrates more purposefulness than any other in Latin America. People here are not out for a stroll; they are going places. The two best hospitals in town are the Einstein and the Sirio-Libanes: Jews and Arabs do fine together here, as do the Japanese, Italians, Germans and others who created the city's thrilling kaleidoscope.
Part of that thrill comes from the money and ideas generated here. Lagos, Nigeria, is full of disorder. So is seething Calcutta. But Sao Paulo, unlike these cities, is not merely huge. It is a global city, plugged into the transnational networks where power increasingly lies as the century begins.
Any large corporation with an interest in Latin America has to be here, because the economy of Sao Paulo state is bigger than that of Argentina and because this city has the critical mass of bankers, lawyers, accountants and others capable of managing data moving across borders. Call them the heedless modern saboteurs of the nation-state. Their meetings are necessary for the information economy, which is one reason why the lure of big cities seems likely to persist despite the opportunities for decentralization offered by the Internet.
Sao Paulo is not New York or London or Tokyo; but it is in the tier of about 30 world cities just below, places that will be at the nexus of the world's affairs into the 21st century. So it is natural that the city have what Saskia Sassen of the University of Chicago calls an urban glamour zone. Indeed, it has several. These zones are familiar because they are interchangeable across the world. The fragrant malls, the Armani emporiums, the world-class restaurants, the Range Rover dealerships. The temples of a globalized mankind that lunches on sushi and dines on cassoulet.
Such palaces of consumption are packed with cell-phone-clutching Paulistas spending to the hectic rhythm of Internet time. This new elite is relatively large, certainly much larger than the coterie of coffee barons who ran the city a century ago. Perhaps 20 percent of the population has seldom, if ever, had it so good.
"The global tide certainly raises all yachts," Ms. Sassen said. "You now have an immodest middle class of enormous dynamic potential. But the tide also sinks a lot of ordinary boats. This brings serious problems of disintegration that threaten the whole notion of the city."
What is that notion? Ever since humanity invented agriculture and became sedentary, collections of people linked first in villages and finally in megalopolises have been centers of vitality. They have propelled civilization through scientific and economic advances. Sao Paulo, with its superb universities, has been conspicuous in this regard, galvanizing Brazilian development as the city moved from coffee to automaking to Internet industries. But today it seems in danger of sliding backward as the cohesion essential to any community collapses.
Already it is clear that, to avoid contact with the widespread urban wreckage, the affluent are privatizing their needs. Private schools. Private hospitals. Private, guarded condominiums where their children can play -- "protected, comfortable jails," as John Arnstein, a Brazilian banker, put it.
Yet what Sao Paulo seems to need is not this retreat to fortress privacy but public investment on a huge scale. It needs an extended subway system to alleviate the perennially clogged traffic. It needs schools to get more than 3,000 vagrant children off the streets. And it needs street lighting and sewers for the spreading favelas.
But Celso Pitta, the mayor of Sao Paulo, says the city is heavily in debt. Waste and fraud are rampant. Money is squandered on police forces whose activities are often duplicated and on over-invoiced public works.
An advantage of the open global economic system is that such waste becomes untenable. Markets demand fiscal discipline. But markets are skeptical of intense public-sector investment, and international capital is so volatile that Brazil is obliged to keep interest rates at levels that multiply debts like Sao Paulo's. This drains investments from social needs.
"The danger now is that the only equalizer in Sao Paulo will be the revolver," said Jorge Wilheim, an urban planner.
THE man battling the spread of guns -- 19,898 were seized by the city's police in 1998 -- is Marcio Vinicio Petrelluzzi, the secretary of public security for Sao Paulo state. He has a vision of the Paulista apocalypse. The slums on the periphery, already housing upward of two million people, spread southward toward the dams that provide the city's water supply. The water is infected by open sewage. As population density increases and the soil grows more impermeable, the annual flooding of the Rio Tiete gets worse. Sick, waterlogged, tempted by the goods that globalization places before them, the urban poor rise up. "Chaos takes over," Mr. Petrelluzzi says.
It has not happened yet; it may never. Indeed, there are encouraging signs. The city has stopped growing so fast as industries leave and other parts of Brazil develop. Population is expected to increase to 20 million from 17 million by 2015. But Bombay's projected growth over the same period is to 26.2 million from 15.1 million; Lagos to 24.6 million from 10 million.
A new movement of what Marco Antonio Ramos de Almeida of BankBoston calls "entrepreneurial citizenship" is growing. The private sector is realizing it has a stake in Sao Paulo's future and is putting money into urban improvements. New enterprises like Universo On Line, or UOL, are springing up. Started four years ago, it is already the biggest Internet company in Latin America, with 1,000 employees.
But the UOL jobs do not keep pace with jobs lost in old industries. And their qualifications are different. In his shanty, Geraldo Agostino da Cruz, 17, says drug trafficking is his principal job prospect. "The rich find it easy to make money," he says. "Why is it so difficult for us?"
His bruised eyes in a youthful face tell a story evident in the developing world's megacities: the new globalism has not yet demonstrated that the resources it accumulates can be distributed in a way that builds broad avenues of civility through the earth's spreading urban jungle.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stark contrasts in Sao Paulo: A child sits amid rubble in a slum neighborhood, while a woman looks at children's clothing in one the city's many fashionable shopping areas. (Photographs by John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)
 
Map of the world highlighting largest population centers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY LIFE (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); CITIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); MILLENNIUM (72%); CRIME RATES (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



29 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 32; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: CITIES;
The Human Touch Will Only Inflate College Bills

BYLINE: By Edward Wyatt

 BODY:
WHEN Mozart was alive, it took two to three months for a craftsman to make a watch and about 18 minutes for an ensemble to perform "Eine Kleine Nachtmusik." Today, it takes two minutes for a machine to make a watch. But a performance of Mozart's familiar composition still takes musicians more than a quarter-hour.
That illustration, says William Baumol, an economist at New York University, explains why the cost of college tuition will most likely outpace inflation well into the new century, and perhaps forever. 
 While gains in productivity have made many goods less expensive, products and services that rely heavily on human labor -- like education, health care and symphonic performance -- are rising in cost. People are demanding ever-higher pay, and no one has figured out a way to cut months or years from a course of college study.
Even so, for all the complaints about tuition bills, the percentage of income used by affluent Americans to pay for a private, four-year college education has barely increased. That is because the top 20 percent of the nation's households, in terms of income, have gotten richer over the last quarter-century. According to the College Board, for families making an average of $149,000, the college bill amounts to about 14 percent of their annual income, up from 12 percent. However, for the 20 percent of households with the lowest incomes -- an average of $13,000 annually -- the costs of private schooling have doubled, to 162 percent of income from 84 percent 25 years ago.
Of course, few students at private colleges actually pay the posted tuition price, depending instead on various forms of financial aid. David Breneman, the dean of the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, attributes that fact to an oversupply of spaces at private colleges. The excess supply, however, may dry up over the next 20 years as the college-age population rises by 22 percent, far faster than the overall population.
Technology may help keep costs in check, as lectures broadcast over the Internet force colleges to trim overhead and compete on price.
But Thomas Kane, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, says the earnings gap between high school and college graduates will keep enrollments high; prices will thus continue to rise.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Higher Ed, Higher Cost" shows average annual tuition and fees for a private four-year college from 1990 to 2040

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); MUSIC (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); STUDENT EXPENSES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); FAMILY (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



30 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 21; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: IDENTITY;
'We Tend to Do the Right Thing When We Get Scared'

 BODY:
IN Octavia E. Butler's latest novels, "Parable of the Sower" and "Parable of the Talents," the near future is grim and dangerous. Americans have been devastated by an economic meltdown that makes water too expensive to bathe in. A religious right has captured the White House, unleashing a tide of intolerance, misogyny and ruthless persecution. Yet rising from the rubble of society is a movement of renewal called Earthseed. Its leader, an "empath," is a complex and conflicted black woman.
Never expect Ms. Butler to anchor her tales in sunny-day visions of tomorrow. And never be surprised to discover extraordinary yet flawed black women creating much of the gravity that governs Ms. Butler's earthy brand of science fiction.
The author of a dozen novels, Ms. Butler, 52, is part of a small cadre of black science-fiction writers. 
 She grew up in Pasadena, Calif., and recently moved to Seattle. In 1995, she received a fellowship from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, a so-called "genius award," for her unusual melding of science fiction with African-American spiritualism.
In an interview with Michel Marriott, a reporter for The New York Times, Ms. Butler considered the prospects for real social change in the future. Following are excerpts.
Q. Will racial and sexual attitudes improve in the 21st century?
A. Absolutely not. I don't mean that it's going to get worse. I just mean that we human beings are such naturally contentious creatures. The only way the two issues could disappear is under a regime so totalitarian that we are not permitted to talk about it. . . .
In countries where there are no racial differences or no religious differences, people find other reasons to set aside one certain group of people and generally spit in their direction. . . . It delights people to find a reason to be able to kick other people.
One of the books that I read when I was doing "Kindred" about a woman who slips in and out of her ancestors' slave pasts was a book called "Slavery Defended." It was a wonderful addition to my research because you don't read very much about the defenses of slavery these days. And there were a lot of them. One of them said blatantly that it was necessary that the poorest class of white people have someone that they could be better than. . . .
We are a naturally hierarchical species. When I say these things in my novels, sure I make up the aliens and all of that, but I don't make up the essential human character, the way we are. . . .
It's like war. I mean it's remarkable how many nice boys go off to war and do horrendous things that they don't really have to do.
I'm not talking about shooting at the enemy. I'm talking about making use of the local women, whether they wish to be made use of or not, or killing people just because they can. I mean power is . . . you can get drunk on it very easily, and it really does corrupt.
Q. Why do you place black women at the heart of so much of your work?
A. When I began writing science fiction, when I began reading, heck, I wasn't in any of this stuff I read.
I certainly wasn't in the science fiction. The only black people you found were occasional characters or characters who were so feeble-witted that they couldn't manage anything, anyway. I wrote myself in, since I'm me and I'm here and I'm writing. I can write my own stories and I can write myself in.
Q. Could you imagine yourself living in any other era?
A. I was sitting next to a white man who was flying home, and we got talking. Once he understood what I did for a living, he said, which era did I think it would be most fun to live in, and he chose one. It wasn't the antebellum era, thank goodness. He chose something that he thought would be fascinating.
And what did I think?
As a black and as a woman, I didn't think that I would really want to live in any of the eras before this, because I would inevitably be worse off. I would have spent more time struggling just to prove I was human than doing my work.
Q.Are you pessimistic about the future?
A. I'm not pessimistic about much of anything. No, I'm hopeful. The only problem that we human beings really suffer from, and this is important to us as a species, is that we tend to do the right thing when we get scared.
Like, consider history as our emergency medical system. It works real well at that level, but unfortunately, we have to wait until the disaster looms. With a disaster like global warming, it's too late to worry about when it's looming except to figure out how to adapt to it. . . .
We human beings make a lot of the same mistakes over and over again. It doesn't seem to help. I'm alarmed at how easy it is, for instance, to railroad people into acting against their own best interest.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Octavia Butler, the writer, by a backdrop of Van Gogh's "Starry, Starry Night." (Gary Settle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); RELIGION (77%); WOMEN (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); 

PERSON: OCTAVIA E BUTLER (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



31 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 21; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: VISIONS: IDENTITY;
Seeking a Home in the Brave New World

BYLINE: By Edward Rothstein

 BODY:
EACH day, in the courtyard of the nation's most secure federal prison in Florence, Colo., a strange convocation takes place. Three men stand in isolated mesh cages and talk for an hour. One prosecutor has called it "the oddest kaffeeklatsch in the history of Western civilization." Its members are Timothy J. McVeigh, who bombed the federal office building in Oklahoma City; Theodore J. Kaczynski, the Unabomer; and Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, the mastermind of the World Trade Center bombing. And recently, a place was reserved for Luis Felipe, the leader of the violent Latin Kings gang in New York, who arranged three murders from his prison cell.
And what do the members of this kaffeeklatsch discuss? Movies, we are told -- the one cultural experience shared by all Americans, no matter what their criminal proclivities. But there may be other common ground. This right-wing extremist, mathematical Luddite, Islamic fundamentalist and Latin gang leader not only compose the oddest kaffeeklatsch in Western civilization, they also share a disgust of Western civilization. Broadly speaking, each has rebelled against the 20th-century culture of "modernity." And the rebellion reveals much about the contested status of "identity" at the beginning of the 21st century. 
 Consider their common enemy. Mr. McVeigh's militia mind objected to the liberal institutions and democratic process born in the European Enlightenment; in their place he was determined to establish a new world in which his notion of identity would reign supreme. Mr. Kaczynski left a trail of mutilation and murder in his attempt to overturn the life of "modern man," dreaming of an identity that would rise, he wrote, out of untamed Nature, "independent of human management and free of human interference and control." Mr. Yousef could chat about how modern Western ideas of rights and liberty are a plot by the Zionists, whose modern nation-state trespassed on the religious claims of Islam. And Mr. Felipe might explain why his creation of a violent ethnic gang, ruthlessly demanding its own laws and loyalties, should displace the blandly secular, melting-pot kingdom of society.
In each case, the modern world is attacked for standing in the way of identity's claims because identity is not just a declaration of belonging; it is a declaration of opposition. Identity is a dissent from the universal; it declares an exception.
The exception it declares is also from the demands of modernity. The 18th-century Enlightenment gave birth to the idea that there is something beyond identity, that one might be more than a citizen, or an aristocrat, or a deist or an Aryan. One might be, in the best of all possible worlds, a member of a species, endowed with inalienable rights, deserving guaranteed liberties. Society was to be defined not by inherited difference but by inherited humanity. The American Declaration of Independence is not a declaration of identity but a declaration of freedom from compelled identity. Modernity has often accommodated identity, but only by requiring that it submit to a higher law.
This opposition between identity and modernity has defined the main struggles of the 20th century. Identity's evil triumph was in fascism. Nazism opposed the notion of a universal humanity united under the rule of reason; it celebrated a national identity that staked its claims in blood. Other violent declarations of identity have occurred when national sovereignty lost its power: recent tribal genocides in Africa and Eastern Europe were assertions that identity should define civil authority.
The forces of Enlightenment, though, have led to problems as well. Universal principles might seem noble enough, but in practice they often led to atrocity. How, after all, did communist tyrannies develop? By asserting that the rulers possessed a humane vision justified by science and reason; sacrifices would have to be made in service to that vision, but they would be made for the good of all. The number of deaths attributable to such utopian visions in the last century easily rival those attributable to national genocides.
Each pole, then, has its dangers. And the struggle between them will cast its shadow into the 21st century. But how has this future struggle been envisioned? And what is most likely to unfold? Forecasters during this century have been far less worried about identity madness than Enlightenment madness, embodied in the triumphant technological state. That state has provided the familiar dystopia of 20th-century science fiction -- from Aldous Huxley's still-disturbing vision in "Brave New World" to films like "Blade Runner" or "The Matrix."
These predictions of modernity's evils have also come to embody the way we see our world. In novels, films and computer-hacker fantasies, we imagine ourselves to be powerless puppets and pawns, caught in the identity-crushing maw of corporate capitalism, government, law, media and social institutions. Typically, salvation is offered by an iconoclast, an outlaw who shatters the oppressors' bonds, ushering in a new age. In practice, this revolutionary myth can occasionally lead to real reforms. But it also leads to exaggerated perceptions and ready-made villains familiar in American culture. The kaffeeklatsch members see the world this way. They claim to be its saviors.
But generally the myth does not, like the kaffeeklatschers, invoke premodern identity to overturn modernity; the state is not replaced with an ethnic, religious or romantic paradise. Instead, identity is itself seen as a creation of the corrupt world, "socially constructed," as many academic studies now assert. It, too, is imprisoning, ruthlessly imposed. After the libertarian revolution, even identity's constraints will be shed; one will finally be able to freely invent oneself.
This is an old fantasy, imagined by communist tyrants as well, but technology is reinvigorating it. Internet role-playing games allow the invention of identities. Test-tube conceptions have clouded notions of parents and children; genetic engineering will go even further. And bioengineering is creating human-mechanical hybrids, in which artificial limbs and organs are united with blood and flesh. The inventor Raymond Kurzweil has even argued that in the next century computers will develop consciousness, creating a new species of humanity, amplified in its powers. We are being constructed? Well, then, let us construct ourselves. Technology will liberate us from the oppressions of technology. The future will free us from both identity and modernity.
These grand hopes are also being encouraged by the weakening of the most significant political invention of modernity: the nation-state. Commerce and conversation are becoming borderless transactions. Cultural distinctions are dissolving. In Europe, countries have already ceded some economic and symbolic independence to form the euro, the first modern currency not associated with a particular country. The United States, in recent military actions, has declined the prerogatives of a world power and insisted on multinational consensus.
Some think that transnational corporations will become all-powerful, requiring further revolutionary spasms. But utopians, undeterred, believe that racial and national identities will fade, that distinctions between the sexes will disappear along with traditional family roles, that a global union based on libertarian principles will evolve, that technology will be so inexpensive that it will democratize the world.
Yet these prospects seem unlikely. Yes, social roles will change with prosperity and technological innovation, just as they have in the past. Yes, there will be a greater need for international authority. Yes, humans will have engineered parts and machines with human qualities. But identity's demands will not disappear, nor will the challenge of mediating between those demands and those of a grander social compact.
There may be no escaping identity, because -- so it seems -- humanity cannot exist without creating such distinctions and allegiances. We seem to have an inalienable tendency to establish circles of identity, beginning with allegiances of family or tribe, extending outward to allegiances of profession or religion or material interest, encompassing the allegiance of nation, and, only finally, the allegiance of the human. These circles may change shape and range, but can they ever be eliminated? Every utopian project tries to undo these bonds, beginning with the family circle; and every attempt becomes inhuman in its demands.
THERE may also be no escaping modernity. It provides the premises and vocabulary -- of rights, reason and representation -- that permeate even efforts to demolish it. So as the new century begins, many of modernity's opponents deal in paradox. They reject the Enlightenment in the name of the Enlightenment. They celebrate the particular in the name of universalism. Identity is treated as the apotheosis of reason. Some supporters of multiculturalism, for example, at once reject Enlightenment ideals -- claiming that even reason is culturally relative and unjustly imposed -- and enthrone them, invoking equal rights.
Far more unsettling, though, is the already familiar sight of terrorist groups, kaffeeklatsch types and rogue states taking arms against modernity in the name of identity, invoking notions of rights and equality while violently undoing their meanings, turning modernity against itself.
So, as the 21st century begins, the struggles of the 20th will mutate.
But their consequences may remain familiar. We will still be tempted to prefer extreme formulas to messy truth. Even now, dystopian visions are so prevalent, we tend to forget that imperfectly just societies really do exist, all around us; utopian visions are so tempting, we tend to forget their impossibility. Modernity is so frequently attacked, we tend to forget its necessity. And the passions of identity can be so frightening we tend to forget their inevitability.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mirko Ilic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); GANGS (70%); 

PERSON: LUIS FELIPE (62%); RAMZI AHMED YOUSEF (62%); THEODORE J KACZYNSKI (62%); TIMOTHY J MCVEIGH (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



32 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 37; Column 1; The Millennium

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: REFLECTIONS;
100 Years Ago, A Penny Bought the World

BYLINE: By Clyde Haberman

 BODY:
ONE of the first things you learn from examining the world of a century ago is that people knew how to count. They understood that 99 years do not a century make, which is more than you can say for us today.
Since 1900 was sensibly considered to be the last year of the old century and not the first year of the new, January 1900 was welcomed with ample appreciation but without dawn-of-an-era fanfare. It was, after all, still the 19th century. Rhetorical ruffles and flourishes would not be sounded until a year later, on Jan. 1, 1901, when a headline on the front page of The New York Times proclaimed "Twentieth Century's Triumphant Entry." 
 Simple math -- use your fingers, if you wish -- suggests that the hoopla now over the new millennium should have been delayed for another year. But the very fact that you are reading this underlines how irrelevant that logical point is to the billions of earthlings convinced that they entered the 21st century this morning.
If the Americans among them were to take a moment to look not forward but rather back a century, they would see a country brimming with economic confidence. In that sense, it was not unlike the United States today.
"The year 1899 was a year of wonders, a veritable annus mirabilis, in business and production," a New York Times editorial said on the first day of 1900. "To paraphrase a celebrated epitaph, prosperity left scarcely any of our industries untouched, and touched nothing it did not enrich." Scanning the pages of The Times in January 1900, one sees nothing to indicate that that good times would do anything but continue to roll.
Titans of industry and finance were seen as that: titans, as well as men of laudable works. The front page heralded gifts like the $300,000 that Andrew Carnegie gave to Cooper Union and the $100,000 that John D. Rockefeller presented to Columbia University. Their generosity was duly noted by a Times editorialist, who wrote:
"When a man who is a great many times a millionaire, as Mr. Carnegie is, can demonstrate that he has done good both in the accumulation and in the scattering of his fortune, there is nothing left for the Socialist and the demagogue to say to which sensible persons will pay any attention."
For his part, Carnegie thought it simply wonderful to be poor -- or at least to start out that way. So he told a Bible class at the Fifth Avenue Baptist Church in New York, to which he rode in the same carriage with Rockefeller.
"I was born to the blessed heritage of poverty," he said, adding: "We hear a good deal in these days about poverty -- 'Oh, abolish poverty!' But the saddest day that civilization ever saw will be that in which poverty doesn't win its way. The poor, thank God, we will always have with us."
Too bad that John Massetter of Brooklyn did not get to hear that speech. Perhaps he would have understood the joys of being poor. Instead, he killed himself that January, leaving a letter for his wife that said he had no prospects and life was not worth living.
The thickest clouds, however, were not at home but overseas.
News from abroad in January 1900 was dominated by two events, the Boer War in South Africa and fighting in the Philippines between American armed forces and Philippine rebels seeking independence from the United States, newly in control of the former Spanish colony.
Ultimately, in 1902, the British would prevail over the Boers, who were the descendants of German and Dutch colonists and the forerunners of today's Afrikaners. But in early 1900, the war was going badly for Britain. A dispatch from England on Jan. 29 quoted The Times of London as saying:
"It can hardly be necessary to dwell upon the extreme probability that we shall learn, a little sooner or a little later, of a catastrophe almost without precedent in our military history, a catastrophe, indeed, without a parallel except in the surrender at Yorktown."
Some of the war's horrors seeped through the gauze of British censorship. One article quoted a British correspondent in South Africa as saying that soldiers were so thirsty that they offered "fabulous prices for a cup of water."
"I saw one soldier lying flat on the line under an engine, catching a few drops in his mouth from a steam pipe," he had written.
The situation was gloomy as well in the Philippines, with casualties mounting on both sides. This was accompanied by a sharp debate back home over what the United States should do with its possession in Southeast Asia. Grant it independence, some said. Others asserted that Filipinos were incapable of governing themselves. Their speeches were at times laced with racist observations that would be almost unimaginable today.
"They are a barbarous race," a Senator Beveridge of Indiana said of Filipinos, "modified by three centuries of contact with a decadent race." That last reference was to Spain. A Times reporter took it on himself to characterize the senator as having spoken with "earnestness, vigor and eloquence."
But the wars were not so dominant that they crowded out stories closer to home, many of them quaint or quirky. Of course, much depended on the definition of news, quite different in those days.
A typical midweek issue of The Times had 14 pages. Each was dense with information. Photographs were nonexistent. Instead, there were dozens of tiny articles to a seven-column page. The front page had has many as 45 separate items, many no longer than a paragraph.
This may be as good a time as any to note that the daily Times cost only a penny then, the Sunday newspaper 3 cents.
It was a time when six-room apartments on West 98th Street in Manhattan were renting for $22 to $28 a month. Macy's had a sale on petticoats for as little as 99 cents each and corsets for 49 cents each. Lord & Taylor offered tablecloths for $1.45 as part of a linen sale.
Front-page news could be about something as trivial as a New Jersey man driven crazy by a cricket that had crawled into his ear. It could be about a Boston man dubbed "Jack the Slasher" by the police because he went around cutting up expensive clothes. Or it could be about a Washington man fond of slicing up women's dresses. He was called "Jack the Cutter."
A decision by the British vice consul in Kansas City to become a United States citizen qualified as big news. Maybe his jumping ship appealed to the prevailing nationalistic spirit.
Also deemed noteworthy was a sleepwalking man who jumped from the roof of a two-story building -- an article that happened to catch modern eyes because the headline called him a "somnambulist." Apparently, editors then could safely assume that readers knew certain 75-cent words.
So much was brand new then.
Tunnel-digging was about to begin in New York for a new rapid transit system that would run underground; the word "subway" was not yet in vogue. Baseball club owners talked about creating a new association to rival the established National League; the term "American League" was still unknown.
The motorcar was new. Four months earlier, a New York man, Henry Bliss, had become the first North American killed by one of the newfangled machines. He was knocked down by -- what else? -- a taxi.
Still, there was room for Page 1 shock in January 1900 when two New Yorkers were injured by a runaway carriage drawn the old-fashioned way: by horses.
A new book was out on the British conquest of the Sudan, "The River War," by a young writer named Winston Churchill. "Aida" was performed in January for the first time in New York at the Metropolitan Opera House, with The Times observing that "the dusky heroine of Verdi's opera was an enchantment to the eye, if not to the dramatic sensibilities."
Later that month, Ibsen's "The Master Builder" had its first performance in this country, at the Carnegie Lyceum, a theater not far from Keith's, where Houdini was onstage every night. Movies? Sorry. They were still years away.
For some religious denominations, the times were not brilliant. Baptists, Methodists and Presbyterians all reported declining membership. Perhaps it did not help that the price of Bibles was up, by 5 percent.
But don't think for a second that religion was a dwindling force. Sunday laws were very much in effect, though there were many arguments over what qualified as necessities, whose sale on the Sabbath was permitted. On the Lower East Side of Manhattan, a policeman arrested a grocer for selling soap on Sunday. But the charges were tossed out by a judge who exclaimed: "Soap! Why, the man ought to be commended for it. In my opinion, it would not harm the people of the city if they used more soap and used it more freely."
FOR a vivid sense of the social change that the last century has brought, consider the case of John Fisher and Lizzie Clark. Fisher was "young, debonair and high-collared," Miss Clark "a demure maid" who looked older than her 15 years. They were strangers on a train near Atlantic City.
Here, according to The Times, is what happened:
"Miss Clark was standing on the platform. He thought she smiled. She got on the car and took the front seat. He beat a ragtime refrain. Then he ran his hand through his hair, brushed two specks from his coat, smiled a pensive smile, and took the seat beside Miss Clark and remarked in feeling tones 'that it looked like rain.'
"Hardly were the words uttered when the conductor bore down, attracted by the girl's signals of distress."
Off to court in Camden, N.J., went the debonair Fisher. The charge: flirting. He got 60 days in jail -- for telling a girl that it might rain! A man screaming obscenities will barely cause heads to turn on the New York subway today.
It must have been the feeling tones that did Fisher in.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE WORLD'S POPULATION TODAY: These faces represent the demographics of today's world, based on United Nations data from 1998, the most recent available.; As the 20th century ended, there were more than six billion people on earth, and the world's most populous places were China, India, the United States and Indonesia.; They were the largest in 1900, as well, when the global population was 1.65 billion.; Brownstones were new housing at the turn of the last century. (Photographs by Jack Manning and Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times; Sinopix; P. J. Anthony/The New York Times; Kaveh Kazemi, B. K. Bangash and Altaf Hossani for The New York Times; John Maier Jr.; The Image Bank; Liaison Agency; Corbis; Sygma; Kaku Kurita; Associated Press; Agence France-Presse; Reuters) (pg. 37); Boer troops, forerunners of Afrikaners, defending Spion Kop, a hill in West Natal, against the British in January 1900. (Hulton-Deutsch Collection/Corbis) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDONESIA (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDONESIA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (83%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); MILLENNIUM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (62%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



33 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Boston E-Party

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Last summer I was changing planes at Singapore's swank new airport, which has lounges spread all over, at which transit passengers can watch satellite TV. As I walked through the airport, I bought a snack and sat down in one of these lounges. There I found two elderly Indian women, in traditional sari robes, watching American professional wrestling. These two petite Indian ladies were sitting transfixed, gazing at huge wrestlers in Tarzan suits body-slamming one another. All I could think was: "What in the world are they making of this?"
 I've thought back on that scene often, because it captured an essential truth about the world we are about to enter -- a world increasingly without walls in which countries, cultures and economies are going to meet, and wrestle with, each other so much more directly -- for better and for worse. For months Cisco Systems, makers of the Internet, have been running an ad showing young people from all corners of the earth asking: "Are you ready?"
I'm afraid we're not. There's an old adage in the computer business that the hardware always runs ahead of the software. That is, the computer and chip makers are always building faster machines that the software writers have to catch up with. It's true of people, too. As we enter the new millennium the agents of change in our lives -- the technologies and networks that are tearing down walls, weaving us together and forcing us all to speed up, downsize, download, integrate and streamline -- are running ahead of the human capacity to adjust and absorb. Our computers and robots may be Y2K ready, but our bodies and our politics are not. 
 Well then, some people say, let's put the walls back up, put some sand in the gears and slow down the world -- not so I can get off, but so I can stay on! Not so easy. Every time you try to rebuild a wall, some new technology comes along and erases it. We have no choice but to adjust.
You'd never know that, though, listening to the presidential candidates. We have candidates out in Iowa debating ethanol while the Internet is transforming the world, and it doesn't even get a mention. That's because, for the moment, the Internet is primarily ripping apart, and radically restructuring, business and shopping. But in the next decade its creative destruction will hit education and government with full force.
"None of the candidates are talking about this at all," remarked one Internet exec, "but then I guess if any of them really understood the magnitude of the changes that are coming in the next eight years they'd never run for office."
Steve Case, the head of America Online, put it to me best: "I think we need to reconvene the Founding Fathers." I agree, because the next decade is going to be as revolutionary and creative a period in American politics as was the period between the Declaration of Independence in 1776 and the Constitutional Convention in 1787.
The fuse will be e-commerce and a new Boston Tea Party, led by governors and mayors throwing computers overboard. Because as they discover that their tax base is being lost to untaxed Internet commerce, we will have to move to a national sales tax. This will require a restructuring of relations between cities, states and the federal government. Issues such as freedom of speech and libel are going to have to be rethought as the Internet makes everyone a potential publisher in cyberspace -- but with no censor or editor in charge. Privacy protection is going to have to be rethought in a world where for $39 Web sites will search out anyone's assets and home address for you. And our safety nets are going to have to be rethought in a world in which access to the Internet is going to be viewed as a human right, essential for basic survival -- especially as governments move more services to the Web. (Are you going to wait in line for hours at city hall to get a license renewed when you can now buy your whole car with one click on the Web?)
Getting through this transition is going to require the best of America, and for America to be at its best and help others. The best of America was that unique blend of wisdom and fresh, youthful thinking of the Founding Fathers. To re-engineer our society and country we're going to have to revive that youthful, radically creative spirit. This may be the millennium, but it's no time for us to get old.
I was once asked what I wished Israel on its 50th birthday, and I said I hoped it would always remain true to the last lines of Bob Dylan's ballad "Forever Young." I wish that even more for America today: "May your hands always be busy / May your feet always be swift / May you have a strong foundation when the winds of changes shift / May your heart always be joyful / May your song always be sung / May you stay forever young." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (91%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); AOL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (91%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRPORTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); SNACK FOOD MFG (77%); WRESTLING (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); WOMEN (72%); ELECTRONICS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); MILLENNIUM (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); ALCOHOLS (63%); 

PERSON: STEVE CASE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



34 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: January 2, 2000

 BODY:

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Dec. 18, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (50%); BELGIUM (50%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: IMAGE BY DESIGN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (50%); BELGIUM (50%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); SPACE EXPLORATION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); ART DEALERS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); POLICE FORCES (55%); TERRORISM (50%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); J K ROWLING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



35 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By Janet Piorko

 BODY:

RED SEA RETREAT: The new Ritz-Carlton, Sharm el Sheikh has a rate of $160 a night through June 30 for a single or double room. That price, for a package called the Red Sea Retreat, includes daily breakfast buffet, one of several spa treatments and use of the fitness center. The package is not valid from Wednesday to Jan. 11; March 16 to 20, and April 17 to 28. The 307-room hotel, which opened last month on the southern Sinai Peninsula, overlooks a reef where diving can be arranged. There are several pools and three lighted tennis courts. For reservations: (800) 241-3333.
 
BURGUNDY BY BARGE: For travelers willing to take a chance on March weather in Burgundy, Continental Waterways has an eight-night package for $1,999 a person, double occupancy, that includes a six-night barge trip on the 24-passenger Mirabelle; round-trip air fare from more than 100 cities in the United States, including New York, and two nights' accommodation in Paris, with Continental breakfast and hotel taxes. On the boat, which cruises between Dijon and Vandenesse-en-Auxois, all meals, bar drinks and wine with lunch and dinner are included, as well as sightseeing. Departures from the United States are March 3, 10, 17 and 24. For information and reservations, call (800) 676-6613. On the Internet: www .continentalwaterways.com.
 
PACKAGES TO EUROPE: London, Paris, Madrid and Milan are featured in three-night packages from Destination Europe, the tour division of Auto Europe, the car rental company. From New York or Boston, the London packages start at $493 a person, double occupancy; Paris, $570; Madrid, $683 until March 2, then $740, and Milan, $679. The packages include round-trip air fare, lodging, daily Continental breakfast and a three-day standard-shift economy car rental. Sample hotels include the Thistle Kensington Palace in London and the Mercure Lafayette in Paris.
The packages are offered from Jan. 10 to April 12, though it may be difficult to get reservations toward the end of that period. For reservations or more information: (800) 835-1555 or on the Internet: www .skydrive.com.
 
YANGTZE CRUISE: A six-night trip to China from TBI Tours, including a four-night Yangtze River cruise, starts at $1,534 a person, with round-trip air fare from New York. The package also includes hotel rooms in Beijing and Shanghai; daily breakfast; four lunches, and three dinners. The river trip, on a Regal China Cruises ship, includes a tour of the Three Gorges Dam site. Optional tours and additional hotel nights are available at extra cost. Departures are from late April to mid-November, with the $1,534 price in effect early and late in the season. From mid-July to mid-August, the price is $1,734. Information or reservations: (800) 223-0266. JANET PIORKO
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (91%); SPAIN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); RED SEA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); YANGTZE RIVER (79%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); EAST CHINA (70%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (91%); SPAIN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); RED SEA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); YANGTZE RIVER (79%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); EAST CHINA (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); CRUISES (89%); AIR FARES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); RIVERS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (69%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



36 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Clinton Hill, Brooklyn;
Historic, Diverse and on the Rise

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
WITH little commercial activity and only one subway line to Manhattan, Clinton Hill has long been a place that turns in early for the night.
Now, though, this low-profile Brooklyn neighborhood is getting attention from people priced out of other parts of the city. 
 Like its sister neighborhood, Fort Greene, with which it is often compared, Clinton Hill is primarily one big historic district. The streetscape is open and varied, with row upon row of brownstones mixed with carriage houses, frame structures, brick mid-rises and even a Georgian mansion or two.
The landmarked Royal Castle apartment building looms in a florid Beaux-Arts style. The Roman Catholic Queen of All Saints Church resembles a diminutive Gothic cathedral. The sunshine-yellow Steele-Skinner House, circa 1812, sports a cupola.
Then there is the hulking Graham Home for Old Ladies, founded in 1851 as the "Brooklyn Society for the Relief of Respectable, Aged, Indigent Females." Plans to turn the brick monolith into lofts fell through, and it is currently on the market for $2.6 million.
"There's a certain quietness and gentleness to life in Clinton Hill," said Bob Evans, chairman of Community Board 2, who lives in Fort Greene but attends the landmarked Emmanuel Baptist Church in Clinton Hill. "It's phenomenal in terms of its diversity -- ethnically, racially and economically."
Real-estate agents say that prices are lower in Clinton Hill than next door in Fort Greene and that people get more space for their money there than in comparable parts of Brooklyn.
"Cheap real estate brought me here," said Douglas Clubok, a computer programmer who bought a two-bedroom co-op in 1985 in one of Clinton Hill's mid-rise apartment houses. "And I was charmed by the physical appearance of the neighborhood."
Currently, typical four-story houses in the historic district sell for $600,000 to $650,000, said Naida McSherry, owner of Naida McSherry Realty. Prices are higher for very large houses with "exceptionally beautiful detail," she said. They are lower for houses that need extensive renovation or are at the edges of the landmarked area or beyond -- on the blocks north of Myrtle Avenue, sometimes known as Wallabout, or near the Fulton Street/Classon Avenue intersection, adjacent to Bedford-Stuyvesant.
Prices, which started climbing three to four years ago, have been rising at 20 percent a year, said Kathryn Lilly, who owns Realty on the Greene.
People unfamiliar with the area initially prefer Fort Greene "because it's closer to the subway line and Fort Greene Park," she said. "But when they're here, they see Clinton Hill has much more diverse architecture and the population density is a little lower," she added.
The price range is wide, Ms. Lilly said, adding, "We've got a little one-family house that needs a gut rehab for $150,000 and we have things listed for $700,000." Desirable houses can sell in a week, she said.
MUCH of the housing is in original condition because "Clinton Hill was landmarked in 1981 before anybody wanted to live here," said Sandra Shepard, an agent at William B. May Company whose family moved last year into a double carriage house in Clinton Hill. She said that prices for a few high-end homes, like triplexes with garden rentals were heading into the $800,000 range.
"Multifamily houses go for less," she said. "Houses that are chopped up are harder sells. You would have to reconfigure the house to get the living space you need."
Ms. Shepard credited the introduction of the MetroCard with changing the perception that Clinton Hill is out of the way. The C train, a local, is the only one that goes to Manhattan. Now, with free bus-subway transfers, people are taking a 15-minute bus ride to downtown Brooklyn, with its large choice of subway lines. Those with cars report little trouble finding on-street parking.
The area's several high-rise co-op complexes include the Clinton Hill Co-operative Apartments, built in 1938 for workers at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. The 1,221-unit complex, with 12 buildings of 12 to 15 stories, was converted in 1982.
"The north side housed the enlisted men and the south side the officers," said the sales director, Jacqueline Henriquez. "It was less dense on the officers' side." One-bedrooms sell for around $90,000, two-bedrooms for $120,000 and the few studios for $70,000.
Often, rentals are within owner-occupied brownstones. Within the historic district, a one-bedroom rents for $1,200 to $1,400, said Suzanne DeBrango, an agent at the Aguayo & Huebener Realty Group. A two-bedroom rents for $1,600 to $1,800, three-bedrooms for $2,000 and up. One went recently for $3,200, Ms. DeBrango said.
Rental prices tend to be substantially lower east of Cambridge Place, where the blocks are more rundown. Nearby Fulton Street has several boarded-up storefronts. The intersections of Fulton Street and Classon Avenue, and of Grand and Putnam Avenues, do have "some congregating on the corner" and "some disorder," said Capt. James Guida, commanding officer of the 88th Precinct.
In the last several years, the precinct has seen some of the city's most dramatic drops in crime. Recently, however, grand larceny has been on the rise, said Captain Guida. "Last year was a tough year to beat," he said. "The crime that has risen most significantly is property crime" --like theft of equipment from offices and from unattended vehicles.
Clinton Hill lacks major shopping areas, though there are scattered grocery stores, coin laundries and pizza places. Myrtle Avenue, near Wallabout, includes thrift shops, gas stations and fast-food restaurants. Several merchants' groups are currently mobilizing to beautify the street and attract more businesses.
One neighborhood favorite is Mike's Coffee Shop on DeKalb Avenue, a fixture for 60 years.
A fresh food market and bakery should be opening on Vanderbilt Avenue in the spring, said Ms. DeBrango, who also handles commercial rentals.
ONCE farmland, Clinton Hill got its start in 1832, when the main boulevard was laid out. It was named for De Witt Clinton, who had been both mayor and governor.
In 1874, Charles Pratt, an oil magnate and a partner of John D. Rockefeller, built himself a mansion at 232 Clinton Avenue, then built four more as wedding presents for his sons. Three remain. The leafy promenade gained a reputation as the Fifth Avenue of Brooklyn, or Millionaire's Row.
Early in the last century, apartment buildings replaced some of the grand houses, and brownstones were divided into rooming houses.
The Clinton Hill Society nurtures the landmark district by raising funds for preservation, running house and garden tours, and painting over graffiti that mars the streets.
In the 1960's and 1970's, Clinton Hill was beset by poverty, said Kurt Wohlfeil, the society's president. "Brownstones were converted to floor-throughs and just sat there, whereas at other places people were taking out the banisters, woodwork and mirrors," he added. "Now, people are restoring these gems."
Neighborhood volunteers are also active in publishing a free quarterly newspaper, The Hill: Journal of Clinton Hill, Fort Greene & Wallabout.
A mainstay of the area is the Pratt Institute. The art, design and architecture school was founded by Charles Pratt in 1887 with one drawing class and a dozen students. Today it has more than 4,000 students. Pratt's 25-acre campus includes several demapped streets, four landmarked buildings and three residence halls. Last summer, 26 large sculptures were installed on the grounds.
PART of Clinton Avenue is occupied by St. Joseph's College, a 1,300-student commuter school that focuses on business and health management. St. Joseph's also runs the highly regarded Dillon Child Study Center for preschoolers.
The neighborhood's most respected public elementary schools, both pre-k-6, are P.S. 11, the 800-pupil Purvis J. Behan School on Waverly Avenue, and P.S. 20, the 1,000-pupil Clinton Hill School on Adelphi Street, two blocks into Fort Greene. Both schools offer programs for instrumental music, art and academic enrichment. There is also plenty of "meaningful parent involvement," said Lester W. Young, superintendent of Community School District 13.
For the seventh and eighth grades, many students move on to I.S. 113, the 700-student Ronald Edmonds Learning Center on Carlton Avenue in Fort Greene. It also includes two sixth-grade classes -- one for performing arts and one for the academically advanced.
District 13 has its own high school, the Benjamin Banneker Academy for Community Development. By next fall, the 600-student school will offer three majors -- pre-engineering, medical science and math, science and technology. There were nearly 500 first-choice applications for 160 seats, Dr. Young said.
Religious education is offered by the parochial k-8, 253-student Queen of All Saints School. Annual tuition is $2,250 for both parishioners and nonparishioners.
Graduates often head up the block to Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School, where annual tuition is $4,500. About 80 percent of the 900 boys and girls come from Brooklyn, as did a member of the class of 1961, Rudolph W. Giuliani.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A row of brownstones on Cambridge Place at Greene Avenue. Neighborhood was named for De Witt Clinton, who had been mayor and governor.; Steele-Skinner House, c. 1812, on Lafayette Avenue. Church of St. Luke and St. Matthew on Clinton Avenue.; "On the Market": 2-bedroom, 1-bath co-op at 201 Clinton Avenue, $115,000.; 2-family house with back garden at 139 Washington Avenue, $350,000.; 3-family house with carriage house at 128 Clinton Avenue, $675,000. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 24,674 (1997 estimate).
AREA: .52 square mile.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $39,655 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-FAMILY HOUSE: $600,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $500,000.
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $250,000.
MID-RANGE RENT FOR A 1-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,200.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 5 miles.
RUSH-HOUR TRAVEL TO MIDTOWN: 26 minutes on C train.
GOVERNMENT: City Councilwoman Mary Pinkett, Democrat.
CODES: Area, 718, 347; ZIP, 11205, 11238.
ARTS & EATS: Two neighborhood coffee shops share Clinton Hill's artistic orientation. Tillie's of Brooklyn, at DeKalb and Vanderbilt Avenues, features exhibits and performances by artists, authors and musicians. Patricia Mulcahy, a former book editor who is a co-owner, even prepares a monthly one-sheet newsletter, Tillie's Tribune. The smaller Edge City Cafe, at 293 Grand Avenue, displays paintings, photographs, hats -- "anything we can get on the wall" -- said the owner, Ted Harris.
 "A few years ago, we had an artist who did handbags out of banana peels," he added. "They didn't rot -- she had some way of preserving them."
 
Map of Brooklyn, highlighting Clinton Hill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN SOCIETY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN SOCIETY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HOME PRICES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); RELIGION (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (70%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



37 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2294 words

HEADLINE: Time Travel on Rails

BYLINE: By VALERIE GLADSTONE; VALERIE GLADSTONE is a freelance writer who travels to Spain frequently.

 BODY:
STANDING in the big, bright, modern Santa Justa railway station in Seville, Al Andalus looked anachronistic, like Greta Garbo surrounded by hip 90's starlets. The brown-and-gold luxury train, most of its cars built in the 1920's, exuded understated class in the midst of the other sleek but characterless trains. Over the loudspeaker the names of cities rang out, and people hurried to their gates. No such public fanfare for those of us who were soon to travel on Al Andalus -- reservations must be made weeks in advance.
Except for the generator wagon, kitchen car and engine, all 14 of Al Andalus's cars were built in Britain, France and Spain between 1928 and 1930, a time when rail travel enjoyed enormous cachet. King Edward VIII of Britain used the sleeping cars in the 1930's on his travels between Calais and the Cote d'Azur. But during World War II and for decades afterward they languished in rail yards, until 1983, when Spain's Minister of Tourist Transportation, Julian Garcia Valverde, decided to restore and reinvent them as a tourist train. 
 With the Orient Express as inspiration but not as model -- the Orient Express didn't make sightseeing stops and was far more expensive -- Al Andalus began limited runs in 1983 in southern Spain. Every year it becomes more popular.
In June, a friend, Terry Hudson, and I joined more than 60 other travelers on Al Andalus for six days and five nights, its last trip until September. It runs in spring and fall only. Although the train can be chartered anywhere in Spain, its customary route, two dozen times yearly, starts and ends in Seville, with stops in Cordoba, Granada, Antequera, Carmona, Ronda and Jerez de la Frontera, ancient cities with tumultuous histories and remarkable architecture.
As on a cruise ship, we debarked at each stop for touring and meals, then returned in the evening. The train traveled from two to six hours every day, often in the middle of the night and occasionally in the late afternoon.
Climbing aboard, we entered a small, elegant reception area. A young woman, one of five who looked after the passengers, greeted us and gave us the key to our sleeping compartment. Besides being fluent in English, French and German, these women knew the region thoroughly, and patiently tended to our motley group, mostly Spaniards but also a French couple, eight Britons, four Germans, one Japanese and four other Americans besides ourselves. The nationalities change every trip, but, a staff member told me, usually they're seasoned travelers.
It hadn't occurred to me that most people wouldn't take a vacation on an old-fashioned train unless they were either train buffs or looking for something a little different or had traveled a good deal. I, as it happens, fit into the last two categories and Terry loves trains.
Then one night halfway through the journey, I understood the implications of my choice. A group of us hanging out in the bar car, built in France in 1928 and named Giralda after Seville's graceful tower, marveled at how a few couples were managing to look romantic on the tiny dance floor as they swayed to such familiar tunes as "Autumn Leaves" and "The Girl From Ipanema."
Amused by the surreal quality of the scene, I remarked how peculiar it was to be in a sumptuous railway car in a tiny station in the remote Spanish countryside, drinking and dancing. "But my dear," piped up a woman from Manchester, England, "Didn't you realize the trip would be quirky?"
No, in fact. If I'd begun the trip with this in mind, I might not have been so upset by our small quarters. Worn and disheveled after a flight from New York to Madrid and a two-and-a-half-hour train trip from Madrid to Seville, we eagerly anticipated sprawling out for a couple of hours before joining the tour in Cordoba, our first stop.
As it turned out, a miniature poodle would have had trouble sprawling out in our allotted space. Al Andalus offers sleeping compartments in three sizes: standard, double superior, and club. Standard, our class, is fit for only one person, or perhaps newlyweds -- very young and extremely enamored newlyweds.
Two bunk beds practically filled the compartment, which otherwise included a pretty end table and lamp. The mahogany walls, elegantly inlaid with seashell patterns, did nothing to make things better when Terry and I bumped into each other four times in the first three minutes.
A garment bag provided the only space for hanging up our clothes. Luckily, Terry was the only clotheshorse. In a corner, behind a panel, we found a sink and mirror. While the bathrooms, outfitted with gold-plated faucets and shared with four other passengers, took only seconds to reach from our compartment, getting to the modern shower stalls involved a trek through several cars. Fine, if you don't mind walking what seemed like a quarter of a mile in a bathrobe, clutching toiletries, in a train reeling along at what seemed like 100 miles an hour.
I couldn't blame the travel agent or Al Andalus; no one misrepresented the facilities. We'd just economized and hoped for the best. Peeking into the rooms of our neighbors, I saw that the bigger compartments, some with toilets and showers, would have been quite comfortable and were as handsomely decorated as our own.
To keep the peace, I left Terry to unpack and hurried through the train to join the group boarding a bus into Cordoba. How ever small our quarters, I admired Al Andalus's decor. The interiors of the vintage cars, paneled in burnished mahogany, look like the elegant libraries you imagine in private houses in the 20's. Heavy ivory brocade curtains, tied with satin tassels, frame the windows.
In the reception car, which doubles as a lounge, a room divider of frosted glass etched with birds and flowers separates the front desk area from an attractive space decorated with dark green leather armchairs and large wooden tables and equipped with a television set, board games and playing cards. In the two restaurant cars, small cozy sofas upholstered in a rococo pink and dark gray filigree pattern nicely substitute for chairs on each side of the dining tables. Lamps shaped like seashells cast a rosy hue in all the public cars.
The visit to Cordoba revived me. Nothing like the fragrance of orange trees, the sight of red and pink bougainvillea, and the splashing of fountains in patios to soothe the soul. On the way to the Great Mosque through the ancient Jewish quarter, we passed old houses with flower-filled window boxes squeezed onto tiny terraces.
Then we came upon the mosque. Construction began when the Moors first occupied the city in 796 and continued for two centuries. With its endless forest of rose-hued, intricately inlaid columns, long arcades and interlocking arches, it creates an extraordinary harmony. Our guide pointed out some of the finer details -- the ingenious weave of arches, resembling a piece of monumental lacework, that lead to Hakam II's prayer niche and within it, the inscriptions in shimmering gilt mosaic on a blue background. For an hour, we listened as she explained its evolution.
Al Andalus picks its guides well. Almost every one -- in Cordoba, the Alhambra in Granada, the dramatic mountain town of Ronda, the sherry winery in Jerez de la Frontera, and Seville -- provided just the right amount of information, without suffocating us with extraneous data. A profound sense of irony tends to keep Spaniards from pedantry.
The combination of intelligent guides, a wise selection of stops, meals at colorful, traditional restaurants and a few entertaining folkloric performances means that you come away from the trip with a good understanding of Andalusia -- one that would take far longer to get on your own. Also, you are immersed in the countryside. Fertile green fields alternated this season with plots of brilliant yellow sunflowers. Steep, rocky terrain planted with olive groves gives way to sandy, marshy monotony. Every tone and color and rise and fall of the land brings you closer to its essence.
When I returned to the train that first evening, Terry and I agreed that it might be nicer to eat on board than to go into Cordoba for dinner with the other passengers. Except for the bountiful buffet breakfasts and the last dinner of the trip, we passengers ate in restaurants at our stops, many of them in paradores, the excellent Spanish government-run hotels in converted villas, forts, convents and castles. We were never disappointed by the well-prepared four-course meals.
Although our request was unexpected, the staff didn't hesitate to call the chef, Gines Navarrete Alonso, and ask him to prepare a meal for us. And how good it was -- a fresh white wine, some grilled sardines, still with the scent of the sea, puff potatoes, a green salad, a slice of tender beef with a light tomato sauce and for dessert sweet pears.
By morning, as we rode the bus up the steep streets to the Alhambra in Granada, we were in the swing of things.
This great palace, the last refuge of Spanish Muslims on the Iberian peninsula, rises dramatically on a hill. At the end of the 14th century its royal residents enjoyed a palace with a decor of faience, stucco and wood, elaborately adorned with patterns based on geometric, vegetal and epigraphic motifs. There are no harsh accents, no garish colors, only austere, subtle harmonies.
Although we spent part of most days learning about Andalusian cities, there were breaks. We spent one morning and afternoon at the Hotel La Bobadilla, a 1,000-acre country estate an hour's drive from Granada or Malaga, deep in the countryside. A few famous people have found it worth a stay, among them King Juan Carlos of Spain, Placido Domingo, Jessye Norman, Brad Pitt and Tom Cruise. Some of its highlights: several pools, lush grounds, limitless riding trails, tennis courts, and spacious suites, each one different.
In time, on the train, we made a few good friends: Americans from California who had just sold their insurance company to study religion and who gave us insight into how the Moors and Spanish Catholics wrestled for control of Andalusia 500 years ago; a witty English couple with Cockney accents, and then, of course, the woman from Manchester, who wanted to know what we "really felt about the English," and her husband, who soothed her when their kosher meals occasionally arrived cold. The efficient staff was apologetic and usually managed to correct such mishaps. The shared routine had a lot to do with the camaraderie that developed.
After dinner at the parador in Antequera, a few of us decided not to take the bus back to the train, and walked through the deserted town, some quietly singing, happy to be outside in the starlit night and having the unusual experience of returning to a rail station to go to bed.
In Jerez de la Frontera, an English couple who owned carriage ponies reacted as negatively as I did to the famous horse show presented to tourists by the Royal Andalusian School of Equestrian Art -- it struck me as circus tricks.
Thus, having bonded with almost everyone who spoke English, our last dinner felt like those final nights at summer camp when you can't bear the thought of leaving all your newfound friends. It was by far the best meal of the trip, beginning with waiters serving us a wonderful variety of tapas. The surprising, and very un-Spanish, piece de resistance was a baked Alaska.
Afterward, we retired to the Giralda. Imagine, at 2 a.m., they closed us down!
The next morning we toured Seville and finally and inevitably, in the train station where we'd begun, we exchanged addresses and said our goodbyes. On Terry and I went by car to the coast. Oddly, that night, alone in our hotel in our big roomy suite in our big roomy bed, we felt a little lost and a trifle lonely.
 
On the train and off
Al Andalus leaves on Saturdays. Its departure dates this year are April 1 to June 24, Sept. 2 to to Oct. 28, and Nov. 11 and 18. Trips start from Seville, with connections from Madrid possible.
The trip from Seville, including one night in a Seville hotel and six nights on the train, costs $1,339
for a standard double, $1,975 for a
superior double, $2,333 for club
class.
The trip from Madrid, including one night in a Madrid hotel and six nights on Al Andalus, is $1,584 for a standard double, $2,240 for a superior double, $2,598 for club class.
This year there will also be a special seven-day Al Andalus golf tour, with stops throughout Andalusia. Departure dates are Feb. 20, March 5 and 19, Nov. 5 and 26. Rates: single player $2,884.79; suite $5,835.81
Land arrangements include transfers to the hotel by private car, return tickets on the AVE high speed train on the Madrid itinerary, all meals and entrance fees to sites. The prices exclude flights and return transfers.
Al Andalus can also be chartered for golf tournaments, conventions, working meetings, seminars, bridge, chess and other championships.
For reservations, call (800) 223-1356 or (212) 686-0271.
 
Lodging
All prices are for a double room.
 GRANADA : Alhambra Palace Hotel, Pena Partida, 2, (34) 958-22-14-68; $189.
LOJA : Hotel La Bobadilla, Finca La Bobadilla, (34) 958-32-18-61; $240.
ANTEQUERA : Parador de Antequera, Paseo Garcia del Olmo, s/n, (34) 952-84-02-61; $115.
RONDA : Parador de Ronda, Plaza de Espana, s/n, (34) 952-87-75-00; $151.
CARMONA : Parador de Carmona, Alcazar, s/n, (34) 954-14-10-10; $149.
 
Restaurants
Except in Cordoba and Jerez de la Frontera, we ate at the paradores and hotels mentioned above.
CORDOBA : El Churrasco, Calle Romero, 16; (34) 957-29-08-19.
JEREZ DE LA FRONTERA : El Bosque, Avenida Alcalde Alvaro Domecq, 11; (34) 956-30-70-30.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Waiting to board Al Andalus in Seville. In the dining car. Farewell-dinner dramatics and a double superior compartment.; A street in Ronda, an ancient mountain town with a tumultuous history. (pg. 8); The Alhambra, Moorish palace on a Granada hillside. Main altar at Cordoba's Great Mosque, now a Christian cathedral. (pg. 9); There's no lack of energy aboard the Giralda, the bar car, built in France in 1928. (pg. 16) (Photographs by F. J. Rodriguez/Cover, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Spain highlighting Andalusia (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (93%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (95%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (76%); 

COMPANY: COTE D'AZUR HOLDING (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (93%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (95%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRAINS (92%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); CRUISES (72%); WOMEN (65%); WORLD WAR II (53%); 

PERSON: GRETA GARBO (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



38 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: The Lives They Lived: Louise Patterson, b. 1901;
The Red And The Black

BYLINE: By Robert S. Boynton; Robert S. Boynton writes often for the magazine. His last article was about Martha Nussbaum.

 BODY:
What a sight they were, the 22 young African-American artists, writers, journalists and scholars who boarded the German steamer Europa on June 14, 1932, for an adventure in the Soviet Union. Still giddy from the gala send-off the night before in Harlem, they milled around the Brooklyn pier waiting for Langston Hughes, who at the last minute ran up the gangplank with a typewriter, Victrola and a boxful of Louis Armstrong records. Most of them had never been abroad, but now they were on their way to Moscow to make "Black and White," a film about "Negro life" in America.
Sponsored by a committee of prominent literary radicals -- Malcolm Cowley, Whittaker Chambers and Waldo Frank, among others -- the trip was led by Louise Patterson, a fiercely intelligent woman at the center of New York's African-American intellectual scene during the final days of the Harlem Renaissance. A founder of the Friends of the Soviet Union, Patterson turned her spacious Convent Avenue apartment into a leftist salon, called Vanguard, for discussions of the Russian Revolution and the party's position on the "Negro question." 
 Like many Depression-era intellectuals -- black and white -- she was captivated by the promise of a society where racism supposedly dissolved under revolutionary conditions. A cum laude graduate of Berkeley with a degree in economics, Patterson had taught at several colleges before coming to New York, where she assisted Hughes and Zora Neale Hurston, who were writing the play "Mule Bone." With her literary connections and leftist politics, she was the obvious choice to lead the trip.
 Arriving in the U.S.S.R. on the heels of the infamous Scottsboro Boys trial, the members of the group were treated like celebrities. "Wherever we go we are surrounded by workers, greeted and cheered," Patterson wrote in an unpublished memoir. In Leningrad, their train was met by a brass band playing the "Internationale." In Moscow, a fleet of Lincolns and Buicks whisked them to the luxurious Grand Hotel. Bus seats were emptied for them; they would be ushered to the front of every line. "For all of us who experienced discrimination based on color in our own land," she wrote, "it was strange to find our color a badge of honor." The trip served as a sort of a turning point for African-American intellectuals, providing concrete evidence of a full-blown international antiracist movement that supported their struggle for dignity and equality in America.
The movie they had come to make was another matter. The German-born director spoke neither Russian nor English; his only previous film had been an anti-imperialist documentary, "Strange Birds of Africa." When rehearsals began, he was shocked to learn that his "actors" had no performance experience to speak of. "Europeans, as well as Americans, seem to be victims of that old cliche that all Negroes just naturally sing," wrote Hughes in "I Wonder as I Wander," his memoir. "Other than two or three, the 22 of us who had come to Russia could hardly carry a tune."
The script was similarly misconceived, depicting an alliance of white Northern proletarians and black Alabama steelworkers who join together in Birmingham to fight capitalism as "brothers." Hughes suggested that this scenario was far-fetched. "But it's been approved by the Comintern!" a Soviet bureaucrat replied indignantly.
"Black and White" received caustic international coverage ("Negroes adrift in 'Uncle Tom's' Russian Cabin," read a New York Herald Tribune headline), and with its cancellation the group split into two. One accused the Soviets of sacrificing the film to win diplomatic recognition from the United States, while Patterson's group insisted that the movie had simply fallen victim to its own best intentions -- a sentiment that earned her the sobriquet "Madame Moscow."
At summer's end, the disillusioned faction left in a huff, while the others traveled through Central Asia, where they were impressed by the enlightened treatment the Soviets showed the dark-skinned minorities. Three members of the group settled permanently in the U.S.S.R. and Hughes continued touring for a year longer. ("Good-morning, Revolution:/You're the very best friend/I ever had. . . . " he wrote.) Patterson returned to New York that fall to take care of her ailing mother and spent the rest of her life working for progressive, antiracist causes. "Russia today is the only country in the world that's really fit to live in," she told The New York Amsterdam News. "I'd live there anytime in preference to America."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louise Patterson in the 1930's with, from left, a Lincoln Brigade soldier, the poet Langston Hughes and an officer in the Spanish Republican Army. (photograph courtesy of The Patterson Family/Associated Press.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GHG (ASX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) AND MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: GRAND HOTEL GROUP (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WRITERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); 

PERSON: MALCOLM COWLEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



39 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Q & A/Christopher Wigren;
Making a Job of Preserving Old Houses, and Buildings, Too

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK

 BODY:
CHRISTOPHER WIGREN, an architectural historian who is the assistant director at the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation, sees hundreds of historic homes in Connecticut and has a variety of suggestions where others can see them too.
He recommends, for example, a drive through the exceptional colonial history districts of Guilford and Litchfield. Then there are Woodbury and Southbury, which together make up one of the longest historic districts in the state and include many antique shops. Downtown Ridgefield, meanwhile, has beautiful colonial, federal, 19th century and turn-of-the-century homes that often served as summer homes and country estates. 
 He cites the Seaside Village Historic District in Bridgeport as unusual and unexpected. "These are small brick row houses in the Colonial Williamsburg style with beautiful landscaping and curved streets. They were very well constructed by the federal government during World War I and served as workers' housing."
He tells homeowners, "If you have an old house you don't have to make a museum of it. Buildings grow and change. It's okay to adapt old buildings to modern uses. Just be careful, look at the house and think about what makes it desirable. Those are the things to pay attention to."
Recently Mr. Wigren met at the trust's 1827 headquarters in New Haven to offer advice and discuss some of the issues surrounding preservation of old structures in Connecticut. Following are some excerpts from that conversation:
Q. What does the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation do?
A. The Trust is a nonprofit organization that promotes historic preservation throughout the state. We hold conferences and workshops. We work with local groups, We are advocates, standing up to say "Preservation! Don't tear that building down. It can be used!" We give what I call the "advice to the lovelorn service" to tell people where to find information and people qualified to work on old buildings.
Q. Where can people go for information about buildings?
A. Libraries are usually the best place to start for local information. The Connecticut Historical Commission does surveys of historic buildings across the state. They haven't got every town covered yet but they have a lot. They are a state agency located in Hartford.
We have just published a directory of people who are experienced in working with old buildings, such as, contractors, craftsmen, consultants who can research a building, architects, people who do roofs, stained glass, painting. We haven't checked their references. We always recommend that people ask for and check references.
Q. Is there any money to help owners of historic homes?
A. Very little. And no direct money. The state has just approved a tax credit for owner-occupied homes targeted to lower income areas in parts of Bridgeport, Stamford, Norwalk and other cities. It's set up in a complicated way. The tax credit is for rehabilitation of houses listed on the state or national register. It is a corporate income tax credit. The homeowner doesn't get the credits. The credits go to a corporation that participates in funding the project.
There is a federal income tax credit for income producing buildings either rental housing, offices or other commercial buildings. That's been around for many years. There are efforts in Congress to pass a homeowners tax credit on the federal level. It was in a tax reduction bill that the president vetoed. It had rather a broad base of support so there is a good chance it will be passed next year.
Q. How do you shop for a historic house?
A. If you're interested in a particular area, drive around a bit and look. Some real estate agencies have departments that specialize in historic buildings. The National Trust for Historic Preservation runs training sessions for realtors. We've done that in a small way too. We've taught a little basic architectural history to realtors.
We also publish a special flyer, the Historic Properties Exchange, that advertises endangered buildings that are for sale. These are buildings someone has threatened to tear down or are in very bad condition. Or the owner decided to give away a house to be moved. These buildings are often on their last legs.
Q. Are any significant historic buildings in danger in Connecticut?
A. We publish another list in our newsletter of buildings that are historic sites of great importance and are endangered. We targeted several kinds. We did a general entry about buildings that are endangered because they are not being maintained. That's called "demolition by neglect." Sometimes homeowners do it on purpose. Sometimes it's a homeowner who doesn't have the money or knowledge to maintain the building properly. Maintenance is the single most important factor to preserving an individual building.
There is a house in Bridgeport that is on a site marked for a community center. Late in the process the local preservation society discovered this problem. It's an 18th century building and in very bad shape. They want to make it a part of the community center. There's probably not much chance of it being saved.
We also listed modern style houses in New Canaan. They are part of another preservation issue called "tear downs." It's happening a lot in Fairfield County these days. Relatively modest houses are situated on pieces of land that are extremely expensive. The people who can afford to buy the land want a much more elaborate, larger house on the site. We wanted to call particular attention to New Canaan because it has a large concentration of modern style houses. A group of modernist architects settled in New Canaan after World War II. Philip Johnson is the best known. His Glass House is here. A large number of important modern houses were extensively discussed in the architectural press in the 1940's-50's. They had a big influence on the development of modern architecture in this country.
They played a role in the history of Connecticut. They are reaching the 50-year mark which is the basic requirement for listing on the National Register. Some would be absolutely eligible. The New Canaan Historic Society has been doing a lot of work to record the history of these houses for the last 10-15 years. One was torn down this summer. Some are being added to in thoughtful ways that preserve their original character. Some are being added to in ways that do not preserve their historic character. There is that economic and stylistic factor.
They were designed with a particular lifestyle in mind. They were consciously simple, designed very often with living room and dining room in one room. They had small bedrooms. They had an idea of family carrying on in one room in a way that people do not always want to live now.
Q. What's the difference between the state and federal historic designations?
A. There are registers that are basically lists of historic buildings. Connecticut has a state register and the federal government has the national register. The federal register is more difficult to get on. It requires more documentation. The basic requirement is one of four things: A historic event took place there. It's associated with a historic person. Third is important architecture. And the fourth is archaeological sites like Indian sites or the ruins of an old mill, factory or a house.
There are the same basic requirements for the state and national registers but the national register requires a higher level of importance.
Sites can be listed either individually or as part of a district or neighborhoods. It's easier in a sense to become part of a historic district because a house can be part of a neighborhood that creates it's own level of importance. There are hundreds of these.
The local historic districts are the only ones with controls. If you are listed on the federal register you can do anything you want to it except tear it down unreasonably. That's a state law.
The local district is set up by a town or city that establishes a commission who must approve any alteration to the exterior of a building visible from a public right of way except paint. You can paint it any color, add stripes or polka dots.
Q. What advantages are there to owning a historic house?
A. They can include good architecture, a sense of connection with the past. Sometimes it can even be a monetary advantage. There is a specialized market for people who value these qualities and are willing to pay more for such a house.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Wigren, an architectural historian, at the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation in Hamden. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG FOUNDATION (56%); HISTORIC PROPERTIES EXCHANGE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISTORIC PROPERTIES EXCHANGE (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (94%); HISTORY (91%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (56%); WORLD WAR I (53%); DIRECTORY & DATABASE PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER WIGREN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



40 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: On the Books, It's Still the 19th Century

BYLINE: By ALLAN RICHTER

 BODY:
DON'T think about trotting a horse on a Garden City sidewalk. And if you happen to ride south to Rockville Centre, it would be foolhardy not to slow the steed to a walk. Either transgression could bring a stiff fine and some jail time.
Operating a roadhouse is illegal in Flower Hill. Fat-rendering factories are outlawed in New Hyde Park. And you can't keep geese and ducks in Asharoken. 
 It will, of course, take more than the mere dropping of a ball or the turning of a calendar page to banish the 1900's from Long Island. But some of the laws still on the books in many of the Island's 95 incorporated villages hark back not to the 20th century, but the 19th. Even some ordinances dating only to mid-century evoke a pastoral era that had already vanished by the time the laws were enacted.
Many of the vestigial laws provide a window on early local efforts to preserve the Island's bucolic character. The codes tried to fend off industries that might have tarnished beachfront communities or marred agrarian and rural landscapes. And the laws had teeth: penalties included jail terms up to 50 days and fines to $250, a tidy sum when inflation is taken into account.
Take the anti-rendering ordinance in New Hyde Park, backed by a maximum $100 fine and 50-day prison term. The 70-year-old code prohibits "obnoxious bone-boiling, fat-rendering" refineries, where animal fat, waste and scraps were converted into tallow for candles, soap and glue, and carbon for refining sugar.
"Bone boiling and rendering of fat was a terrible thing in the neighborhood," said Vincent Seyfried, a Long Island and Queens historian. "It smelled God-awful, and people on a hot day couldn't open their windows because the stench was so bad."
Mr. Seyfried said western Long Island communities such as New Hyde Park probably were protecting themselves from the threat of encroachment by commercial rendering plants in Long Island City. But Long Island's vast farmlands likely sprouted a crop of independent renderers, said Tom Cook, executive director of the National Renderers Association in Alexandria, Va. "Wherever you saw farmers there was someone out there doing rendering," Mr. Cook said.
Apparently it's not so easy just to strike obsolescent laws from the books. A thorough recodification can cost villages up to $30,000 and a year's work, said Colleen Wight, managing editor of General Code Publishers Corporation, a Rochester, N.Y., company that publishes many Long Island codes.
To keep pace with changes in state and federal laws, General Code and some village attorneys recommends that municipalities overhaul their codes every 10 to 15 years. But villages often simply update their codes piecemeal as needs arise.
Martha Krisel, Rockville Centre's village attorney, said her municipality was overhauling its zoning code for the first time in nearly 40 years. But she said Rockville Centre is likely to retain an old ordinance forbidding "fortune-telling, clairvoyance and phrenology" as well as a prohibition against "breeding poultry, pigeons, horses and livestock."
Why? The village's zoning makeover is cumbersome enough, Ms. Krisel said. The village started the process during the summer of 1998 and expects it to continue for another six months, she said.
"It's a nightmare," she said. "It's a tremendous amount of work."
In November, the Village of Flower Hill tentatively adopted a revised code for the first time in 30 years, deleting obsolete restrictions on hunting and operating steam whistles. But after three public hearings, Flower Hill officials said they expect to wrestle with the recodification again this month because of some public opposition to new revisions in the village zoning laws.
Villages may have other reasons for retaining old laws. "Courts have ruled that certain code provisions are unconstitutional, but villages may keep them anyway because they serve as a deterrent," said A. Thomas Levin, a municipal attorney for seven Nassau County villages. "People who read them don't understand that they are unenforceable. The ones that come to mind are noise ordinances or loitering. Most of the old coded provisions have been invalidated by the courts."
Some village officials believe old codes supplement their zoning laws and underscore that certain uses are prohibited. The old codes are added protection in an increasingly litigious society where municipalities cannot afford legal ambiguities, they say.
In Bayville, bans on slaughterhouses and glue factories have remained intact despite three overhauls of the community's codes since the municipality incorporated as a village in 1919. The most recent recodification was in 1993.
"The code says we do not allow glue factories," said Victoria Siegel, Bayville's four-term mayor. "You can laugh at that, but it makes a statement about our village not wanting industry."
But Ms. Wight, of General Code Publishers, cautioned that municipalities could confuse the public as well as their own code enforcers by keeping antiquated codes. And because old laws are generally not enforced, Ms. Wight added, a municipality could find itself accused of selective enforcement.
Sometimes, however, a village code's drafters sometimes prove prescient. Eleven years ago, Garden City officials notified 75 homeowners that the basketball backboards mounted on free-standing poles in front of their homes violated a 1924 village code restricting "accessory structures." Although basketball was invented in 1891, the code was more likely aimed at sheds and fences.
Garden City officials still cringe at the memory of the international media attention attracted by the basketball enforcement. But the effort, as well as the village's ban on horses on sidewalks, was concordant with the careful planning and passion for esthetics that Alexander T. Stewart, Garden City's founder, brought to the area in 1869, said John Ellis Kordes, the village historian.
"He instilled in the village what he might have instilled in a child if he had one," Mr. Kordes said of Stewart. "From the beginning here, zoning and a certain standard of beauty and order set the tone for the village."
A similar application of an old code to a modern offense took place in Asharoken, a Suffolk beach community with a population of about 800. William Kelly, Asharoken's eight-term mayor, said that the village prevented a resident from using an extension cord across a road while building a deck by enforcing a 1926 code that prohibits stringing telegraph wires over streets.
Mayor Kelly said he considered citing the village's 1934 ban on keeping fowl to stop another resident from feeding the pigeons. The mayor and neighbors said the feeding has created a nuisance. But any effort to apply the code could be complicated. As written, the code prohibits only "chickens, geese, ducks and other fowl and domestic birds used for food purposes."
The mayor conceded that he had little recourse. "They're out on her property, on the roof and she feeds them and they fly all over the place leaving their stuff and then hover back on her property," the mayor said. "It's a 'fowl or domestic bird,' that's for sure, but she doesn't cook them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martha Krisel, Rockville Centre's attorney, is leading the overhaul of her municipality's zoning code. Nassau Boulevard, circa 1907, in Garden City. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times; Garden City Archives)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AND (AMS) (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: AND INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHERS NV (50%); ROCKVILLE CENTRE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKVILLE CENTRE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ORDINANCES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%); PUBLISHING (74%); HISTORY (69%); SUGAR MFG (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



41 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: Tenants for Office Space Grow In New Westchester Prosperity

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
FOR more than a decade, the vacant International Business Machines building here served as a harsh reminder of not only this city's persistent economic tribulations but also of the weak economy of the entire county.
Now the building's renaissance -- thanks to a facelift that includes a new lobby, a health club and renovated office suites -- confirms what many have been hoping for: that Westchester has entered a new period of prosperity. 
 In many respects during the last 10 years, the former I.B.M. office building was a bellwether for Westchester's economic health.
During much of the 1990's, when the 381,000-square-foot building at 360 Hamilton Avenue sat empty with no suitors, the rest of the county was also struggling.
Throughout Westchester, large companies had moved away, and others like I.B.M. had downsized and consolidated, leaving large tracts of office space empty.
White Plains, the center of corporate activity in the 1980's and the hardest-hit area during downsizing, became "the poster child for the malaise of the market," observed Dean J. Shapiro, the executive director for Insignia/ESG, a commercial real estate concern.
Commercial vacancy rates in White Plains soared above 30 percent as recently as the fourth quarter of 1998, with buildings, like the one formerly occupied by I.B.M. here, standing empty.
But about a year ago, after Reckson Associates, a real estate investment trust in Valhalla, spied a rebound in the offing, it poured $15 million into renovating the structure in White Plains and sought new tenants. They were right to do so, because by the end of 1999, the vacancy rate for White Plains had dropped to 22.35 percent, and the rate for the county was also falling.
Merrill Lynch further confirmed Reckson's optimism by signing a lease for part of the Hamilton Avenue property, and many other deals are pending for space in the building, said Mr. Shapiro, whose real estate concern has offices in Manhattan, Stamford and Elmsford.
From the point of view of Salvatore J. Carrera, the county's Director of Economic Development and Real Estate, at least part of the economic success in Westchester can be attributed to the fact that for the second year in a row, property taxes are down.
As a result, most property owners are looking forward to a 1.8 percent or more decrease in their tax bills this year.
"Tax decreases are the kind of news that individuals and businesses like to hear," said Larry S. Schwartz, the chief adviser to County Executive Andrew J. Spano.
But contrary to the trends of the 1980's when corporate giants like I.B.M. ruled, the majority of business growth for 2000 and beyond is likely to take place among moderate-size companies, both Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Carrera predicted.
"We're focusing on the small companies rather than waiting for the big players, the full-building tenants," Mr. Carrera said, "because it just might turn out to be a long wait for the latter group."
Looking ahead this year, the county plans to announce the opening of a high-speed fiber optics network -- a 125-mile above-ground loop around Westchester that will enable small and medium-size companies to hook up to the Internet and thereby expand.
The private real estate sector, however, is not enjoying such optimism about the future -- even though sales of luxury homes in Westchester as last year drew to a close topped similar sales figures for the previous year. The picture is worrisome -- paradoxically the result of too much success, it seems.
P. Gilbert Mercurio, the executive vice president of the Westchester County Board of Realtors, said that home sales fell off in the last three months "by double-digit amounts."
The reason was a daunting lack of inventory, which is "putting a terrible brake on the market," Mr. Mercurio said.
He continued: "In a sense, we have been victims of our success, of too much of a good thing. If we don't rebuild inventory quickly, the sad fact is that the market won't stay good."
New construction, he said, is failing to keep up with demand, with the biggest lack being condominiums, followed by single-family homes.
The median sale price of a single-family dwelling in Westchester was $365,000 last year, 7 percent higher than for the third quarter of 1998, "the highest median price ever," Mr. Mercurio said.
Of 306 properties being sold for $1 million or more in Westchester, Dutchess and Rockland Counties in the first nine months of last year, 301 were in Westchester. Moreover, 74 properties sold for $2 million or more as of Sept. 30, with the highest reported sale being a $7.75 million transaction for a home in Larchmont.
Most of the luxury homes sold and built are in Bedford, Pound Ridge, Katonah, Chappaqua, Armonk, Somers, North Salem, South Salem and Mount Kisco.
But there were also seven sales for $1 million-plus in Pelham Manor and New Rochelle during the period, compared with only three for all of last year in those two municipalities.
New businesses, meanwhile, continued to flock to the county. Atlas Air, the third largest air cargo carrier in the United States, said this fall that it would lease 120,000 square feet of space at Texaco's Corporate Center in Harrison beginning in the spring.
The company, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange as CGO, is planning to invest $8 million in Westchester on construction and new equipment and add jobs over the next five years as part of an expansion plan.
Initially, 295 employees will be moved from a division at Kennedy International Airport, and an additional 55 will come from its headquarters in Golden, Colo.
Its fleet of 18 Boeing 747's will continue to operate out of Kennedy. Atlas is a United States-certified air carrier for some of the world's leading international carriers, operating scheduled flights on behalf of its customer airlines to 101 cities in 46 countries.
Michael Chowdry, chairman, chief executive officer and president of Atlas, said that new contracts and customers had produced a 42 percent increase in the company's revenues last year, prompting staff increases.
"We had outgrown our facilities in Golden and at JFK, and the lease on the JFK facility was set to expire in June of next year," Mr. Chowdry said.
In Yonkers, after much planning and debate, a large shopping center finally opened in September with Stew Leonard's, a Disneyesque supermarket featuring animated dancing cows and singing milk cartons.
The 135,000-square-foot market is part of a retail complex with a 103,000-square-foot Home Depot -- scheduled to open on Thursday -- and a 135,000-square-foot Costco, which opened on Oct. 28. Edward A. Sheeran, executive director of economic development for Yonkers, said that the complex would be responsible for "the largest influx of jobs in a six-month period in Yonkers' history."
Several more projects are expected to add even more jobs.
The Marriot and Hilton hotel chains have each signed contracts to build at the new shopping center in Yonkers, and discussions are under way for a convention center, to be built across the highway from Stew Leonard's by the Philadelphia-based Fort Washington Expo Center.
Also, the Yonkers City Council last month approved plans for a 75,500-square-foot Super Stop & Shop supermarket at the Cross County Shopping Center despite vocal and persistent opposition from neighbors.
Still undecided is the future of the 100-acre Yonkers Raceway, "the best piece of commercial property going," Mr. Sheeran said. The raceway has been for sale for more than a year.
Another southern Westchester city, New Rochelle, also experienced an economically robust year in 1999 with the opening of the New Roc City entertainment center, built by New Roc Associates in White Plains. Capelli also built a 220-foot-high replica of the 984-foot Eiffel Tower at the family entertainment center on the site of the former New Rochelle Mall.
In Mount Vernon, city officials have just announced the hiring of Hospitality Valuation Services International of Mineola on Long Island to conduct a feasibility study for a proposed $110 million hotel and sports complex.
And in White Plains after several delays, the city is finally "close to wrapping up negotiations" on a proposal by Tishman Speyer Properties for a $175 million mega-movie theater and shopping center in the former Macy's building on Mamaroneck Avenue, said George Gretsas, a spokesman for Mayor Joseph M. Delfino. The project will include a 24-screen, 5,200-seat theater and a garage for 2,000 cars.
Also, the Westchester division of New York Presbyterian Hospital last month released its master plan for a 300,000-square-foot shopping center, 450 single-family homes and a 61-acre park, which would be open to the public. "All that, and building permits are exploding off the charts," Mr. Gretsas said.
As a result of all the economic activity, the number of jobs in the county in November was 414,300, which is the best for that month since 1988, when it was 415,000 jobs, said Frank M. Surdey, a regional economist for the State Department of Labor. "Just over the last year, the economy has expanded by 9,900, which represents a job growth rate of 2.4 percent," Mr. Surdey said. "That's extremely encouraging."
Manufacturing jobs in the county grew by 900 or 2.4 percent -- "which bucks national trends," Mr. Surdey also observed, explaining that the nation's manufacturing sector actually contracted by 1.5 percent.
The jobs most in demand in Westchester employ the skills of computer programmers and software developers, he said. The average annual pay in the county for such jobs is $71,548.
Growth is also being seen in both the goods producing sector, which includes construction and manufacturing, and in the service industries.
During 1999, construction jobs were up by 1,800 or 8.3 percent to 23,500 in November -- the healthiest for that month in the county since 1989.
Adding to the economic glow, the average work week in manufacturing in November was 42.7 hours -- almost three hours overtime -- which matches February 1995 for the busiest work week in Westchester.
Not only were workers putting in overtime but full-time hiring also increased, which was "a double positive," Mr. Surdey said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction earlier this year on a housing development in Eastchester. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); TAX RELIEF (64%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (62%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



42 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Charter Schools Enroll Few of Learning Disabled

BYLINE: By LISA SUHAY

 BODY:
When state education officials released a report last week showing that charter schools lagged behind public schools in the number of students with learning disabilities, advocacy groups representing parents were ready to say "I told you so."
About 6.3 percent of charter school students have learning disabilities, while in public schools the number is 12.5 percent, according to the report released by the Department of Education's Joint Committee on the Public Schools. The contents of the study ranged from recommendations for adding funding for districts where students move directly from nonpublic schools to charter schools to details of charter schools' weaknesses in dealing with special needs students. 
 Since 1996 the group Statewide Parent Advocacy Network (SPAN), which is based in Newark, has lobbied the state to pay closer attentions to how charter schools handle children with learning disabilities.
"Most charter schools in the state are ill equipped to deal with special-needs children and are turning them away," said DianaAutin, executive co-director of SPAN. "Worse, their early intervention programs are almost nonexistent and so the children who should be picked up are being missed."
According to Ms. Autin, SPAN has been getting calls from frustrated parents across the state who say charter schools turned their children away.
Jeff Osowski, assistant commissioner for the state's division of Information and Management, said there could be many reasons for the difference in enrollments.
"One is that a smaller percentage of parents are entering the pool because they don't want to pull their kids out of special schools and programs that they worked hard to develop," Mr. Osowski said. "Second is, is there an outreach problem here in that they're not getting to these parents? Also, maybe there is a problem out there with program availability."
In response, Ms. Autin said: "We told them over and over again that this was going to be a problem and they told us not to worry, that it wouldn't happen. In this case we really hate to be right."
In addressing another point of contention, the charge that the charter schools are "creaming" or collecting only the best and brightest students from public schools, the report flatly stated: "No so-called 'creaming' is occurring."
The study included a profile showing that black students make up 63 percent of the population at charter schools and 51 percent at public schools.
According to the report there are 47 charter schools serving approximately 9,000 students in the state for the 1999-2000 school year. That number is out of a total public school population of 1.2 million.
The report concludes that there are approximately 2,888 students on waiting lists to get into charter schools in the state.
The report also concluded that the schools' populations are "clearly representative of the districts in which they are located in terms of academic achievement, economic status and minority status."
Asked if he was aware of students being refused entrance to charter schools because they had special needs, Mr. Osowski said, "I won't dispute that SPAN may be getting these calls, but we haven't gotten any such complaints here in our office."
Mr. Osowski said the legislation that created charter schools in New Jersey required them to provide for the needs of children with disabilities just as public schools do.
However, SPAN contends that charters were given an out, a loophole, when language was included that allows the schools to seek waivers from all regulations except those pertaining to assessment, testing, civil rights and student health and safety.
When asked to comment on the waivers, Mr. Osowski said he was "unfamiliar with that procedure."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Parents visiting Soaring Heights School in Jersey City, soon after it opened in 1997. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHARTER SCHOOLS (93%); DISABLED PERSONS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (92%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (78%); PARENTS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); 

PERSON: JEFF OSOWSKI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



43 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2661 words

HEADLINE: Will New York Be Necessary In the 21st Century?;
Some of the City's Bright Lights Ponder the Future of the Metropolis

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
NEW YORK came of age when all that was new seemed to flow from the city, when crowded streets and the world's tallest building were matters of civic pride. Like all great cities in their times, New York thrived in the 20th century because it was a place where the energetic and the talented -- many from distant lands -- gathered to form a critical mass. It was the quintessential modern city, unrivaled in America, if not the world.
But New York is vastly different from what it was even a decade ago. Shopping-mall culture has expanded from the suburbs into the heart of the city, eliminating many of New York's idiosyncrasies. Newer cities and suburban centers have lured jobs along with innovators. And many have argued that the sweeping technological advances of recent years, from faxes to cell phones and especially the Internet, have undercut the need for a central city in fields like the arts, communications and finance, the very areas in which New York has been pre-eminent. Today, people can opt for lives that are less frantic than those typically led in New York. They can move to the country, or to newer, cleaner towns and cities, while continuing to do business with the click of a mouse or a remote control. 
 And so the question arises: In this new technological era, will New York lose its edge? Will it still be a magnet for talent and an incubator of progress? Will New York be necessary in the 21st century?
The New York Times asked some prominent New Yorkers, past and present, to explore these issues.
 
Jane Jacobs
Author, "The Death and Life of Great American Cities"
Cities become necessary because they make themselves necessary. It's not some mysterious bestowal from heaven; it's what they do. And the great service of cities has always been to solve problems as they become acute and provide the wherewithal, especially the knowledge, to other places on how to do them. That's how epidemics have been overcome, to a great extent. It's how drudgery has been removed from lots of tasks. It's how there have been new kinds of housing and new standards of living and new ways of educating people -- these all started in cities, and always have. So that's one service that cities do, and it is a service that New York has provided, and if it continues to be innovative in this practical, essential way, it'll continue to be necessary. If it doesn't, it won't be necessary.
Another great service is that they enrich civilization and New York has done that. And if it keeps on doing that, it will continue to be necessary.
But I can't prophesy whether it will continue doing that or not, and neither can anyone else. Cities make themselves up as they go along, just as languages do, and whether they're going to do it in a creative and useful way, or whether they're going to muff it, who can know in advance?
 
Felix G. Rohatyn
United States Ambassador to France
Maybe absence makes the heart grow fonder, but the more I'm away from New York, the more indispensable it appears to me.
New York is already the 21st-century city because it is the city that encompasses both total cultural diversity and a total commitment to intellectual property, which is what the 21st century is going to be all about. Whether it's publishing, whether it's finance, whether it's fashion, whether it's the arts, whether it's communications, whether it's information technology, or architecture, whether it's being a transport and communications hub, New York is actually going to increase in importance.
Every time I come back I get this jolt. Paris is beautiful, but Paris doesn't have the electricity of New York. Paris is like Greta Garbo, compared to Michelle Pfeiffer as New York.
 
Drew Nieporent
Restaurateur
Restaurant-wise, nothing beats the variety and the value of New York as a food town, and I don't see that changing. If anything, it's just becoming more vibrant, and there are that many more choices and places than before.
We used to take concepts from outside, like French and Italian, and we'd do all that food and bring it to New York. But now you have some really talented chefs who are taking the craft they developed in New York and bringing that to other places, and there are markets that really appreciate a New York product, not the same French extract or Italian extract. New York is developing its own cuisine culture that's past matzoh ball soup and corned beef sandwiches.
 
Luc Sante
Author, "Low Life: Lures and Snares of Old New York"
New York is not necessary for me. After living here 27 years, I am within a few months of moving out, probably to the country. For me, the things that I loved about New York are gone. They may come back at some point, if New York goes through another spin cycle, but right now they're not in existence. New York was the magnet for the members of the worldwide fringe, the eccentrics, the unemployables, the visionaries, the whatevers back in the days when you could still kind of live marginally here, which is to say until sometime in the early 1980's.
But now that it's so expensive to live in New York, it seems to have only one face. The city has always been about money, of course, but it had that other aspect, it had more than one face. At one time it was a seemingly endless labyrinth I could wander around forever. But now I have no desire to walk down streets of condo conversions.
 
The Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d
Pastor, Abyssinian Baptist Church, Harlem
If there wasn't a place on this planet called New York, God would have to create it. It is the best experiment in democracy that the world knows. The most diverse city in the world, it has a great mixture of the heavy, secular greed that is necessary for this kind of place to exist, but also the kind of balance provided by the deep spiritual nature of the people who live here and the institutions that represent that spirit.
If you are looking for a real attempt to get to one world, a real example of what the new millennium will look like, New York is it. And so we need New York as an example of how we can get along and work together.
 
Vartan Gregorian
President, Carnegie Corporation of New York
New York is still going to be the center of the world, more so than it is now. There are several factors: No. 1, the entire culture is becoming urban culture, worldwide, and New York is the epitome of that. Second, this is the most international city anywhere in the world, and I include London, Paris, Berlin -- name it. New York is also the ethnic capital of the world. It's a vibrant city, the perpetual revolving door for immigrants where one wave displaces the other. New York is not just an actuality, it's a potentiality.
As for the idea that people will never leave their homes because of the Internet, well, I'll tell you, I heard about that a long time ago, that videos were going to displace movie houses. People still need people. They like to feel the vibration. They like to walk on Fifth Avenue.
 
Jane Friedman
Chief executive, HarperCollins
The center of publishing in America has been New York City for eons and I think that that will absolutely continue. I think there is talent coming from everywhere entering the publishing world, but I think that the publishing companies themselves -- the editorial staffs, the marketing staffs, the promotions staffs, the advertising staffs -- will almost definitely be located in what will still be seen as the center, which is Manhattan.
I believe wholeheartedly in the Internet, and we are looking forward to the expansion of the Internet Age, but I still believe that just as people still want to go into a bookstore and touch the product, I believe that proximity to human beings is very important. So someplace is going to be necessary in the 21st century, and in my opinion, New York is the best of those someplaces.
 
Leonard S. Riggio
Chief executive, Barnes & Noble
As long as it's still here, New York will still be necessary. And the Internet and e-commerce are not changing that. On the contrary, New York City is on the way to becoming -- is -- the world's greatest shopping center. Retail space is gone, retail rents are at all-time highs, and moving up every day. If anything, the city is threatened with being run over by retailers. The thing we need in our New York City stores now are wall-stretchers.
To me, the Internet is delivering, and it will only get better. Some people and some companies and even some cities may become victims, but New York sure as hell isn't one of them.
 
Ada Louise Huxtable
Architecture critic
I think New York will be absolutely necessary, and I don't think it depends on the architecture. I think it depends on the creative energy of this place; it's not just an economic center, it's an arts center, a place where everybody comes to do creative work, as well as to make a lot of money. And that makes New York unique, and absolutely irreplaceable.
So that if that's the way life is still going to be going in the next century, then it's still going to be necessary.
 
George E. Rupp
President, Columbia University
I am convinced that New York City will be even more essential in the 21st century. Globalization, in the end, enhances the eminence of world cities. Global cities will continue to be irreplaceable as centers for face-to-face interaction, intergovernmental deliberations and international finance and as the indispensable locus for global media and world-class arts and performance. That will only be more the case as the world becomes more interconnected.

Dr. Arnold J. Levine
President, Rockefeller University
There's a study at the Institute of Medicine that I haven't seen in detail, but I've looked at it a little bit, and it actually projects a very rapid growth rise in science here in New York. Universities like Mount Sinai Medical School, Cornell Medical School, Rockefeller University are planning expansions in the biological and medical sciences. There will literally be thousands of new scientists who will be coming into the New York City environment over the next 10 years and who are going to be working in brand new laboratories that are being built.
 
Mike Wallace
Historian, co-author, "Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898"
From a planetary perspective, New York has for centuries been a crucial node in the global circulation of capital, labor, information, commodities and cultures. After World War II, we emerged as the center of the capitalist world system, and though we now must share the global spotlight with other world cities, so long as the United States remains the world's dominant economic and military power, New York's status -- and hence, "necessity" -- is not likely to change fundamentally. Still, given the vigorous competition, sustaining our position will require public and private initiatives as smart and bold as our forebears' digging of the Erie Canal.
From a national perspective, the city's "necessity" -- which had waxed steadily from the 1790's -- began to wane after the 1930's, a consequence of the growth of the Federal state, the rise of sunbelt/gunbelt competitors, the loss of manufacturing and commercial pre-eminence, the erosion of hegemony over cultural production. Yet if political competition and disaggregative economic forces have seriously undermined our former national supremacy, we remain a major hub of commerce, finance, business services, fashion, arts, media, specialized manufacturing and tourism. We are well positioned to maintain this status quo, but only if we keep moving, keep building on inherited advantages and seizing upon new possibilities.
From a third, local perspective, New York will continue to be "necessary" for the millions of us who live here. Indeed the city has long thrived in part by generating -- and meeting -- its own vast demand for food, transport, shelter and entertainment. Happily, many of the interventions we should make to maintain and enhance our quality of life will also improve our standing in global and national arenas.
 
Robert A. Caro
Author, "The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York"
Of course New York will be necessary -- for the same reasons it has always been necessary. New York is the melting pot, the great cauldron of the planet. Into it are thrown all of the diverse peoples and cultures of the entire world, and in New York those cultures mix and churn and swirl together. Each of them retains its identity, but somehow out of all of this churning and swirling comes something greater than all of them put together.
The reasons New York fulfills this function have to do, in part, with density and a concentration of peoples. Because there are so many people here, and they live so closely side by side, there are enough of them and enough interactions between them to reach a critical mass that produces a unique vitality, energy, creativity -- an explosion of vitality and creativity, really.
 
Judith Jamison
Artistic director, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater
If great artists still come here, this will still be the place. This is where the world discovers great artists, everybody knows that: New York is for the arts. All those old cliches about how you can play anywhere if you can play New York, they're all true. That won't change.
Anybody who is creative will tell you that they can do it in the dark, in the closet -- wherever they are, they're going to shine. But if you're going to have this brilliance be delivered in Technicolor and in three dimensions, then you have to come to New York.
 
Graciela Daniele
Theater director and choreographer
I don't know whether New York will be necessary -- is any city really necessary? Great cities throughout history, in great cultures -- as great, or many greater than America -- disappeared, and the world continued and new communities were formed some place else. So, taking the big picture, I don't know if the word is necessary.
If nothing catastrophic happens to New York, or to America or to the world, I think New York would always be the point in the world where people will come, like bees in search of pollen.
It is something that appeals to artists from all over the world, and in that sense, I believe it doesn't matter what happens -- corporations coming into the theater, or Disney taking over -- it will always be the place people come to, not for the myth of Broadway, but because it's a very extraordinary cultural island.
 
Shelly Lazarus
Chief executive, Ogilvy & Mather
In advertising, you have to go where people want to live, and creative people love living in New York. There are other places, of course, London, Singapore, for example; Johannesburg and Cape Town are also wonderful sources of talent. But New York is absolutely key for what we deliver to clients. This is a business of ideas, and for ideas you need some stimulation. And if you're looking for stimulation, New York is still the place to be.
 
Nathan Leventhal
President, Lincoln Center
I think New York has always been irreplaceable as the cultural capital of the world. Look around this country today and show me a city that has one-tenth the number of theaters and performance spaces New York has, or even a twentieth. That has not changed in the whole course of the 20th century, nobody has seriously challenged New York in the area of live performance either in this country or around the world, and I suspect that will continue well into the next millennium.
Basically, life everywhere else is a tryout for New York.
 
Lorne Michaels
Executive producer, "Saturday Night Live"
New York is kind of a mythic city, a place where just about anything can happen, and where almost nothing is shocking -- both the worst and the best.
Will it still be necessary in the future? It depends on whether you think frustration is good for people.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Times Square, December 1999. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 1); (Photographs by Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



44 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK BOOKSHELF;
An Immigrant's View, the Art of Trash, a Phantom's Lair: All Between Covers in 1999

 BODY:

'TIS
By Frank McCourt
Scribner
(Hardcover, $26)
The first officer told me Albany was a city far up the Hudson River, capital of New York State. He said Albany had all the charm of Limerick, ha ha ha, a great place to die but not a place where you'd want to get married or rear children. He was from Dublin and knew I was from Limerick and when he sneered at Limerick I didn't know what to do. I'd like to destroy him with a smart remark but then I'd look at myself in the mirror, pimply face, sore eyes, and bad teeth and know I could never stand up to anyone, especially a first officer with a uniform and a promising future as master of his own ship. Then I'd say to myself, Why should I care what anyone says about Limerick anyway? All I had there was misery. 
 Then the peculiar thing would happen. I'd sit on a deck chair in the lovely October sun with the gorgeous blue Atlantic all around me and try to imagine what New York would be like. I'd try to see Fifth Avenue or Central Park or Greenwich Village where everyone looked like movie stars, powerful tans, gleaming white teeth. But Limerick would push me into the past. Instead of me sauntering up Fifth Avenue with the tan, the teeth, I'd be back in the lanes of Limerick, women standing at doors chatting away and pulling their shawls around their shoulders, children with faces dirty from bread and jam, playing and laughing and crying to their mothers.
 
WASTE AND WANT: A SOCIAL HISTORY OF TRASH
By Susan Strasser
Metropolitan Books
(Hardcover, $27.50)
Artists employed found materials to make statements specifically about the environment and about the connections between trash and consumerism. Jac Leirner, a Brazilian artist, used airplane boarding passes and plastic shopping bags from museum shops around the world. "Can Man," a New York Performance artist named Gene Pool, rode up to public places on his unicycle, wearing a suit made of five hundred aluminum cans. Mierle Laderman Ukeles, the unsalaried artist-in-residence of New York's Department of Sanitation, constructed "Ceremonial Arch Honoring Service Workers in the New Service Economy" from the castoffs of the city's public sevice agencies, including gauges from the Fresh Kills landfill, mailbags, police walkie-talkies, street cleaning brushes, and hundreds of used gloves. Trash was Ukeles's topic as well as her medium; her other pieces included "Touch Sanitation" (1979-80), an eleven-month performance in which she shook hands with all eighty-five hundred of the city's sanitation workers, and "The Social Mirror" (1983), a sanitation truck resurfaced in mirrors.
 
THE PHANTOM OF MANTHATTAN
By Frederick Forsyth
St. Martin's Press
(Hardcover, $30)
Every day, summer or winter, rain or shine, I rise early. I dress and come up from my quarters to this small square rooftop terrace atop the pinnacle of the highest skyscraper in all New York. From here, depending upon which side of the square I stand, I can look west across the Hudson River toward the open green lands of New Jersey. Or north towards the midtown and uptown sections of this amazing island so full of wealth and filth, extravagance and poverty, vice and crime. Or south towards the open sea, which leads back to Europe and the bitter road I have traveled. Or east across the river to Brooklyn and, lost in the sea mist, the lunatic enclave called Coney Island, the original source of my wealth.
And, I, who spent seven years terrorized by a brutish father, nine an animal chained in a cage, eleven an outcast in the cellars below the Paris Opera and ten fighting my way up from the fish-gutting sheds of Gravesend Bay to this eminence, know that I now have wealth and power beyond the dreams of Croesus. So I look down on this sprawling city and I think: how I hate and despise you, Human Race.
 
THE MUSIC LESSON
By Katharine Weber
Crown Publishers
(Hardcover, $21; paperback, $12)
Mickey had told me that he had grown up in the village of Rosscarbery, in County Cork, before leaving to attend Trinity College in Dublin -- the first family member to do so, he said with pride -- and he seemed pleased that my automatic response was to identify Rosscarbery as the birthplace of O'Donovan Rossa and Michael Collins.
"You've been home, of course?"
"Never."
"A sin you'll soon have to rectify," Mickey said merrily as he held the door to E.A.T. open for me. Two girls of about twelve in Nightingale-Bamford uniforms ducked under his arm as if they owned the world, and Mickey caught my eye and we grinned at each other over their heads before we went inside.
That sort of moment is rarely easy for me. Katie would be eight now. Would she be reading the "Little House" books? Rollerblading? Agitating for pierced ears? She had just started piano lessons.
 
THE BIG BAD CITY: A NOVEL OF THE 87TH PRECINCT
By Ed McBain
Pocket Books
(Hardcover, $25; Paperback, $6.99)
Monoghan said nothing. He followed his partner off, two black suits disappearing into the blackness of the night. The ME sighed, snapped his bag shut, and stood up. "I'm done here," he said. "She's yours."
"Okay to remove the wedding band?" Carella asked.
"She's no child bride," the ME said, as if Monroe's earlier remark had just registered. "Maybe twenty-two, twenty-three."
"Okay?" Carella asked again.
"Sure, go right ahead."
"Tell the paramedics I'll need a few minutes."
"Take your time," the ME said, and walked toward where a man and a woman in hospital gear were leaning against the ambulance. There was the incessant chatter of invisible insects on the soft night air. Carella knelt beside the dead girl.
Rings were often difficult to remove in the summertime, but this one came off with very little effort. He held it up to the light. There were three initials engraved inside the band: IHS.
"She's a nun," he almost whispered.
 
THE STONE WAR
By Madeleine E. Robins
Tor/Tom Doherty Associates
(Hardcover, $23.95)
Westbound service had been temporarily suspended.
"What's the fastest way into the city?" he demanded.
"To New York?" The old man was plainly appalled. "Mister, you don't want to go there. You heard what they're saying on the radio?"
Tietjen wanted to pick the man up and break him in two. He clenched his hands at his sides and said as levelly as he could. "Of course I have. That's why I have to get back. My family is there."
The old man shook his head. "If they're lucky they're getting out, mister. Jeez, I'd say out of it if I was you."
"You're not. How do I get back?" Tietjen's voice was icy.
The old man looked at Tietjen warily, as if he'd suddenly realized the man he was talking to was dangerous. He leaned back against the wall of the station, considering. "You'd have to drive all the way down, I guess, if you got a car, and the highway permits and such. But I head the Guard ain't letting people past White Plains anymore, not till they get word from the city that it's okay. And they got their own hands full with people coming out, now. Better stay here a few days, maybe. There's a lotta motels out near the college."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); HISTORY (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); LANDFILLS (63%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



45 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Matthew Hennessy, Barbara Weady

 BODY:
Barbara Noel Weady, the daughter of Sherry Brown of Hartford and Louis Weady of Guilford, Conn., was married on Friday to Matthew John Hennessy, a son of Mary Frances Hennessy and Judge Francis X. Hennessy of West Hartford, Conn. The Rev. Andrew Giardino performed the ceremony at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Patrick and St. Anthony in Hartford.
The bride, 30, will continue to use her name professionally. She is an associate at Shipman & Goodwin, a law firm in Hartford. She graduated magna cum laude from Tufts University and received her law degree with honors from the University of Connecticut. She is a director of the Colonial Theater Renaissance Corporation, which promotes neighborhood revitalization on the west side of Hartford. Her mother works in Hartford as the state director and campaign manager for United States Senator Joseph I. Lieberman. Her father owns the Royal Printing Service in Guilford. 
 The bridegroom, 29, is the special assistant to the president of the Southside Institutions Neighborhood Alliance, a coalition of Hartford organizations working to revitalize neighborhoods on the city's south side. He graduated from the Catholic University of America and is studying for a master's degree in public policy from Trinity College in Hartford. His father is a judge on the Connecticut Appellate Court in Hartford. The bridegroom's mother teaches English at Northwest Catholic High School in West Hartford.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RENAISSANCE CORP LTD (70%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (94%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); THEATER (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: WEADY, BARBARA NOEL; HENNESSY, MATTHEW JOHN JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



46 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
A Revolution Built In Mr. Ford's Factory

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN

 BODY:
IN 1942, in the face of the bloody tyrannies and colonial empires that covered nearly the entire globe, Aaron Copland composed "Fanfare for the Common Man." How defiant, even naive, it looked then. How prescient it looks now.
For all the real power that political rulers, corporate masters and technological forces have over our lives, the century just ended (I know, I know: supposedly another year to go) was shaped more than anything else by the passions and desires of millions upon millions of ordinary men and women. 
 Think how unprecedented that was. Before 1900, the middle class in Europe and the United States was a relative drop in the bucket -- mostly small merchants and a sprinkling of professionals; it scarcely existed elsewhere in the world. Few industrial workers earned a living wage. The largest group of people, even in the most advanced countries, still worked the land from dawn to dusk. Domestic servants of the rich were another big part of the work force.
Aristocracies and caste systems were the order of the day. Genuinely representative democracy existed in only a handful of countries, and even in those, all women and many men, including nearly all blacks in the United States, were barred from voting.
For all our worries today about economic inequality, wealth in the era before World War I was really concentrated. "In the half-century before 1914, most capital flows traced back to a few thousand wealthy European families," David Hale, chief global economist for Zurich Financial Services in Chicago, recently wrote. "Today they are driven by fund managers allocating the savings of hundreds of millions of people in pension funds and mutual funds."
WHAT brought about this revolutionary change, in which workers themselves came to own much of the means of production? Many things, of course, including the spread of democratic practices and public education. And one product above all others powered this transformation: the automobile, built on a moving assembly line.
At the turn of the century, the horseless carriage was widely derided: contemporary observers said it was simply a plaything for the rich, a machine to impress the ladies. But in 1908, Henry Ford introduced the Model T. And in paying his workers what was then the princely wage of $5 a day to make a car selling for $850, he helped create a consumer mass market at the same time he was offering something to satisfy it. The combination released a torrent.
"The mass-production automobile broke all the traditional boundaries that held people in place," said Daniel Yergin, president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates and author of "The Prize," a Pulitzer Prize-winning history of the oil industry. "Everywhere you go, it represents independence, mobility, freedom."
So, before we bury the 20th century, let us praise its essential icon. For despite the environmental ills that cars have brought in their exhaust trail, nothing else so represents the empowerment of ordinary people.
Mr. Ford knew exactly what he was after. "I will build a motor car for the great multitude," he said, "constructed of the best materials, by the best men to be hired, after the simplest designs that modern engineering can devise." It would be, he added, "so low in price that no man making a good salary will be unable to own one and enjoy with his family the blessings of hours of pleasure in God's great open spaces."
Well, maybe he miscalculated a bit on the open spaces. Our bottomless demand to own and drive automobiles has transformed the landscape almost beyond recognition, inexorably producing the highways we crowd onto and the suburbs where most of us in America now choose to live.
For all the attention devoted to computers and the Internet, the auto industry still defies comparison. Roughly 7.5 million people, about 6 percent of the American work force, are involved in building, selling or repairing cars and light trucks, almost four times as many as are employed by all electronics and computer makers. Three of the four largest companies in the nation by sales -- General Motors, Ford and Exxon Mobil -- make cars or fuel them. In 1999, Americans bought a record 17 million of the vehicles.
The phenomenon is global; there are more than 550 million cars around the world. Americans own the most -- one car for every 1.7 residents -- but even in crowded Japan there is one for every 2.1 people, and there is one for every 5.3 Britons.
Do all these automobiles represent too much of a good thing? Perhaps, but good luck persuading people to stop buying them. No matter what is done in the form of taxes or regulation to discourage their use, as soon as incomes in any nation reach a certain level -- on average, around $6,000 a person -- sales of cars invariably skyrocket.
In the United States, higher gasoline taxes would at least encourage the production of more efficient autos and slightly restrain driving. New technologies, like electric/internal-combustion hybrids and, eventually, fuel cells, should help further reduce the air pollution they cause. But don't expect more.
As long as democracy and free markets persist, personal transportation in some form will be ubiquitous. Why? Because that's the way we want it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (61%); ZURN (SWX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (F) IHS INC (61%); ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO (F)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LIVING WAGE (75%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); WRITERS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); WORLD WAR I (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); 

PERSON: AARON COPLAND (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



47 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Putting a Period on a Dot-Com Year

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE stock market was the story in 1999.
The Nasdaq composite roared, largely on the strength of technology stocks. Initial public offerings soared, especially those of money-losing Internet companies. Investors rewrote the rules of how to make money in stocks. No revenues? No earnings? No problem! 
 And so it is time again for the Augustus Melmotte Memorial Prizes, named for the scoundrel of questionable lineage at the center of "The Way We Live Now," by Anthony Trollope. Melmotte's stock manipulation scheme lured some of London's most established families, and the awards go to some of the most alluring men and women of business for various feats and foibles in the last year of the century.
 
THE MR. AMBIDEXTROUS AWARD
To Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. Halfway through the year, he began to raise interest rates, hoping to brake the economy before it reached inflation's gate. Then, to forestall Year 2000 problems, he flooded the nation's banking system with money, canceling out the slowdown that he hoped to create with his three rate increases.
 
THE "WHERE IS MIKE MILKEN WHEN I NEED HIM?" AWARD
To Ronald O. Perelman, chairman of Revlon. Struggling under a crushing debt load, Mr. Perelman put Revlon on the block. Yet he found no one willing to pay his asking price for the company. It's a shame that Mr. Milken can no longer bail him out with a sure-to-sell-out junk bond offering.
 
THE HEDGING HER BETS AWARD
To Jill E. Barad, the beleaguered chairman and chief executive of Mattel Inc. Her job is on the line, thanks to a stream of earnings disappointments and the botched $3.8 billion acquisition of the Learning Company in May, which resulted in $105 million in losses four months later. Despite the problems, Ms. Barad announced in November that she had recently bought 65,000 shares of Mattel stock at about $13.75 each. While some investors saw the buys as a sign of her confidence that the stock had bottomed, others surmised that Ms. Barad was simply hedging. If she managed to cling to her job, she would retain her over-the-top compensation ($4.75 million in 1998). But if Mattel's board were to bounce her, the company's stock would no doubt jump, making her newly bought shares worth much more than she paid for them.
 
THE INGENUITY IN ACCOUNTING AWARD
To Donald J. Trump, real estate developer, would-be president of the United States and chairman of Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts. In announcing its third-quarter results on Oct. 25, the company said its net income had more than doubled from the corresponding quarter a year earlier. The stock rose more than 8 percent on the news.
Only later, when a fixed-income analyst tried to delve into the numbers, did it emerge that the rise in revenue was really just an example of accounting moxie. Upon the closing of an Official All-Star Cafe in the Trump Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City, the casino was given use of the restaurant's fixtures and memorabilia for four months. Presto change-o, and Trump added $17.2 million to its revenues.
 
THE LESS IS MORE AWARD
To Carly Fiorina, the new chief executive of Hewlett-Packard. Under her leadership, the company -- which had been known as a model for full disclosure of quarterly results -- has significantly reduced the amount of data it gives to investors and analysts in its conference calls. In its fourth-quarter conference call on Nov. 17, the company said it would henceforth provide actual figures on companywide orders only when it thought they were meaningful.
"What we want to do is spend time providing accurate, insightful information," said Marlene Somsak, manager of media and financial communications for Hewlett-Packard, "not information that is potentially misleading." It was not immediately clear how dispensing more information could be misleading.
 
THE WHAT GOES UP KEEPS GOING UP AWARD
To the Nasdaq composite stock index, the highest flier by far of the major indexes in 1999. The Nasdaq, which trounced both the Standard & Poor's 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average, benefited greatly from the mania for initial public offerings of technology stocks. Almost every time a hot new stock came out, it went directly into the stratosphere and the Nasdaq. Because 1999 broke all records for both issuance of initial public offerings and first-day jumps in the prices of the issues, it is little wonder the Nasdaq was up 84 percent as the year was drawing to a close.
 
THE CAN'T BLAME HIM FOR TRYING AWARD
To Howard Schultz, chief executive of the Starbucks Corporation. In May, the java-meister told analysts that Starbucks was going Internet and would start a "destination" portal to sell furniture, kitchenware and other household gear in time for the Christmas selling season. As happens when any company makes known its e-plans, the stock rose smartly on the news. That is, until late June, when the company announced that the online plan would hammer earnings. Investors fled the stock. Even a July announcement that the Internet plan had been sharply scaled back didn't help. The shares are still in need of a jolt.

THE THROUGH-THE-LOOKING-GLASS AWARD
To fledgling Internet companies at the center of an investing mania unlike any other, one that convinced investors to turn traditional stock valuation methods upside down. Before the Internet came along, losses were something investors did not like to see on a company's books. Here and now in wonderland, the greater the losses, the higher the stocks fly.
 
THE MY MARKET'S BETTER THAN YOUR MARKET AWARD
To Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, and Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers and the Nasdaq stock market. In the race to build the biggest, best, most global and influential market in the world, both men wanted to be the first to issue stock in their operations to the public. As often happens with ambitious plans, however, the details proved too devilish to work out by year-end. The race was called off. Temporarily, of course.
 
THE DO AS I SAY, NOT AS I DO AWARD
To Harvey Houtkin, self-proclaimed father of electronic day trading and proprietor of the All-Tech Investment Group, a brokerage firm that teaches individual investors the joys of trading stocks furiously all day. Anybody with $25,000 and a dream can make a living day-trading stocks, Mr. Houtkin proclaimed on his Web site. Never mind that even the master trader himself lost $392,558 day-trading for All-Tech in 1998.
 
THE "WHO SAID INSURANCE ISN'T SEXY?" AWARD
To Martin R. Frankel, the nerdy Greenwich, Conn., financier. He is accused of plundering troubled insurance companies to secure the hundreds of millions of dollars that made him the chick-magnet he knew he could be. Mr. Frankel and a female companion were apprehended in Hamburg, Germany, in September, four months after he fled his Greenwich manse, leaving a pile of documents smoldering in the fireplace. While investigators try to sort out Mr. Frankel's financial dealings, he is cooling his heels in a German jail.

THE DECADE'S MOST EXPENSIVE HANDSHAKE AWARD
When Henry met Walter -- Henry R. Silverman, chairman of HFS, and Walter Forbes, chief executive of CUC International -- neither knew that the encounter would place them firmly in the record books. The two men merged their companies into the Cendant Corporation in late 1997, but the total cost of the deal didn't register until 1999, when Cendant agreed to pay $2.8 billion to settle shareholder lawsuits -- the biggest such settlement ever -- that grew out of accounting irregularities uncovered at the former CUC. And don't forget the $335 million that Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, agreed to pay to settle accusations that it had certified CUC's questionable bookkeeping.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Fred Harper)(pgs. 1&4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (83%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (83%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (61%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (83%); TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BONDS (77%); FAMILY (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RESORTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (64%); ACQUISITIONS (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); CASINOS (62%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (53%); US PRESIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); MICHAEL MILKEN (58%); RONALD PERELMAN (53%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



48 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WILLIAMSBURG;
A Venerable Kosher Winery Is Heading for New Jersey

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

 BODY:
One of the country's largest producers of kosher wine will close its Williamsburg operation and relocate to Bayonne, N.J. The company was pushed out by the appetite for new house among the rapidly growing Hasidic community, the owner said.
"We are still New York boys and we would love to stay, but we are not wanted," said David Herzog, the chief executive of the company, named Royal Wine Corporation but commonly called Kedem after one of its labels. 
 The State of New Jersey offered Royal $600,000 in grants and $8.1 million in low-interest loans to move to Bayonne. Mr. Herzog said he told city officials he would prefer to stay in Williamsburg if the city agreed to lease him the abandoned Schaefer Brewery so he could expand the business. But the city never made him a firm offer, he said, and last Monday he signed a deal to buy a 180,000-square-foot warehouse in Bayonne.
In a statement, the city's Economic Development Corporation said that the brewery is unavailable because the city is considering it for housing. It added that it had discussed alternative sites in the city and financial aid with Mr. Herzog, but that he was only interested in the brewery.
During the 1997 election, Mayor Giuliani promised Hasidic residents and local politicians he would consider the brewery site for new housing.
"I understand the city has pressure from the community for housing and it's a tightrope to juggle," Mr. Herzog said.
Councilman Noach Dear said he was still pushing the city to try to keep the company and the jobs, mostly held by Hasidic Jews, in Williamsburg. "The city can't afford to lose companies like this," he said.
But Assemblyman Vito Lopez, a Democrat who endorsed Mayor Giuliani and who has won financing for thousands of units of housing in Williamsburg and Bushwick, disagreed. "There is such a high demand for housing in Williamsburg that affordable housing would be a priority over the retention of jobs," he said.
Royal Wine, which moved from Czechoslovakia to New York in 1948, employs about 100 workers at the height of the bottling season, just before Passover. It will expand to at least 140 workers at the seven-acre Bayonne site, where it will move in May.
Bayonne has been waging an aggressive campaign to lure midsize businesses that cannot find industrial space in New York. Last spring, the city enticed Imperial Bag and Paper of Hunts Point, the Bronx, to cross the Hudson.
"Companies are having a hard time finding space in New York," said Michael O'Connor, executive director of the Bayonne Economic Development Corporation.
Mr. O'Connor said his city was after more than just the jobs Royal would bring: "David Herzog promised he'd help get us a kosher deli." JULIAN E. BARNES
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Royal Wine is moving to Bayonne, N.J., in May and closing its winery on Kent Avenue. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL WINE CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (90%); BREWERIES (90%); WINERIES (90%); RELIGION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (53%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



49 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: The Presidential Candidates, Formatted to Fit Your Screen

BYLINE: By Alan Ehrenhalt; Alan Ehrenhalt is the executive editor of Governing magazine and the author, most recently, of "The Lost City."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"You used to be big," Joe Gillis says to Norma Desmond, the faded movie actress, when he meets her in "Sunset Boulevard." You may remember what she says in reply: "I am big. It's the pictures that got small."
Perhaps this is the moment, early in an uninspiring and seemingly endless presidential campaign, to construct a Sunset Boulevard theory of politics. Or at least to raise the question: Has the whole enterprise shrunk down to insignificance as the new century begins? Or is it just the politicians who have gotten small? 
 Certainly they look small, in just about all the arenas in which national affairs are debated. The presidential front-runners, the leaders in Congress, the people who turn up on political talk shows -- all seem painfully lacking in a certain quality. I'm not sure I can define it precisely, but I know it when I don't see it.
Try to imagine an Eisenhower or a Kennedy of the year 2000 -- or even a Sam Rayburn or an Everett Dirksen. They don't fit in the context of today's political debate. It isn't because they were more brilliant than the politicians of the present, or because they were morally superior. It's because somehow they managed to be large figures to most of us who watched them perform. Whatever virtues Al Gore and George W. Bush and Dennis Hastert and Dick Gephardt might possess, they aren't larger than life. Much of the time they have to struggle just to be taken seriously.
I notice this, and then I think of a simple explanation for it. Americans who grew up in the time of Roosevelt, Eisenhower and Kennedy are getting old. All the stage sets of youth -- schoolyards, summer camps, Main Streets -- take on a disconcertingly shrunken quality when one confronts them a generation later. It's only reasonable that the actors would begin to look smaller as well. There's a caption from an old British cartoon: "Nearly all our best men are dead -- Carlyle, Tennyson, Browning . . . I'm not feeling very well myself." It's an appropriate warning.
But is that all there is to it? Is the shrinkage of public figures merely an annoyance of middle age that one must simply get used to? I doubt it. Dennis Hastert will never be Sam Rayburn, Al Gore is no Jack Kennedy, and George W. Bush will never achieve the gravitas of Dwight Eisenhower. There are qualitative differences in public stature for which nostalgia is an insufficient explanation.
Well, then, as Norma Desmond might say, perhaps it's the scripts that aren't much good any more. The larger-than-life politicians had larger-than-life issues to talk about: the battle against Communism, the threat of nuclear war, a civil rights struggle of inescapable moral dimension. They also performed at a time when many Americans, if not most, believed in the ability of the federal government to solve the toughest social and economic problems.
We live at a time of no such stirring conflicts, and of an eroded sense of governmental possibility all across the board. So maybe the present bunch merely suffers from an absence of good material to work with.
Still, I doubt it. There's no real evidence that prosperous times preclude big public figures. The placidity of everyday life in mid-Victorian Britain didn't prevent Disraeli from establishing a larger-than-life persona -- and maintaining it for decades. I don't think it's the issues that are shrinking American politicians. I think it's the roles they find themselves playing.
Consider for a moment Everett McKinley Dirksen, the Senate Republican leader who died 30 ago. In an odd sort of way, he was a minor-league Disraeli -- a small-town Midwesterner who dreamed of a career on the stage, entered politics as a substitute, and then spent a lifetime cultivating and perfecting his role as a florid, sentimental, slightly pompous, language-loving public orator. Like Disraeli, Dirksen traveled all over the map on national issues -- from New Deal sympathizer to McCarthyite to bipartisan statesman of civil rights -- but the one thing he didn't do was step out of character.
Like most good political roles of that time, Dirksen's required some cooperation on the part of the reporters backstage. They kept to themselves the fact that the master of pretentious eloquence used to walk into the Senate press gallery, put his feet up on a chair and poke fun at the act he was being allowed to get away with. It's true that some of the electorate was on to Dirksen every step of the way, but that didn't really matter. Whether one loved him or hated him, he was a character.
It is all but unthinkable now for a congressional leader of any kind to build and maintain a public role the way Dirksen did; it may be impossible even for a president. Ronald Reagan did it on the strength of a lifetime in show business and some excellent stage direction from the wings. But Bill Clinton has been unable to create any outsized persona, even though he clearly possesses an undeniable stage presence and no small amount of acting ability.
This is not merely because of his personal flaws; it is because we know too much about him. Not merely about his sex life but about his eating habits and his draft status and his introduction to marijuana at Oxford. It would have been difficult for any human being, even one far more saintly than President Clinton, to make himself into a legend amid the incessant scrutiny that politics in the 1990's has imposed.
The same thing is happening with Al Gore and George W. Bush. Each begins the campaign year as a front-runner struggling for an identity. One becomes folksy in order to seem less dull; the other becomes less folksy in order to seem more intelligent. But the bottom line is that neither has thus far emerged looking remotely large enough for the job.
We have been treated to too much information about Mr. Bush's fraternity days at Yale and Mr. Gore's brief career as a reporter, and this has led inevitably to a vague but disquieting sense of smallness about them. It has also led to the extraordinary rise of Bill Bradley and John McCain as alternatives.
Over the coming months, however, Mr. McCain and Mr. Bradley will undoubtedly begin to shrink. A barrage of mundane personal information waits to be reported and to trim them down to size. It is difficult for any public figure to seem larger than life when the whole country knows his SAT scores or his HDL count.
Every four years, after the election is over, reporters and academics gather to discuss why the campaign was so embarrassing and how future ones could be made more meaningful. Nearly always, the consensus is that the voters need more details about the candidates -- about their records, their biographies and their character -- in order to cast an intelligent vote.
B y and large, the press is now providing these details, and for the most part it is perfectly good journalism. It does create a better informed electorate. It makes the candidates more real, more familiar, more human. It also makes them smaller. It removes the quality of distance without which larger-than-life public figures cannot perform convincingly. And it denies the next generation a set of public role models that once motivated young people, however naively, toward careers in public service.
Norma Desmond almost certainly wouldn't like it. She would be reminded of the fate that befell Hollywood after the Golden Age of silent movies. "They took the idols and smashed them," she complained. "And who do we have now? Some nobodies."
It's not that the four main candidates are nobodies. All have been elected to high office more than once, and all are serious public servants. But the unending series of close-ups makes it harder and harder to see any of them as president. There will be times during the coming election year when Norma Desmond's complaint will sound like political prophecy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Martin Jones)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: NMS (ENXT-PAR) (84%); NMS (ENXT-PAR) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORMA AS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



50 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Fed Up With Lean Pay, Cabbies Head to Court

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
RIZWAN RAJA always considered himself good at keeping track of money. As an accountant in his native Pakistan, he was hired to help audit large companies, calculating their earnings with pen and paper.
But as the driver of a yellow cab in New York, Mr. Raja said, he watched helplessly as his hard-earned cash slipped away like the ticking of a meter. The industry has bled him for money, he said, and he has decided to sue his former leasing company in Queens Civil Court for $20,700 in damages and lost earnings. 
 Mr. Raja, 28, is the first of eight taxi drivers who are suing or planning to sue such companies over what they call unfair business practices, including the fees they charge drivers and the conditions under which they repossess the cabbies' lease-to-own cars. Mr. Raja filed his suit early last year. Another driver, Malik Majeed, filed his in State Supreme Court on Dec. 20. The others are expected to bring their suits in various courts before March.
Industry experts and lawyers say these are among the first instances of drivers, generally considered the weakest figures in the taxi industry, taking legal action against lease companies, commonly known as taxi brokers or medallion agents. Many of the drivers are being represented pro bono in their attempt to identify and hold accountable certain parties within a multilayered business fraught with financial pitfalls.
"This happened to me because I'm a new person, I'm an immigrant here," said Mr. Raja, who moved to New York in 1996. About two-thirds of the city's cabbies come from the Indian subcontinent. "I didn't know all the laws then, or the people to turn to, or the agencies I can look for if I'm being cheated."
For many drivers, the $1.5 billion taxi industry can be a morass of multilevel companies, arcane contracts and medallion owners whose names sometimes remain veiled by bureaucratic paperwork. There are 12,187 medallions -- essentially cab-operating licenses -- that have been auctioned off by the city and are worth an average of $275,000 each.
Taxi brokers lease a medallion from its owner and then rent it to a driver. Sometimes the broker and medallion owner are two separate companies with the same owners. The brokers charge drivers an average of $650 to $750 a week for a medallion and around $250 per week for a cab, which the driver usually gets to own after about two and a half years.
This system has its roots in the 1970's, after many of the city's large garage fleets, for whom taxi drivers worked as employees on commission, shut down because of the recession and a move to unionize drivers, said Bruce Schaller, an industry consultant and a former policy analyst with the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission. The current setup, with the drivers working as independent contractors, emerged after the medallions from those fleets entered the marketplace.
BUT for years, some drivers have complained that their leases have unforgiving terms. Mr. Schaller said the high cost of medallions often leads brokers to insist on cab-leasing contracts that put drivers at a disadvantage. Add to this the immigrant drivers' limited economic clout, he said, and what you often get are contracts that allow a leasing company to repossess a car if the driver is even a single day late with a payment.
"It's legal because that's what the lease agreement says," Mr. Schaller said. "But it's certainly not appropriate or a good way of doing business."
The drivers' lawsuits cover a variety of issues. In the complaint filed in his case against a leasing company called Tri Star Operating, for example, Mr. Raja claims that Tri Star seized his lease-to-own cab in September 1998, informing him that the medallion he was driving under had been sold. Tri Star, according to the complaint, informed Mr. Raja that he would have to drive a replacement car until the original one got a new medallion.
The complaint says Tri Star violated the lease agreement by taking back the original cab and medallion, an action that would result in Mr. Raja having to pay "considerable amounts of money" so that his original car could pass an inspection required by the Taxi and Limousine Commission for all cabs getting a new medallion. In his complaint, Mr. Raja said that a similar situation had happened to him before at Tri Star.
But Richard R. Rio, a lawyer for Tri Star, says that it is customary to have medallions sold in the industry, and that the broker had a right to take the original cab off the road temporarily as long as Mr. Raja was given a replacement. As for re-inspection costs, "Tri Star was willing to do everything for him to get his old car re-hacked," Mr. Rio said. If Tri Star mistreated drivers, he added, "they would be out of business."
In an answer filed with the court, Tri Star asked to have the suit dismissed and countersued the cabbie, saying Mr. Raja defaulted on his payments, failed to repair the vehicle and didn't pay tickets.
Meanwhile, the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, an 1,800-member drivers' advocacy group, has been helping the other six disgruntled cabbies with their lawsuits. "You would think that an industry that is publicly scrutinized and regulated would not have these kinds of violations," said Bhairavi Desai, the organizer of the group.
Ms. Desai said that drivers are often reluctant to complain to public agencies because they perceive those groups to be hostile. That perception has grown with rules adopted in 1998 which, in part, set stiffer fines and higher insurance premiums for cabbies.
The Taxi and Limousine Commission rarely receives driver complaints against brokers, according to Allan J. Fromberg, a department spokesman. He added that the disputes often involve contractual disagreements that are best settled in court.
Such was the advice that one of the other cabbies planning to sue, Vivian Borges, said she received from the commission when she complained about her taxi broker. Ms. Borges became a cabbie to prove to her father, a driver of 36 years, that she, too, could succeed in the business.
Instead, she said, after paying King Brokerage in Brooklyn almost $120,000 toward a medallion and a car for two and a half years, the company repossessed her cab in November 1998. During that time, she said, she often worked 100-hour weeks but averaged only $100 a week in profits. She said the company overcharged her by $16,000 and repossessed the cab because she had refused to sign another financing agreement.
"What they did to me, they ripped my heart out," Ms. Borges said. "I had my blood, sweat and tears in that car."
Nadeem Waeen, Ms. Borges's lawyer, said he planned to file a suit this month.
"Let her take me to court," said Angel Oswald, who owns King Brokerage. "I've got nothing to hide." He said he repossessed the cab because Ms. Borges owed him $10,000 in back payments.
As for Ms. Borges' car, he said simply that "it's back on the street."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rizwan Raja, a Pakistan native, is the first of eight taxi drivers who are suing or planning to sue leasing companies. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Chart: "LEDGER: Money In, Money Out"
Here are some of the financial facts of life for yellow-cab drivers.
 
Some major expenses
 
Cost of leasing a medallion: $650-$750 a week
Vehicle rental: An average of $250 a week
Vehicle maintenance: An average of $175 a week
 
Income and Workload
Average pay, after expenses, of a cabbie with a long-term lease: $90 per shift
Average shift length: 10-11 hours
Average number of fares per shift: 30
Average number of miles driven each year by a cabbie with a long-term lease: 33,000
(Source: Schaller Consulting)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); LEASING INDUSTRY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DAMAGES (75%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); BUSINESS TORTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); REPOSSESSION (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); PRO BONO LAW (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BRUCE SCHALLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



51 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Latin Stocks:A Wild but Upbeat Ride?

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES

 BODY:
VETERAN investors in Latin American stocks know to keep their seat belts buckled. There is a lot of risk south of the border, and the stock price charts are wont to zigzag wildly.
That they did in 1999, a year that began with most of the region enveloped in a deep recession set off by the 1998 Asian and Russian currency crises. 
 Major indexes approached the end of 1999 with substantial gains, coming off the low levels of the previous year and helped by a year-end rally. For the year through Thursday, Mexico's Bolsa index was up 80.1 percent, Argentina's Merval was up 28 percent and Brazil's Bovespa was up 151.9 percent.
As the new year begins, Latin American corporate profits remain spotty, but a group of new Wall Street reports succinctly showcase Latin America as a place where investor opportunities look promising.
A recent Merrill Lynch report had an ebullient subtitle: "We've had the Pain; Now for the Gains . . . The Stage Is Set for a Big Year in 2000." And a Goldman, Sachs report urged investors to take a close look at both stocks and bonds, predicting that total returns "will likely exceed those in both mature markets and possibly non-Japan Asia."
The risks -- from a possible inflationary spike in Brazil to worries about Argentina's fiscal deficit -- bring with them the potential for profits, especially because price-to-earnings ratios in Latin American stocks are roughly half those found among big-cap stocks in the United States.
The positive view of the region is based on an improving regional macroeconomic picture. Rising prices in agricultural and industrial metal prices are improving trade balances in many countries. Inflation is expected to be very low in most of the region over the next several months, which should continue to bring down interest rates and tempt local pension funds to move their money from bonds to stocks. Most currencies in the area -- with the exception of Argentina's -- are competitive on international markets.
On the political front, some new governments have or will be taking power over the next few months with fresh policies that Wall Street expects to be investor-friendly.
According to Goldman, Sachs, the change in the region's gross domestic product will swing from a decline of 0.1 percent in 1999 to 4 percent growth in 2000. The firm also predicts that $38 billion in new portfolio investment will flow into Latin American stocks in 2000, up from $24 billion last year -- this in markets with a total capitalization of barely $400 billion.
"We expect to see some modest but potentially very powerful increases in global investor allocations to Latin America in 2000," said Geoffrey Dennis, an equity analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. Those inflows, he noted, began in mid-October, prompting the end-of-the-year rally in the regional stock indexes.
Prospects for the region, not surprisingly, range greatly. Wall Street analysts generally favor Brazil, Chile, Peru, Mexico and Argentina, while they are generally bearish on Venezuela and Colombia, two countries with uncertain political outlooks. James Upton, Latin American equity strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, said he liked the outlook for two Mexican companies involved in construction. One, Cemex, has a strong and growing market share in Mexico, has no real competition and has "a brilliant distribution system," he said. It was trading near 52 Mexican pesos late last week; Mr. Upton says it can hit 61 pesos in 12 months.
Another, Corporacion GEO, is a housing construction company that is poised to take advantage of the country's pent-up demand for low-income housing; Mr. Upton says it could rise 35 percent by year-end.
 MR. Upton also recommends Tele Centro Sul and Tele Norte Leste, two cellular phone spinoffs of Telebras, Brazil's state telephone company.
Grace Pineda, a portfolio manager of Merrill Lynch's Latin America and Developing Capital Markets funds, said she was cautiously optimistic about 2000, although "we're always very skeptical when we have these strong rallies." She said she likes the Brazilian fixed-line and cellular telephone companies -- particularly Embratel -- as well as CBD, a Brazilian retailer. She also likes Televisa and TV Azteca, the two Mexican television networks.
Jane Heap, vice president for Latin American equities at Deutsche Bank, likes the growth potential in several of the region's banks. She particularly favors Bradesco in Brazil, since it trades at a significant discount to its competitors and has several industrial holdings it can sell to increase earnings. The stock, trading around 11.5 reals late last week, could reach 15 reals in 12 months, Ms. Heap said.
She also saw Banco Galicia of Argentina and Bancomer of Mexico as two banks that could benefit from increased consumer demand for products like credit cards and mortgages. Ms. Heap thinks they will rise 30 and 42 percent, respectively, this year.
But as always with Latin American stocks, there is that note of caution. "Is stability ever assured?" Ms. Heap asked. "Well, prospects have certainly brightened."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christopher Gall)
 
Graph: "Not Done Yet?"
Despite strong gains last year, Latin American stocks have room to grow, American experts say. The graph shows the stock activity for the year 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (97%); ARGENTINA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (97%); ARGENTINA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LATIN AMERICA; STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); METALS MARKETS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); EQUITY RESEARCH (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



52 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3077 words

HEADLINE: Was He Wiser Than the Wise Guys?

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
ON Nov. 14, The Gulf Times in the Middle Eastern emirate of Qatar published a glowing profile of a young Karachi-born financial entrepreneur named Mohammad Ali Khan, who had returned to invest in his native land after "a highly successful career" in New York.
"I have come back to Pakistan hoping to provide solutions, on the basis of my firsthand experience, in the areas where the country is lacking," the article quoted Mr. Khan as saying. It went on to describe him as a man who had made millions as "the proud owner of the first fully Muslim-owned investment bank on Wall Street." 
 Mr. Khan, 35, was also credited with founding a profitable holding company, U.S. Financial Group, whose board of directors "included 11 top business leaders of America."
"As the youngest chairman and founder of an investment bank in America," the dazzled reporter added, "his accomplishments are a little more than extraordinary."
Well, in a way, perhaps they are.
For whatever else he is, Mr. Khan is a fugitive from justice in New York, where state prosecutors accused him last spring of stealing millions of dollars from several of his brokerage firm's customers -- including some who also happened to be members of the Gambino organized crime family. The Gambino customers, one of whom is in federal prison, have expressed their annoyance by filing a lawsuit against the absent financier and one of his top brokers.
And U.S. Financial Group? Supposedly a diversified corporate empire, it apparently existed only in an inch-thick stack of paper that Mr. Khan filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The S.E.C. subsequently sued him, accusing him of "vastly overstating" his business operations in those documents and others he used to raise money from investors and attract support from business leaders, including the former chief executive of Kmart and a top executive at Forbes magazine.
Finally, federal prosecutors in Manhattan have filed a criminal complaint against Mr. Khan, accusing him of committing securities fraud by using lies and exaggerations to entice at least 55 people to invest nearly $3 million in his brokerage firm.
Of course, it is the plight of the Gambinos that makes Mr. Khan's story so intriguing. It is not unusual these days for organized crime figures to stand accused of manipulating sales of speculative penny stocks. But how could Joseph and Thomas F. Gambino -- themselves such experienced criminals -- have found themselves, as they contend in their lawsuit, the marks in just such a swindle? Their court complaint offers an explanation that surely resonates with penny-stock victims everywhere: They had "a relationship of trust" with their broker.
And that trust, the Gambinos contend, was betrayed.
 
The Beginning
An Elusive Broker At a Small Company
Mr. Khan's difficulties with the Gambino family arose from their dealings with Klein Maus and Shire, the tiny brokerage firm he opened in early 1995 in an impressive suite of offices on the 24th floor of 110 Wall Street in lower Manhattan.
People who worked there knew him as Ali Khan and described him as an attractive young man, slim and small, with gracious manners, silk shirts and European-cut suits. Born in Pakistan, he told people that he had lived in the United States since he was 19.
He was an intuitive listener. "He was so sharp at picking up exactly the right button to push with each person," said one executive who knew him. But his attention to business was erratic, veterans of the firm said, and he would sometimes disappear for months, staying in touch through calls to his wife's brother, Asim S. Kohli, the firm's young and inexperienced operations manager.
Among the brokers Mr. Khan recruited to his little firm was Maurice A. Gross Jr., known as Mike. Mr. Gross, now 68, is a big, dark-haired man who worked for more than a dozen years at Gruntal & Company in New York before joining Klein Maus in April 1997.
At Gruntal, Mr. Gross built up a fat list of clients that included members of the Gambino family. Thomas F. Gambino, who is serving a five-year prison term arising from a federal racketeering conviction in 1993, and his wife, Frances, were clients. So were a brother and a sister-in-law, Joseph and Arlene Gambino, and Thomas C. Gambino, a son of Thomas F. Gambino.
Joseph and Thomas F. Gambino pleaded guilty to state antitrust violations and paid $12 million in fines and restitution in 1992 to settle charges that they illegally controlled intra-city trucking service in New York City's garment industry. They are the sons of the late Carlo Gambino, who founded the extended crime family that was later run by the now-imprisoned John Gotti.
During his years at Gruntal, Mr. Gross lost a number of arbitration cases brought by customers who accused him of making unauthorized trades in their accounts, according to public records maintained by the North American Securities Administrators Association, although that does not seem to have worried members of the Gambino clan. Indeed, their decision to follow Mr. Gross to Klein Maus and Shire in 1997 was "a reflection of the trust that had developed" between them and their broker over the years, according to their subsequent lawsuit.
Neither Mr. Gross nor his lawyer responded to numerous requests for comment on the case, nor have they filed any response to the Gambinos' lawsuit.
According to Gabriel Bernaschina, a former executive at Klein Maus and Shire, Mr. Khan was encouraged to hire Mr. Gross by "a lovely old Italian gentleman, a retired vaudeville performer who lived in Hoboken and was a dear friend of Ali's." He knew the elderly friend only as "Vic," Mr. Bernaschina said. Thus it was that the investment affairs of a fairly demanding branch of the Gambino family fell into the hands of a flimsy little brokerage firm whose standards and ethical practices were policed by the ambitious but haphazard Mr. Khan.
 
The History
Second Looks At a Resume
Klein Maus and Shire may seem an odd name for a Muslim-owned investment bank. But the name had a certain logic.
Mr. Khan explained to an early recruit that the firm's first name was chosen by his wife -- in homage to her favorite fashion designer, Calvin Klein. "Maus," Mr. Khan said, honored a Dutch lawyer who had given him his first job in the securities business; "Shire" was part of the name of a London brokerage firm where Mr. Khan had gotten his start, the new recruit was told.
Some of that story might be true, of course. But the employment history that Mr. Khan was required to file with American regulators when he obtained his broker's license does not list any employment in London. Nor did he mention his London roots in discussing his life story elsewhere.
For example, Tariq Al-Rifai, a research consultant in Islamic finance in Chicago, remembers being charmed by Mr. Khan when they first met in the early summer of 1997: "I was very impressed by his story -- how he had come here to go to college, starting with nothing and driving a taxi as a student, and then made his money by building up a chain of video stores, which he sold off to finance his move into the investment side."
The resume that Mr. Khan submitted to regulators, however, states only that he had worked for two years at a video rental store while he was a student at Rutgers University between 1985 and 1989.
No video store fortune was mentioned in the documents Mr. Khan circulated as he tried to raise money for Klein Maus and, later, for U.S. Financial Group. But he did claim that he had earned a degree in finance and economics from Rutgers and boast that he had received "the Financial Times of Karachi award" in 1994. Mr. Khan acknowledged later, in interviews with regulators, that he never earned a Rutgers degree. And while Karachi's newsstands carry The Financial Post and The Times of Karachi, there is no trace of a "Financial Times of Karachi."
While still in school, where he met his future wife, Mr. Khan worked for a few months as a trainee at Magyar Savings Bank in North Brunswick, N.J., according to one regulatory filing he made; after graduation, he worked for more than a year selling insurance products at a Prudential Insurance Company office in Woodbridge, N.J., other records show.
His Wall Street career began in February 1990, when he went to work as a broker at South Richmond Securities, a now-defunct brokerage firm with a beefy file of customer complaints. By September 1991, after three months at another small firm, he had landed at yet a third troubled firm, Barrett Day Securities. There, he helped sell the cheap but high-risk microcap stocks that were the firm's bread-and-butter business, until Barrett Day's regulatory problems led to the firm's collapse in March 1995.
In various resumes he later showed to potential investors, Mr. Khan summarized these penny-stock experiences as employment "at two New York-based international investment banking firms."
 
The Expansion
A Brokerage Firm Appears to Thrive
Late in 1995, Mr. Khan began recruiting the management team for a brokerage firm of his own, hiring a compliance officer and chief trader from Barrett Day. He also approached Mr. Bernaschina, then at another small retail brokerage firm, offering him the job of chief financial officer over lunch at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan.
"He was very persuasive," Mr. Bernaschina said. "He said he was going to open up a branch office in Dubai -- that he had a prime location, and prime prospects."
Soon, Klein Maus and Shire was gaining customers and something akin to credibility, at least among the lawyers, brokers and accountants who operate on the fringes of the penny-stock world and cater to small companies trying to sell stock to the public for the first time.
Three small Canadian companies signed on to sell stock through Mr. Khan's firm on the strength of their accountant's recommendation, executives at those firms said. The accountant, Gerald Goldberg of the Toronto office of Schwartz Levitsky Feldman, said he had been introduced to Mr. Khan and his brokerage firm by Greg Sichensia, a New York lawyer "with whom we do a lot of business."
Mr. Sichensia, in response to a query about his dealings with Mr. Khan, said his firm "had an office policy of never talking to any reporters about anything."
In any case, Mr. Goldberg and executives at the companies who dealt with Mr. Khan all remember him as being impressive, if difficult to reach by telephone. "He told us he handled the finances for some major Middle Eastern people," Mr. Goldberg said.
The firm certainly seemed prosperous. On a Saturday early in December 1996, Mr. Khan arranged for a fleet of limousines to carry his entire staff and their dates -- more than 50 people -- to a sumptuous black-tie Christmas party at Caesars Atlantic City. There was an open bar, a band for dancing, envelopes of cash for gambling at the casino's tables -- all at company expense.
By early 1997, according to one former adviser, Mr. Khan was wearing $3,000 suits and offering to fly guests to the Super Bowl in New Orleans -- "with box seats, a private jet, the works."
That May, he was invited to participate in a Harvard conference on Islamic banking and financial matters -- he sent a senior executive instead -- and he attended a banking conference in Bahrain, winning a small mention in some newspaper accounts of the event.
As he traveled more often to the Middle East, trying to raise money from foreign investors, Mr. Khan talked more about opening a branch office in Dubai. One young executive at the firm actually sold his home, put his furniture in storage and moved his family in with relatives in anticipation of a promised transfer to the Middle East, according to Mr. Bernaschina. But a Dubai office was never opened.
Somewhere along the way, Mr. Khan was introduced to Joseph E. Antonini, the former chief executive of Kmart. Mr. Antonini had joined Mario Andretti, the race-car driver, in the formation of the Andretti Wine Group, a small vintner that makes wines under Mr. Andretti's label.
According to documents filed with the S.E.C., the company, whose shares trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, had engaged Klein Maus as its investment banker.
Mr. Antonini declined to discuss his dealings with Mr. Khan, and others associated with the winemaker did not return numerous calls. A spokeswoman for the company said that the deals that gave rise to the investment banking relationship were never consummated.
Nevertheless, in May 1998, when Mr. Khan filed the S.E.C. documents for U.S. Financial Group, Mr. Antonini was listed as a director, along with Leonard Yablon, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Forbes Inc., which publishes Forbes and other magazines. The Andretti Wine spokeswoman said Mr. Antonini, like others on the list, had "indicated he had potential interest in serving on the board of the new company."
"However, this interest was dependent upon the outcome of due diligence, as well as S.E.C. approval," she said. "To Mr. Antonini's knowledge, the S.E.C. never approved this filing. The board has never met or played any type of role in this company."
Mr. Yablon did not respond to messages left at his New York office. It was in February 1997 that a Gambino family accountant named Joseph Gluckman first noticed some disturbing activity in his clients' accounts at Klein Maus and Shire.
Lawyers for Thomas F. Gambino and his family contend in a lawsuit filed in New York state courts that Mr. Gluckman immediately faxed a letter to Mr. Gross, their broker at Klein Maus, challenging the transactions.
"What the hell is going on?" Mr. Gluckman demanded. "I opened the last reports and found a dozen off-the-wall trades. You know Tom only gets investments in quality bonds. Please reverse or sell all these trades immediately. Call me."
Specifically, the lawsuit asserts, Mr. Gross had used money generated by the Gambinos' income-producing bonds to buy stock in a tiny young company called American Champion, which owns, among other things, a pair of San Francisco karate studios.
According to the lawsuit, Mr. Gross repeatedly promised Mr. Gluckman that the trades were "mistakes" and would be corrected. Instead, he "accelerated the pace of the unauthorized trading" in the Gambinos' accounts, the lawsuit says, filling their portfolios with shares of American Champion and other microcap stocks whose prices had been manipulated by Klein Maus. In effect, the lawsuit accuses Klein Maus of manipulating the prices through sham trades among numerous controlled accounts, after which the inflated stocks were sold into the accounts of unsuspecting customers.
Mr. Gluckman continued to protest these investments and demand that they be corrected, the lawsuit says. "We don't gamble," the suit says he told Mr. Gross at one point. "Get the h--- out now." In July 1998, the lawsuit says, he even threatened to report Mr. Gross to the S.E.C. But after Mr. Gross promised yet again to reverse the disputed trades, the accountant did not carry out his threat, according to the lawsuit.
 
The Denouement
The Collapse Of a Little Empire
The S.E.C. nonetheless found its way to Klein Maus and Shire's offices on Wall Street. By early that September, according to court records, S.E.C. lawyers were interviewing Mr. Khan under oath about the activities of Klein Maus and his efforts to raise money for U.S. Financial Group. Yet he continued his efforts to get an initial public offering for U.S. Financial Group off the ground, repeatedly amending his corporate filings with the commission.
As for Mr. Gross, by January 1999 he no longer even returned Mr. Gluckman's telephone calls, according to the Gambinos' lawsuit. And within a month, the little empire on the 24th floor at 110 Wall Street was starting to unravel. Without Klein Maus's support, the prices of the stocks that the firm had been hawking to its customers were collapsing, and regulators were circling.
It was at this point, according to Eliot L. Spitzer, the New York attorney general, that Mr. Khan tried to move nearly $2 million in funds from various customer accounts -- including those of Thomas F. and Frances Gambino -- to an account in Dubai.
Alerted by customer complaints, Mr. Spitzer and the firm's clearing broker were able to reverse the transfer, and the money was returned to the customer accounts.
On March 9, federal investigators obtained a search warrant for the premises occupied by Klein Maus and Shire; by March 17, the firm, penniless, had closed its doors.
By April 23, in an action filed under seal, Mr. Spitzer's office had obtained an indictment from a Manhattan grand jury charging Mr. Khan with five counts of second-degree grand larceny arising from the attempted Dubai transfers, along with a warrant for his arrest. Less than a week later, Mary Jo White, the United States attorney in Manhattan, also obtained an indictment of the financier, accusing him of committing securities fraud in connection with the sale of $2.7 million of his brokerage firm's own preferred shares between April 1996 and June 1997.
And on May 3, the S.E.C. filed its civil complaint against Mr. Khan, Klein Maus and Shire, U.S. Financial Group and Mr. Kohli, accusing them of securities fraud in connection with efforts to raise money for U.S. Financial Group between July 1997 and January 1998.
But by the time all the various legal agencies were ready to arrest him, Mr. Khan had disappeared with his wife and two young sons, leaving Mr. Gross and Mr. Kohli, his wife's brother, to face the consequences of the firm's collapse.
A lawyer for the Gambinos is seeking a court order to allow the family to seize any profits that Mr. Gross realizes on the sale of his 2,500-square-foot home about six miles from the Clintons' new home in Chappaqua, N.Y. Neither the lawyer, Peter Raymond, nor the Gambinos would comment on the case.
Mr. Kohli is "vigorously defending" himself against the S.E.C. charges and "denies the allegations," said his lawyer, Richard Blumberg of New York.
As for Mr. Khan, he is facing trial if he is apprehended, and up to 15 years in prison if convicted.
To judge from the Gulf Times interview, however, those bleak prospects have not appreciably diminished the optimism and enthusiasm that were the foundation of his brief Wall Street career in America.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Gambinos are seeking Maurice Gross's share of the profits from the sale of his Chappaqua, N.Y., home. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 10); MISSING, AND WANTED: New York prosecuters say Mohammed Ali Khan, who lived in this luxurious waterfront complex in Jersey City, ran a Manhattan brokerage firm that stole millions from its customers-- including members of the Gambino organized crime family. Khan disappeared before the authorities could arrest him. (Jack Manning/The New York Times); Thomas F. Gambino: The imprisioned racketeer says Khan and his brokerge firm made more than $1 million in unauthorized penny-stock trades in the family accounts. Joseph Gambino: Like Thomas, a son of family founder Carlo Gambino. The brothers say they prefer conservative bond investments.
 
Graphs: "Other People's Money"
A lawsuit filed by members of the Gambino family contends that their broker at Klein Maus & Shire, a now-defunct firm, made unauthorized purchases of penny stocks for their accounts. (The Gambinos, the lawsuit says, favored quality bond investments.) The lawsuit contends that many of the stocks and warrants were later sold at undisclosed times, at losses. Listed are purchases for the joint account of Thomas F. and Frances Gambino, except where noted. Share prices plotted daily through Thursday.
 
AMERICAN CHAMPION
Holding company for America's Best Karate, which operates two karate studios, and American Champion Media, a maker of preschool and primary-school TV programs.
 
INTERCORP EXCELLE
Maker of salad dressing, sauces, marinades, dips and mayonnaise. Brands include Renee's Gourmet.
 
SWISHER INTERNATIONAL
Franchises hygiene products and services like maid services, home restorations and pest control.
 
PARADISE MUSIC AND ENTERTAINMENT
Music artist management; film, television, music video and commercial jingles production.
 
DECTRON INTERNATIONAL
Makes products for dehumidification, refrigeration, air-conditioning and air filtration.
 
USOL HOLDINGS
Formerly Firstlink Communications. Provides telecommunications and entertainment services to apartment and condominium complexes.
 
The graphs show the highs and lows of each company since 1997.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets (share prices)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); QATAR (91%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (88%); 

COMPANY: U.S. FINANCIAL GROUP US FINANCIAL 15 SPLIT CORP (56%); U S FINANCIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: U.S. FINANCIAL GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); QATAR (91%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); LITIGATION (87%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); ORGANIZED CRIME (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CRIME RATES (71%); MISAPPROPRIATION (71%); 

PERSON: KHAN, MOHAMMAD ALI ALI AKBAR KHAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



53 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Aiming for an Inclusive Bull Run

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
JESSE L. JACKSON JR., the 34-year-old congressman and son of the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, is not talking politics this morning, nor is he talking civil rights.
Instead, the topic is investing, and he is talking about 401(k) retirement plans and mutual funds, describing the benefits of dollar cost averaging and explaining how African-Americans are finally going to reach Wall Street, fulfilling what he and his father call a long journey from sharecropper to shareholder. 
 "I would like to spread the message of financial independence to African-Americans," the congressman says over a breakfast of eggs Benedict at the Swiss Hotel. "I want to market these concepts, these time-honored traditions of how to build wealth in America."
He is doing this in a new book he has written with his father, "It's About the Money" (Times Business, $23).
The book, published last month, is a how-to manual on investing and personal financial management aimed primarily at minority Americans, who the Jacksons say have largely missed out on one of the greatest bull markets in history.
Ask Representative Jackson why he and his father have ventured into a field populated by so many Wall Street wizards, and you'll get a funny look, a stare. The reply: Why not?
Representative Jackson has an undergraduate degree in business from North Carolina A & T and says he taught seminars in financial management when he worked at Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, his father's civil rights organization in Chicago. And the elder Mr. Jackson, who has made "economic justice" a pillar of his activism, is now heading up the Wall Street Project, a campaign to lobby big business and Wall Street financiers to share their wealth and expand minority business-people's access to capital.
Representative Jackson, a husky man who, like his father, was once a high school football star, calls the book the shared vision of father and son. The lessons are simple: the Jacksons discourage the use of credit cards, warn about investment scams and predatory lenders and encourage readers to make disciplined financial choices and to squirrel away money for retirement. Perhaps most emphatically, they recommend investing in the financial markets.
"We've attempted to do this in our own home," Representative Jackson said, "and this is our opportunity to show how others can become responsible with their own finances."
For too long, he said, his target audience has been wasting money on things like lottery tickets. His father likes to say that blacks have "more confidence in a bear lotto than a bull market." Representative Jackson says their book faces the dual challenge of trying to reach an audience that neither reads much nor trusts the stock market -- an audience that would rather spend than save.
"We're talking about breaking some century-old habits," he said.
The book provides few clues about the Jacksons' own experiences in the world of finance, beyond the elder Mr. Jackson's anecdotes about his mother struggling to make ends meet.
Instead, it reads like so many other personal finance guides. Written with the help of Mary Gotschall, a financial journalist, it includes a fair amount of reference material like telephone numbers for various agencies and anodyne tips like "always write out a check in ink" or "if anyone says you can receive a high return without risk, be suspicious."
(The authors are unlikely to get rich from the book; according to the congressman, his father and Ms. Gotschall split a $60,000 advance; Representative Jackson will draw the first $60,000 in royalties, with any remainder to be shared by the three writers.)
Representative Jackson's introduction to the world of investing came while he was in law school at the University of Illinois in 1991. He saw an infomercial for an investment seminar being led by Charles J. Givens, the author of "Wealth Without Risk." He bought the book and attended one of Mr. Givens's seminars. "I learned more about personal finance in an hour-and-a-half seminar than I had in three years in business school," he said.
He and his wife, Sandi, noticed, though, that they were the only blacks in an audience of about 800 people. Now he is trying to remedy that imbalance.
Representative Jackson wants low-wage workers to jump in, too. "There are some things that people who earn $30,000 can do to significantly change the quality of their lives," he said.
"But I want to offer one caveat," he added. "In no way am I suggesting that 'It's About the Money' is the answer to solving poverty in America. I believe the only way to solve poverty in America is to have a comprehensive full-employment program." He went on for a few more minutes before realizing that he was no longer talking the investing talk.
But he is walking the walk, he said. He is following his own advice, putting money away now, because his wife, a lawyer, is seven months pregnant. With his daughter due soon, he said it's important "to invest $50 or $100 a month for her to go to the college of her choice."
Before he entered Congress in 1995, he said, he was an "aggressive" investor. Now, a financial adviser handles all of his investments.
Still, he says he's always looking for a good investment. As he walks onto the sidewalk after breakfast, he greets a group of men who shout out things like "say hello to the Reverend for me." Then he puts his cellular telephone earplug in place and walks away, only to trot back.
"Wait," he calls out. "One more thing. Invest in antiques! That was something I learned from my mother."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. with his father, the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, in Washington in 1997. They have collaborated on a new book offering financial advice to minorities. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTH CAROLINA A & T UNIVERSTIY (82%); NORTH CAROLINA A & T UNIVERSTIY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH CAROLINA A & T UNIVERSTIY (82%); NORTH CAROLINA A & T UNIVERSTIY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (76%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (68%); LOTTERIES (60%); PREDATORY LENDING (60%); LOBBYING (58%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, JESSE JR (REPR) JESSE L JACKSON JR (96%); JESSE JACKSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



54 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: The World: It's the American Way;
Europe Stares at a Future Built by Immigrants

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
EUROPEANS, it often seems, spent the last decade building resentments of American fast food, pop culture, corporate callousness and military might -- when they were not importing or trying to emulate them. They ended the century thinking they had staked out the parameters of Americanization and could now concentrate on erecting barricades around their traditional larders, languages and societies. But some demographers have a big surprise in store.
Before the new millennium is a few decades old, these demographers say, Europe will be face to face with an American-style phenomenon more profoundly unsettling to many of them than any superficial cultural symbol or business intrusion. 
 The challenge, these experts say, is this: To survive economically and socially, Europe may have to lower its bars to immigration and change its racial and ethnic face through mass migration of labor from around the world. In other words, it may find itself debating moves toward a social structure that looks more like America's.
It has often been said that however much they share in democratic values, Europeans and Americans still differ on one fundamental: In America, the whole idea of citizenship is that anyone from anywhere can become naturalized. In Europe, on the other hand, the idea of citizenship in most places is still linked to ethnic heritage, or at least to language and culture. True, Americans have restricted immigration and Europeans have invited foreign workers to take jobs in their economies. But large-scale immigration and naturalization is still an American ideal, while Europeans cling to a linguistic and racial basis for citizenship.
In the coming decades, United Nations experts say, demographics indicate that many European countries (and Japan) will have more older people and fewer babies than ever before. This seems to foretell severely shrunken labor forces and swollen ranks of pensioners. If Europeans want to keep their economies and social services running, they will be tempted to look far afield for qualified workers of all kinds -- not just the semiskilled or unskilled workers who have traditionally been invited to fill gaps in their work forces.
Joseph Chamie, the director of the United Nations population division, says there is a logical response: what he calls replacement migration. "These countries in Europe will face the wall," he said. "They either bring in migrants, or they are going to decline in size. The model that the United States has -- and Canada and Australia -- is increasingly becoming attractive to some of the thinkers in those countries."
United Nations experts preparing a report to be published this year say that their early projections show that Italy would have to add about 9 million immigrants by 2025 -- about 300,000 a year -- to keep its population at 1995 levels, Germany would need to import 14 million people -- 500,000 a year -- France 2 million and the European Union as a whole about 35 million. If the Europeans wanted to keep their ratio of older people to active workers at the 1995 levels, the union would need 135 million immigrants by 2025.
Surplus labor, some of it very highly skilled, is waiting in the third world, and the pressure for migration out of overpopulated countries will be growing as the European societies shrink. A group of developing countries is calling for a United Nations conference that would have the freer movement of labor on its agenda. India, for example, has a labor force larger than that of the European Union. A lot of its computer geniuses are already sought by Silicon Valley. Will Europe soon have to compete for them? And will it let them migrate?
If migration is the answer, and the numbers are large enough, Europe may well find itself under a challenge to make these and other immigrants full citizens in every sense. Today, Germany tolerates Turkish "guest workers," as France allows Algerian migrants, but in both cases these minorities have become lightning rods for nationalist resentments.
As always when projections are made, there are dissenting voices. Michael Teitelbaum, program director of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in New York and the co-author with Jay Winter of "A Question of Numbers: High Migration, Low Fertility and the Politics of National Identity" (Hill and Wang, 1998) points out that some European countries are already quite culturally and racially diverse. That aside, he says, he does not believe that large-scale migration is unavoidable.
"I don't think there is anything inevitable about anything when it comes to demography, and I am a demographer," he said. And, he said, European nations may not see the American example as worth emulating.
"It depends on what your goals are," he said. "If your goals are to maximize your gross domestic product then you probably don't want a labor force that is slowly declining in numbers, even if their productivity is rising fast. If your goal is not G.D.P. but G.D.P. per capita or the equitable distribution of G.D.P. and a kind of equilibrium, a kind of agreeable quality of life in your society, then you may not care as much."
Mr. Teitelbaum is saying, in effect, that the challenge may be what Mr. Chamie predicts, but that Europeans may decide the cost of meeting it is too high. He points to European feelings about American-style capitalism.
"There are many Europeans who hear Americans say how triumphant the American economy is and how wonderful and prosperous it is and they look at it and say, 'Gee, we don't want to be like that,' " Mr. Teitelbaum said. " 'It's really two societies with the kind of underclass that's getting worse and worse off, more and more marginalized.' "
ALSO, he said, not everybody has the same definition of multiculturalism. "The French think that what they call the Anglo-Saxon model is a multicultural model of integration in which everybody speaks their own language and doesn't necessarily learn the common language -- and they don't really become British or Canadian or American. They simply live in those countries and the political system sort of stitches together compromises between these groups."
"The French image is quite different, but not xenophobic at all," he said, recalling the numbers of Poles, Russians and others who have settled over the century. Their model, he said, is "that anybody of any race, national origin or whatever can become French, but they've got to really become French -- French defined in French terms." Germany, with an ethnically based view of citizenship has had a different debate about immigration, he said.
Policies and programs to overcome hurdles like language barriers are scant in much of Europe because cultural homogeneity has been deeply valued, citizenship has often been defined ethnically or linguistically, and the naturalization process that has made Americans out of millions of foreigners does not exist. For example, while Britain may now be the most racially diverse and integrated nation in Europe, restrictions on immigrants from outside the European Union remain. Skinhead violence against non-Europeans has erupted from Scandinavia into Central and Eastern Europe. In Denmark, a right-wing nationalist leader proposed recently that all Muslims should be rounded up and put in camps.
"You have European governments that continue to deploy the most sophisticated forms of immigration control," said Arthur C. Helton, an international lawyer who is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Yet European societies thirst ever more for new blood and labor, which will come from outside of Europe."
How to manage that? Mr. Helton said the example of the United States is instructive. Immigration there "has not only inspired but enforced a set of ways to manage conflict that Europeans are going to have to either borrow or invent," he said. "There is a profound recognition by most Americans that this is a country more about change than about status. Europeans had better get ready for change."
IN Europe, protection of minorities is often seen as enough. "But people don't want to be beneficiaries of minority rights arrangements," Mr. Helton said. "So there is a dilemma. Immigrants want to preserve their language and culture but do not wish to be stigmatized as second-class citizens. That's a delicate balance that often is missed, and it leads to intolerance, discrimination, backlash, race riots and the lot."
Mr. Teitelbaum says that this is where political leadership comes in, and that is as difficult to predict as anything else. With the combination of low fertility and high immigration, he said, "you can have everything from prosperous peace and comity to disastrous, disintegrative civil war."
"A lot," he said, "depends on the actions of political leaderships, to either exploit fears or to try to deal with them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Europe may need to change as populations age along with these Italian bocci players. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Illegal immigrants in Milan line up for a limited number of permits to stay and work. (Reuters)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (50%); 

COMPANY: FRANCE 2 SA (50%); UNITED NATIONS (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); MILAN, ITALY (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMMIGRATION (92%); ETHNICITY (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LABOR FORCE (86%); NATURALIZATION (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); CITIZENSHIP (74%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); MILLENNIUM (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



55 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Once And Again

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Beginnings are always difficult: even the most tough-minded writer finds it hard to avoid portentousness. And since this is a quadruple beginning (new year, new century, new millennium, and, for me, new column), I won't even try. What follows are some broad opening-night thoughts about the world economy.
I deliberately say world economy, not American economy. Whatever else they may have been, the 90's were the decade of globalization. Both the bad news (it was a banner decade for financial crises) and the good (living standards in much of the world continued to rise, in some cases -- China -- spectacularly) were closely tied to the ever-increasing integration of national economies with each other, to the seemingly unstoppable logic of growing trade and investment. 
 Or is it unstoppable? You see, we've been here before.
Historians sometimes call it the First Global Economy: the era from the mid-19th century onward in which new technologies of transportation and communication made large-scale international trade and investment possible for the first time. In their quest to create that global economy, to abolish the traditional constraints of geography, engineers accomplished miracles -- laying telegraph cables beneath the Atlantic, digging tunnels through the Alps and building paths between the seas. The Panama Canal, whose construction required breakthroughs not only in earth-moving technology but in medical science, was the high-water mark of the age (literally: the locks raise ships 85 feet above sea level).
And just as the canal reached completion, the global economy fell apart.
To some extent, the First Global Economy was a casualty of war. The Panama Canal and the Western Front both went into action in August 1914. The war and its indirect consequences -- hyperinflation and political instability in Germany, isolationism in the United States, and so on -- partly explain why the forces of globalization went into a retreat that by 1945 left the world economy thoroughly Balkanized. But the truth is that even before 1914, though the volume of trade and investment continued to expand, the globalist idea was on the defensive. Intelligent men might explain that wars were no longer worth fighting and borders obsolete; a sophisticated, cosmopolitan elite -- like the U.S.-educated technocrats who ran Mexico until they were overthrown in 1911 -- might move freely between continents; but the political foundations for a global economy were never properly laid, and at the first serious shock the structure collapsed.
We are now living in the era of the Second Global Economy -- a world economy reconstructed, largely under American leadership, over the past half century. It took a long time to put Humpty Dumpty back together again: the share of world output entering into trade didn't reach its pre-1914 levels until the 1970's, and large-scale investment in "emerging markets" -- that is, places that are to today's world economy what America was to our great-grandfathers' -- has revived only in the last decade. But this time the economic achievement is built on stronger foundations -- isn't it?
Well, yes -- but maybe not strong enough. True, we have gotten better at making the distinction between commerce and conquest -- trade no longer follows the flag and blatant imperialism is out of style. (We handed the Panama Canal back last month.) And Western nations seem to have more or less grown out of the saber-rattling nationalism that led to catastrophe back in 1914. But now as then the global idea is very much a minority persuasion, all too easily portrayed as an ideology of and for a rootless cosmopolitan elite that is out of touch with ordinary people.
For that, surely, is the lesson of the trashing of the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle last November. Not that the protesters were right: it is a sad irony that the cause that has finally awakened the long-dormant American left is that of -- yes! -- denying opportunity to third-world workers. But though the facts may be on the side of the free traders, though global trade really ought to have mass public support, one can hardly deny that the opponents are winning the propaganda war. For the moment, as long as it seems to deliver the goods and services, globalization is tolerated; but it is not loved.
The big economic question for the next century, in other words, is really political: can the Second Global Economy build a constituency that reaches beyond the sort of people who congregate at Davos? If not, it will eventually go the way of the first. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALPS (69%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN FRONT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN FRONT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); GERMANY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALPS (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (87%); MILLENNIUM (77%); HISTORY (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); MOUNTAINS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



56 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin Goes, Uncertainty Remains

BYLINE: By Richard Pipes; Richard Pipes, a research professor at Harvard, is the author of "Property and Freedom."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Boris Yeltsin's unexpected resignation was a brilliant political ploy, and one with worrisome implications for the West.
The move was clever because it enhanced the presidential prospects of Mr. Yeltsin's chosen successor, Vladimir Putin; it will improve the chances of Mr. Yeltsin's being remembered as a patriot rather than a leader who put ambition ahead of the nation's interests; and it allowed Mr. Putin to give Mr. Yeltsin immunity against corruption charges. 
 It also went over well internationally. Once they got over the shock, President Clinton and other Western leaders welcomed the decision as insurance of a smooth transition of power and the continuation of reforms.
In some respects, optimism is warranted. In last month's parliamentary elections the two parties sponsored by Mr. Putin gained a greater share of the vote than did the Communists, promising the kind of cooperation between the executive and the Duma that heretofore has eluded the Kremlin. And Mr. Putin quickly pledged close cooperation with the West.
Yet closer scrutiny of how he came to power and of what he tells his domestic political audience reveals cause for anxiety.
The main pro-Putin faction, the Unity Party, gained nearly one-quarter of the vote in the parliamentary elections, yet it presented no platform. Its appeal consisted entirely of support for the Chechen war, which Mr. Putin says is necessary to save Russia's "honor." He dismissed out of hand foreign protests of the war, calling it an internal Russian matter. In other words, the party's program consisted mostly of appeals to chauvinism and anti-Westernism.
Moreover, in a statement on a government Internet site in December, Mr. Putin declared that Western-style democracy was not suited to Russia. Russian society, he explained, "wants a restoration of a guiding and regulatory role of the state." Russians are "not ready to abandon traditional dependence on the state and become self-reliant individuals," he noted, and thus the country needs "a comprehensive system of state regulation of the economy." These sentiments hardly point to further political and economic liberalization.
Indeed, in a speech two months ago, Mr. Putin said that to improve the economy Russia needed to beef up its defense industries -- a bizarre statement given that the Soviet economy was ruined by runaway military expenditures. He pledged to increase military spending by 57 percent, "to respond to new geopolitical realities, both external and internal threats."
Even more worrisome was the paean to Russia's secret services he delivered on the anniversary of Lenin's creation of the Cheka, the first Soviet secret police. "Several years ago," he said on this occasion, "we fell prey to an illusion that we have no enemies. We paid dearly for this. . . . The organs of state security have always guarded Russia's national interests." This praise was lavished on the Cheka, the O.G.P.U., the N.K.V.D. and the K.G.B., indispensable instruments of Communist terror that deprived millions of Soviet citizens of their lives and liberties, and kept the rest in constant fear.
Yes, Mr. Putin is certainly an anti-Communist, but Soviet-style Communism no longer poses a real threat to Russia -- only a fraction of those who vote for the Communist Party want a return to the past. The danger is authoritarianism fused with nationalism and imperialism: a government that respects some basic economic and civil freedoms, because they enjoy popular support, but represses political expression and exploits anti-Western sentiments to isolate Russia from the world.
It is possible, of course, that should Mr. Putin win the presidency he will prove a pragmatic politician and steer a reasonable course. But his political rhetoric makes clear that we can't take anything for granted. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



57 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: That Elusive Surplus

 BODY:
For two decades, American politics were defined by what David Stockman, the Reagan-era budget director, memorably proclaimed to be deficits as far as the eye could see. With the arrival of this new year, the United States economy will shortly break the record set in the 1960's and achieve the longest boom in history. As a result, political candidates are now debating how to spend surpluses rather than how to reduce deficits. But the new game can be as tricky as the old one. The true size of any surplus is debatable. Even its existence is provisional, depending on yet unrealized spending cuts. So far the presidential candidates are more interested in talking about what a surplus might buy than in the painful choices that lie ahead.
All four major presidential candidates agree that $2 trillion of a projected $3 trillion in budget surpluses should be used to pay down the national debt or otherwise set aside for Social Security. All of them also have ambitious schemes for the remaining $1 trillion. 
 Vice President Al Gore would use the money for health care, education, military spending and other initiatives. Former Senator Bill Bradley would focus most of it on health. Gov. George W. Bush would use most of the money for a tax cut and military spending, and Senator John McCain would spread it out for spending and tax cuts.
But none of the candidates emphasize what Congress will have to do to make these dollars materialize. These figures assume that Congress and the president will agree to steep budget cuts in domestic and military programs as envisioned in the Budget Act of 1997, with its notoriously tight caps on expenditures. In fact, the caps from that law have been circumvented in each of the last two years.
If current spending levels are not cut this year and are instead allowed to rise at the rate of inflation, the 10-year surplus shrinks to $250 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office. If Congress sets aside as much for "emergency" spending as it has in the last two years, the projected 10-year surplus would shrink to less than $50 billion. These numbers could improve later this month, when new economic forecasts are due, but the hard reality remains. Producing trillion-dollar surpluses will require cuts in existing domestic programs.
It is true that discretionary domestic spending has been shrinking. In theory, there ought to be room for the next president to advocate some increased spending for anti-poverty programs, schools, environmental improvement, law enforcement and other areas, without provoking a political firestorm. But the costs of federal retirement programs and health care are exploding. The Congressional Budget Office projects that Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, now 45 percent of the federal budget, will grow to 65 percent by 2030.
With the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primary only a few weeks away, voters must start demanding that all the presidential candidates face up to these realities when they talk about using the surplus for either tax reductions or new health plans. But voters may turn out to be less interested in these subjects than in the question of who can keep the economy cooking.
One lesson from the Clinton years is that an expanding economy can do more than any social program or tax cut to improve the lives of Americans. An enduring lesson of the Reagan years, of course, is that it really does take smoke and mirrors to produce tax cuts, spending initiatives and a balanced budget at the same time. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); MEDICARE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MEDICAID (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



58 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Postcards: This Time From a New Century

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
NORMALLY, this is a good time to look back at postcards from the past year, but it seems only appropriate to present postcards from the future.
SEATTLE, 2000 -- Ken Griffey Jr., unable to get home to his golf enclave in Florida, lives in clubhouse at Safeco Field. 
 COLORADO SPRINGS, 2000 -- United States Olympic Committee search comes up with a new president, long known for his fund-raising, Juan Antonio Samaranch.
REDMOND, WASH., 2000 -- Bill Gates admits he has been doubling as an invented character named Bud Selig -- "as a youthful prank."
NEW YORK, 2001 -- New Mayor Mark Green tells George Steinbrenner, "Sorry, but Senator Giuliani didn't sign any agreements about a new Yankee Stadium, and we'd prefer schools to ballparks."
ORLANDO, FLA., 2001 -- Bud Selig moves Brewers from Milwaukee to Orlando, and signs Ken Griffey Jr.
SEATTLE, 2001 -- Amazon.com goes bust after billion-dollar losses. World economy fallout: Pittsburgh Pirates, Ottawa Senators, Los Angeles Clippers and Al Davis's Cucamonga Raiders all default.
FLUSHING, 2001 -- With no city or corporate support forthcoming, Fred Wilpon goes ahead and builds new stadium with his own funds, naming it after his father. Good karma leads Mets to world championship in Nathan Wilpon Stadium.
PALO ALTO, CALIF., 2002 -- After winning all the majors in one year, Tiger Woods retires from golf ("Too easy") and returns to Stanford to study medicine and kick extra points.
BARCELONA, SPAIN, 2002 -- Juan Antonio Samaranch moves U.S.O.C. base to his villa.
BRONX, 2004 -- Donald Trump, now age 52, builds a new Yankee Stadium for Steinbrenner on pontoons in the Harlem River.
FLUSHING MEADOWS, 2004 -- Venus Williams and Serena Williams retire from tennis simultaneously while tied, 6-6, in a third-set tie breaker at United States Open final. They join Magic Johnson in building soup kitchens for the poor.
SCRANTON, PA., 2004 -- As part of the downsizing of the National Football League, Giants become the Scranton Miners.
PASADENA, CALIF., 2005 -- After consulting football "dietitian," Tiger Woods bulks up to a 260-pound linebacker and helps Stanford win national championship.
PORTLAND, ORE., 2005 -- Women's Soccer League finishes banner season of sold-out games with Portland defeating Carolina, 3-2, on goals by Brazilian, Nigerian and Michelle (Granny) Akers.
HOT SPRINGS, ARK., 2005 -- Because of shrinking attendance, Triple Crown of racing is consolidated in one track under Arkansas Gaming Commissioner W. J. Clinton.
CAMPO SERGIO GARCIA, SPAIN, 2005 -- After Tiger Woods moves, Orlando golf enclave is passe. Ken Griffey Jr. moves to new hot spot, demands trade closer to home.
BARCELONA, SPAIN, 2006 -- Juan Antonio Samaranch buys Cincinnati Reds and moves them to his town. Ken Griffey, Jr. joins his father, manager of the Reds.
HAVANA, 2006 -- Donald Trump, now age 50, purchases Cuba from Fidel Castro, declares blockade over. Trump caught bribing Olympic delegates $1 million each. Olympic Games disbanded.
WOODSTOCK, N.Y., 2007 -- First player to jump from junior high school joins Phil Jackson's expansion team, Catskill Hermits. As part of traditional gift-giving, Guru Jackson gives player remedial reader.
ST. LOUIS, 2008 -- Mark McGwire retires as manager of Cardinals because of obtrusive second head growing from shoulders. Says he went back on andro in 2000 but nobody asked.
WASHINGTON, 2009 -- Newly inaugurated President Jesse Jackson demands to play a series for the Washington football team, now given the politically correct name Rainbow Coalition. The former quarterback says, "My plays are better than Nixon's."
ATLANTIC CITY, 2009 -- Under cover of night, George Steinbrenner floats Yankee Stadium out of New York harbor to this gambling den. Baseball Commissioner Gates-Selig approves, saying he has always believed in free enterprise.
INDIANAPOLIS, 2010 -- With all talented players going directly to the National Basketball Association in midteens, only students play college hoops anymore. Swarthmore defeats Pomona for national title in sold-out dome.
MONDO CONDO, FLA., 2012 -- Because of dollar drain, last Canadian hockey team, Maple Leafs, moves here. Canadian snowbirds buy all 20,000 season tickets.
SEATTLE, 2013 -- Trey Griffey refuses to be drafted by Mariners, saying the former manager Lou Piniella used to yell at him in Mariners' clubhouse.
SAN FRANCISCO, 2014 -- Surgeon Tiger Woods performs world's first arm transplant on a Giants pitcher. Elmo (Bionic Man) Rittenhouse wins 21 games.
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA, 2015 -- Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova begin Old Lady Reunion Tour before gigantic crowd.
TOKYO, 2016 -- In first Super Bowl held outside United States, Lake Ronkonkoma Jets defeat Yakima Seahawks, 84-77.
NEWARK, 2018 -- First woman in N.B.A. history scores 7 points for Nets. (Don't worry, still in last place.) Charlie Ward comes north to picket this sacrilegious event.
HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM, 2022 -- Pele Agassi, son of Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf, is American captain in expanded World Cup of soccer, but Yanks lose three straight. (American cheer: "We're No. 48!")
LAS VEGAS, 2024 -- Rupert-Dolan-Turner megastation revives former Olympic Games. In new X Games segment, snowboarders race down the face of Hefner Marriott.
ATLANTIC CITY, 2024 -- Donald Trump, now age 49, buys Yankees from Steinbrenner family. Hires Ken Griffey Jr. as manager.
ATLANTIC CITY, 2025 -- Trey Griffey refuses to play with Yankees. Says Trump once yelled at him from stands.
MONTEREY, MEXICO, 2026 -- Surgeon Tiger Woods transplants Mark McGwire's extra head on a baseball player. Given a new life, Antonio (Andro) Gonzalez leads majors in home runs with 87.
NEW YORK, 2033 -- Federal Communications Commissioner Wyatt Imus dictates that Americans must listen to three hours a day of fans proposing trades.
WAYCROSS, GA., 2036 -- Porker Pembroke of Waycross Falcons becomes first National Football League lineman to weigh 600 pounds.
BOSTON, 2038 -- First eight-hour baseball game in nine innings. American League owners debate ending designated hitter rule.
COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO, 2040 -- John Rocker comes out of seclusion and runs for president on Militiamen ticket.
WASHINGTON, 2040 -- President Tiger Woods reminds people that everybody has right to free speech, even addled jocks.
CHARLOTTE, N.C., 2044 -- Nascar sets world record for attendance for sports event with 1,750,000 fans at King Richard Petty 500 -- including the half a million year-round residents of Luxury Box Towers between the second and third turns.
CHICAGO, 2045 -- Cubs win first pennant in exactly 100 years. When entire World Series is scheduled for corporate weasels at warm-weather site at Colangelo Stadium in Arizona, Cubs fans riot, making Mrs. O'Leary's fire look like a weenie roast.
ATLANTIC CITY, 2046 -- Donald Trump, now age 47, signs Quattro Griffey to play for Yankees.
SAN PEDRO DE MACORIS, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, 2052 -- Using shortstops at every position, home team captures World Series of Baseball, beating Pyongyang, North Korea, in seventh game.
TRUMPOPOLIS, N.J., 2060 -- In new state capital modeled after Brasilia (but with statehouse resembling a slot machine), Summer Games begin at Trump Olympic Stadium. Donald Trump, now age 44, personally carries torch to top of Trump Olympic Tower.
PRAGUE, 2070 -- Laboratory clones entire Czech hockey team based on DNA of Jaromir Jagr. They win gold medal.
TRUMPOPOLIS, N.J., 2080 -- Donald Trump, now age 42, wanting a World Cup skier in the family, produces daughter from DNA of Martina Navratilova. Experiment goes awry when offspring has Martina's intellect but Donald's athletic ability, and she becomes Nobel Prize-winning nuclear physicist-poet.
GROZNY, CHECHNYA, 2098 -- In expanded soccer World Cup, American men finish dead last. (Yank cheer: "We're No. 64!")
CINCINNATI, 2099 -- Retired slugger Sixto Griffey buys the Reds and moves them back home, saying: "Let's have a nice normal century one of these days. Everybody should just chill out."
At this fin-de-siecle time (please pardon the fascination with the phrase), I agree with Sixto Griffey. If we start right away, we could even get a jump on it. Happy new century.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Fred Harper)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (90%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (68%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (56%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); OTTAWA SENATORS (55%); NEW YORK METS (55%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (55%); OTTAWA SENATORS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); OTTAWA SENATORS (55%); NEW YORK METS (55%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (55%); OTTAWA SENATORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BASEBALL (88%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); OLYMPICS (76%); TENNIS (76%); SPORTS (76%); BASKETBALL (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); MAYORS (71%); SOCCER (70%); GAMING (50%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); 

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (77%); DONALD TRUMP (57%); VENUS WILLIAMS (50%); SERENA WILLIAMS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



59 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: The Power of Electronic Commerce

 BODY:
At first glance, sales over the Internet do not look impressive, accounting for between 0.3 and 3 percent of retail sales. But a survey released last week by the Boston Consulting Group and Shop.org, the trade association of online retailers, shows that e-commerce during the holiday season has quadrupled since last year, the first Christmas season for which Internet sales were important. E-commerce looks poised to transform entire sectors of the economy.
Internet sales have soared in apparel, books, music, specialty foods, electronics, financial services and travel. The rapid growth has created headaches. It turns out that designing a spiffy Web site for customers to click and order from is a lot easier than coordinating the mundane tasks of stocking popular items, pulling them off the shelves and shipping them on time to meet customer demands. 
 Despite its small size, electronic commerce is already reshaping markets. Take term life insurance. Although few sales are completed over the Internet, premiums plummeted over the past two years, says Prof. Austan Goolsbee of the University of Chicago, as customers searched the Web for the best prices. Comparison shopping is one of the key ways in which the Internet is shifting market power from producers and distributors to ordinary consumers. Customers are also finding novel uses of the Web. Many are selling unwanted holiday gifts on eBay, the large online auctioneer.
Mr. Goolsbee makes a more subtle point about the impact of e-commerce. Brokers -- by which he means people in any industry who gather small pieces of information and sell services to consumers -- are vulnerable. Travel agents, stockbrokers, insurance agents and even car dealers fit this category. The Internet can replace brokers because it provides a fast, low-cost substitute way to sort information.
The Internet could also do for retailing and information services what the cable industry has done for television -- provide niche services. The bricks-and-mortar way of doing business imposes huge distribution costs that make it unprofitable for sellers to cater to small groups. By directly connecting consumers and producers, the Internet drastically cuts distribution costs and makes it potentially profitable to sell specialty music recordings and other such items, especially to higher-income families.
It is possible that Internet sales will turn out to be a fad. But markets powerfully drive businesses toward low-cost, convenient practices. There will be problems along the way, but the Internet will likely change the way America does business far beyond the habits of holiday shoppers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RETAIL SALES (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); TERM LIFE INSURANCE (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); FAMILY (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); MUSIC (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



60 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: The Pressure onUnions

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In a broad critique of American's unions ("A New Idea for Unions: Forget the Past," On the Contrary, Dec. 5) Daniel Akst was right when he said that labor unions, to be truly progressive and relevant, have to expand the repertoire of services they offer to prospective members and find ways to adjust to the emerging new work force and globalization. 
 But he was wrong to suggest that workers have lost interest in unions. Though only one in seven workers is a union member, surveys have shown that roughly one-third of all nonunion workers want to be represented by unions in dealing with employers.
The problem is that they are not often given that choice. Most unions have been reluctant to use their resources to organize new members (and still are, despite their leaders' rhetoric). The typical employer fights union organizing campaigns with tactics like legal delays and intimidation of union supporters. And labor laws make organizing difficult, time-consuming and expensive because they require elections, not membership cards, to prove union support.
 
GARY N. CHAISON
Worcester, Mass., Dec. 5
 
The writer is a professor of industrial relations at Clark University.
 Money & Business welcomes letters from readers. Letters must include the writer's name, address and telephone number and may be sent to Letters, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to sunbiz@nytimes.com. Letters selected for publication may be abridged.
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LETTERS MONEY&BUSINESS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



61 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
It's the Fans vs. the Athletes In an Interactive World

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE

 BODY:
With the same prophetic wisdom that predicted Jim Thorpe's Olympic triumphs in 1912, Cassius Clay's victory over Sonny Liston in 1964, and the Stanley Cup landing in Texas -- Texas! -- in 1999, Times sportswriters look into the future from their press boxes.
 It was not until after the Players' Riot of 2019, in which hundreds of fans were injured and two died, that America began to take seriously the possibility that sports was no national campfire but rather a dangerously out-of-control brush fire that could consume the entire country. The President's hastily assembled Rocker Commission summed up the situation in this plaintive statement: "Twenty years ago, a grown man in a New York Rangers jersey would be an object of mild amusement. Ten years ago, he would be questioned by mental health authorities. Today, he would be detained by the police as a potential terrorist. How has this happened?" 
 How indeed has the relationship between athlete and fan become one of such mutual rage that the Plexiglas walls of hockey arenas have been extended to completely enclose the rinks. Basketball games are once again played inside metal cages. Because the armed guards at major baseball and football games were mostly retired players, they refused to open fire when the athletes finally stormed the stands. They watched the carnage with detachment, if not some delight.
Why did love turn into hate?
The commission's anthology of learned answers was predictable and unsatisfying: social, economic and physical disparities, it maintained, had created such a psychological gulf that "player regarded fan as 'the other' and fan objectified the player as a cartoon figure, thus removing any common ground of humanity and empathy."
As the commission chairman, Prof. John Rocker, a distinguished historian and psycho-analyst, pointed out: "From my own experience as a young player, I can understand how ignorance and fear, inflamed by media stereotypes, can lead to the breakdown of society. Frankly, it was just a matter of time. Look at history."
That the Players' Riot (the Players' Association preferred to call it the Players' Defense) occurred 100 years after the 20th century's sports nadir -- the 1919 Black Sox scandal -- and 50 years after its zenith -- the year in which the Jets and the Mets won championships and the Knicks began their great title run -- was proof to some that it was merely the dip of a cycle. In time, sports would swing back into the national affection.
But the commission, calling the Riot a watershed event from which sports might never fully recover, cited a series of smaller events that had led up to it:
*By the turn of the century, the amoral, outrageous, thrill-driven sensibility of professional wrestling had pushed other sports to turn up their heat. Purists were most concerned about Major League Baseball's secret quota of one bench-clearing fight per team per month, with pacifists fined.
*Extreme sports, a short-lived pastime for increasingly short-lived people, was eventually banned; the ABC show "Snuff Sport," in which it was alleged that ambulance crews were purposely given misdirections, is still defending lawsuits. But harpoon fights between teams in war canoes and dogfights between World War I fighter plane replicas created a climate in which recreational athletes became ashamed to play noncontact sports like golf, tennis and softball. Thus, spectatorship rose dramatically.
*Those who continued to want to compete in some way turned to Virtual Games (known also as Zelig Games) in which hologram representations were inserted into classic and later live events. Eventually, a generation raised with advanced video skills was able to win in mock contests with real athletes, often by cheating.
*As traditional male sports continued to be devalued, women's sports ascended. Women's tennis, soccer and volleyball eclipsed the men's games, while it became necessary in men's minor-league baseball, football and basketball to require a certain number of female athletes per team to assure attendance. There was great controversy over the possibility of such requirements in the major leagues.
*Cablevision's computerized "call-the-shot meters," enabling fans to vote on such coaching decisions as run-pass or substitutions in specified games, was a sensation for several seasons, especially after bad decisions were purposely sent in by gamblers. But then Fox Interactive introduced betting on individual plays, and fans voted with their wallets.
*With ballparks and arenas no more than stage sets (ESPN's attempt to use digitized crowds was blocked by the actors' guilds), the so-called moderate, or cultural, fans, once seen occasionally at major events, disappeared. There were only the corporate fans in the luxury sky boxes and the hard-core fans in the hard seats.
It was the mounting tension between the hard-cores and the players while the sky boxers egged them all on, according to the Rocker Commission, that set the scene for the Riot.
The game in which it occured, between the Gainesville Dells and the South Bend Compaqs of the Microsoft League, was the renewal of a traditionally violent rivalry. The two cities were still reeling over the demise of Division I college football, set in motion by a minor scandal at Notre Dame in 1999.
The National Football League had easily established minor league teams, administered by former college athletic departments, but they were seen as mercenary gangs who didn't even pretend to read or write.
Microsoft Leaguers, a volatile mix of high school stars and N.F.L. has-beens, played a particularly brutal game while their fans frequently fought in the stands. They were urged on by skyboxers who floated flaming dollar bills down among the hoi polloi.
On this Thursday night, despite dogs, sky-cams, metal detectors and random frisks, a fan smuggled a folding plastic cross-bow into the stadium. Late in a close game, an arrow hit a 400-pound lineman in the buttock. When he eventually noticed, he became enraged and led both teams over the moat, past the guards, through the electrified fence and into the stands. Apparently assuming that it would become another Dells versus Compaqs free-for-all, fans stood up to meet them.
But this time, the players were loyal to each other, not to uniforms. It was athletes versus fans, and with few exceptions, it was no contest. The massacre ended because the players, exhausted from the game, ran out of steam and allowed those fans still standing to run away.
The guards regrouped and raced up to protect the sky-box level, which was spared. This is probably why few athletes were charged with felonies.
Six months later, Professor Rocker had tears in his eyes when he announced the findings of his commission.
"We have become two Americas, jock and fan," he said. "Two peoples who need each other desperately have somehow been divided. I would fear for the future of the nation, if I didn't see a positive in all this.
"Both groups, jock and fan, are remarkably similar, filled with immigrants who don't speak good English, gays, ex-cons, and even some 20-year-old single moms. Remembering my own misguided, yet somehow prophetic, remarks of the last century, I am filled with hope that we finally have something here to build on."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. 1)
 
Drawing (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: PLAYERS' ASSOCIATION (75%); NEW YORK RANGERS (56%); NEW YORK RANGERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (56%); NEW YORK RANGERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); BASKETBALL (76%); TERRORISM (71%); WRESTLING (71%); BASEBALL (71%); FIRES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); HISTORY (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%); 

PERSON: MUHAMMAD ALI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



62 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR 2000: STAYING BEHIND;
What Millennium? Let Others Make Merry, Havana Will Wait a Year

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

DATELINE: HAVANA, Jan. 1

 BODY:
Cuba did not celebrate the start of the third millennium today.
This is not a political statement, even if the Communist Party's refusal to fade away after the collapse of the Soviet Union or the continuing United States trade embargo make Cuba feel like a time capsule crammed with dowager buildings and revolutionary slogans. It is only an acknowledgement -- made on the front page of Granma, the official newspaper -- that since the Christian calendar began with the Year One, the new millennium actually starts on Jan. 1 next year. 
 So while the rest of the world jumps the gun on the party, Cuba, Communist or otherwise, ever insistent on following its own political and social path, will linger in the 20th century for one more year.
Contrary to rumors, neither Madonna nor the Three Tenors showed up in Havana on Friday night. There were no fireworks or huge crowds cheering on the stroke of 12, a result of both tradition and politics. Cubans traditionally spend New Year's Eve at home with friends and family, waiting until midnight to toss buckets of water out the window in a ritual that symbolizes saying goodbye to the past year's bad luck and hard times.
And ever since Jan. 1, 1959, when the dictator Fulgencio Batista fled Havana, the New Year is more important for commemorating the day when cheering throngs embraced Fidel Castro and his triumphant revolutionaries.
While Cuba officially remains on the verge of the millennium, its people have grown accustomed to the feeling of being on the cusp of a new era. They have learned to improvise and survive in an economy that, despite modest growth, has yet to lift their family situations. So it was that an elderly artist chuckled as he reflected on whether the year 2000 held any special meaning for him.
"Here, every day is the turn of the century," he said. "The problem is tomorrow. Our preoccupation is tomorrow. What problems are we going to have tomorrow?"
Recent weeks have brought contrasting flashes of yesterday and tomorrow. In numbers not seen since the early days of the revolution, tens of thousands of people have marched in boisterous rallies demanding the return of Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old refugee who is at the center of a custody dispute between relatives in Miami and his father in Cuba. In the millennium's last cold war battle, some 100,000 protesters in the city of Santiago revived visions of the old revolutionary fervor on Thursday with their broadsides against American imperialism.
"Cuba is in a time warp," said a diplomat. "In the 21st century Cuba is not going to have Fidel. He is not going to be around forever. There is going to be a change and we would like to see it occur in a way that assures democracy and progress."
But reminiscent of the days before it started importing revolution, Cuba is eagerly importing tourists who sip daiquiris in new hotels or trot out their best high school Spanish as they bargain down the price of bongos or portraits of Che Guevara.
Three hundred Italian and Canadian tourists ushered in the New Year under the dome of the stately Capitol building, which is used as a museum and convention center, feasting on Champagne and lobster.
In Old Havana, several hundred tourists paid $100 each to dine under the stars in the plaza outside the cathedral, ringed by twinkling wreaths hanging from the balconies. As tourists, some in black tie and slinky gowns, roamed about, ordinary Cubans without the cash to join the bash looked on curiously from the roped-off entrances to the plaza.
"What can I believe?" said Yordanka Hernandez, who lives in a cul-de-sac off the plaza. "They should do this for us, the Cubans. Instead, this is for foreigners. As a Cuban, imagine what I think. We earned it. We're struggling. Struggling for Elian."
In a building overlooking the plaza, small groups gathered in tiny apartments, clinking glasses of rum or dancing to music from boom boxes as they waited to eat their dinner of pork, rice and yuca.
"We celebrate with what we have," said Roberto Leyva. "Let everybody have their own way. Cubans live among brothers. He does not live thinking about the people out there."
He expected that the New Year observance would bring with it some official declaration about the revolution's challenges after 41 years.
"The comandante will have to talk about the revolution in the millennium," he said. "For me, this is the best. Here, there are no assaults, you can walk anywhere. Fidel has created this. If God exists, that God is Fidel."
Tourists flowed through the streets, as they do most days, taking pictures. Although street vendors grouse that the tourists often pass by looking but not buying, they are a source of much-needed hard currency. They also bring a curiosity about an island that is suffused with near-mythic meaning.
"I am a disillusioned old-time Communist," said Allesandro Damiani, an Italian tourist who works for the European Community. "I wanted to find out if ideology is stronger than climate and latitude, or the other way around. I found latitude and climate are stronger."
Mr. Damiani said Cuba's opening up to tourism was inevitable since the collapse of the Soviet Union, which helped subsidize the government here.
But he also thought it was jarring to see class distinctions he thought had vanished with the revolution slowly arise between Cubans who work in tourism and have access to American dollars and Cubans who do not and are paid in Cuban pesos.
One of those Cubans who has a few more dollars is Manuel Licea, a singer who first rose to fame in the 1950's with the island's top orchestras. Though he is fond of his smokes and rum-tinged espresso, he is still in fine voice, and has become famous again through his appearances on the wildly popular "Buena Vista Social Club" and "Afro-Cuban All Stars" recordings. Since then, he has traveled to Europe and the United States, playing the traditional Cuban music known as son for people who remembered it from decades past.
"The century began with the son," he said. "It will end with the son."
In the 1950's he used to greet the New Year in clubs, serenading tourists with irresistible guarachas that sent their hearts racing or dreamy boleros that brought tears. The songs, like one titled "If You Cook the Way You Walk, I'll Eat the Scraps," also helped ordinary folks suffering under the dictatorship forget their worries.
This New Year, though he was performing in Mexico, his thoughts were with easing the animosity between Cubans who have long been divided since the revolution split families and friends.
"I hope for something miraculous in the millennium," he said during a rehearsal break at the Egrem Studios in Havana a few days ago. "I hope the Cubans who are in other countries will reach an understanding between those who are here and those who are outside. Music, like sport, is something we can do to help that understanding. That is my dream. Before I have to go to where we all have to go, to at least see that for 24 hours. Then I can die."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although the government chose not to celebrate the millennium officially on Friday, Cuban dancers entertained hundreds of tourists in Old Havana. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILLENNIUM (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COLD WAR (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (57%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



63 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: At-Home Fathers Step Out To Find They Are Not Alone

BYLINE: By RICK MARIN

DATELINE: DES PLAINES, Ill.

 BODY:
In a gray lecture hall in the Oakton Community College, a group of middle-aged men were shouting affirmations.
"Who ARE you?" their cheerleader, Hogan Hilling, demanded. 
 "Proud dads!" they replied.
"What time is it?"
"It's DAD time!"
To further raise the room's esteem, Mr. Hilling instructed the men to raise one hand in the air, then bring it down into a clenched fist with a rousing "Yes!"
The "Yes!" fist pump was the support-group chant of choice at the recent At-Home Dads Convention in this Chicago suburb. A day of seminars on topics like "At-Home Daddying . . . What Are Our Issues?" and "The Anatomy of a Working Mom's Brain" drew about 85 men from 20 states. Many of the attendees, a small group with a broad constituency, run Web sites, newsletters and play groups that cater to men whose wives bring home the reduced-fat bacon.
No longer the butt of demeaning "Mr. Mom" jokes, these men have become familiar figures at playgrounds and P.T.A. meetings. They have "come out of the pantry," some of them like to say, with a newly emboldened attitude. Their nascent men's movement comes with a new idea of masculinity: Ironing John. But they still have issues.
Dozens of virtual sweatlodges or kaffeeklatsches have sprung up for the men who by choice or economic necessity find themselves on the daddy track. Among them are MrMomz.com, Athomedad.com and the Parent Soup section of America Online. Here they can discuss everything from diaper disasters to feelings of isolation. On Slowlane.com, the slickest and most complete of the sites, the slogan is, "You are not alone."
At the convention, men who had known each other only by e-mail met for the first time. Attendance has increased from 35 in the group's first year in 1996 and is down from 100 in 1998. Christopher Coby, 35, said connecting with other fathers like him through the Internet had pulled him out of his version of postpartum funk.
"I had two kids in diapers at once and I was fried!" said Mr. Coby, who lives in Wake Forest, N.C. "I was online and I kind of came out out of lurk mode and got on a couple of lists."
That saved him, he said: "I came here to meet the guys face to face and just say thanks."
Mr. Coby is 6-foot-2, weighs 215 pounds and is a former tank commander in the Army reserves. He quit teaching elementary school after his son was born because his wife, who works for a consulting firm, had a higher salary and better benefits.
He proudly wears an apron that his wife gave him last Father's Day that says, "Women want me. Martha Stewart fears me."
How many Chris Cobys are out there is unclear. The Census Bureau's last survey on the subject, in 1993, reported that 1.9 million unemployed men were the primary caregivers of children up to 14 years old -- down from a recession high of more than 2 million in 1991. A Bureau of Labor Statistics study released in September showed that, from 1991 to 1996, unemployed men ages 25 to 54 who chose not to look for work because of "home responsibilities" rose to 8.4 percent from 4.6 percent.
That change is significant, experts say, because men have traditionally been unwilling to admit household duties as the reason for their unemployment.
James Levine, director of the Fatherhood Project at the Families and Work Institute in New York, said, "The number of men at home taking care of their kids is the best-kept secret in American child care." Many of them, he said, are blue collar: "cops and firemen working night shifts while their wives work days." Such men are not unemployed and may not consider themselves stay-at-home fathers.
Mr. Levine believes there has been a "quantum leap" in the numbers of stay-at-home fathers since he researched his book, "Who Will Raise the Children? New Options for Fathers and Mothers," 25 years ago. "They were really few and far between then," he said. "It was considered nuts."
Still far from the norm, stay-at-home fathers are gaining acceptance. Even approval. In his new book, "Fatherneed" (Free Press), Dr. Kyle Pruett, a clinical professor of psychology at the Yale Child Studies Center, found slightly above-average intellectual, social and emotional development among a small group of children reared by stay-at-home fathers. He followed the families for 10 years.
Among the pop-cultural barometers of shifting breadwinner roles is a pilot to be shot this month for a mid-season sitcom called "Daddio," produced by Disney for NBC, about one such man. Matt Berry, an executive producer of the show, stayed home with his children during his 15 years working nights as a stand-up comedian. He said he and his writing partner had pitched the idea to networks before, unsuccessfully because the reaction was always, "but people won't respect him as a man," he said. "And we were like, 'Why is that a tainted concept? Why can't he be a man because he decided to stay home full time with his kids?' "
Despite their growing ranks, men who stay home still face a problem well-known to women in the same position: isolation.
Dr. Robert Frank, a psychologist who has organized these conventions for the last four years, conducted a study in 1996 of 371 fathers who identified themselves as their children's "primary caregivers." Of those, 63 percent said they felt isolated, versus 37 percent of mothers in the same position.
The isolation manifests itself in many ways. Loneliness, depression, stir-craziness that some men described as "bouncing off the walls." And the familiar corollary of all these problems: weight gain.
In a small discussion group, Vince Gratton, a former prosecutor from Pueblo, Colo., with three girls (one 9 and 3-year-old twins) said he had started working out. "I've been weight-training for four months," he said. "I can bench 265 and squat 400 and I'm going to crush the next guy who says, 'What do you do?' "
Mr. Gratton, 56, said he had to go all the way to Chicago to find another stay-at-home dad from his hometown. "Now I got this big guy here, who's sensitive and loving," Mr. Gratton said gruffly, motioning to another burly man in an aviator jacket. But no one else, he said. "I live in a steel town where manly men do manly things."
The tables in the classroom were pushed together to encourage intimacy. Experiences of a so-called "glass wall" separating mothers from fathers in parks and schoolyards echoed around the room. Edward Howard, 54, said, "I go to the playground with my son and I'm tired of being looked at as some kind of sexual pervert."
Equally frustrating as feeling frozen out for these men is being condescended to. Jim DiCenzo said the principal of his child's school in San Diego told him, "I think it's so cute that you stay home with your kids." His reaction: "I could have strangled her."
Still, some of them said, better to drive to a distant Burger King for a play date with another stay-at-home father than endure the awkwardness or boredom of the company of women. One man, who asked not to be named, said, "I don't want to sit around and talk for an hour about shopping or listening to them complain about their husbands."
The occasional retrograde comment aside, most of the convention's attendees regard themselves as fully evolved males, in touch with their nurturing sides.
After screening his 22-minute documentary film "Homedaddy," Kent Ayyildiz told his rapt audience, "The gains women have made in the workplace should be balanced by men making the same gains in the house." As the closing credits rolled, the audience whooped its approval and gave the ponytailed Mr. Ayyildiz a standing ovation. They cheered again when he said he no longer identified himself as a filmmaker who also happens to stay home with his child, but as a "homedaddy" who also happens to make films.
Even so, Mr. Ayyildiz admitted to a certain ambivalance about putting child rearing first. "These are the growing years of my career," he said. "At the same time, I get one chance with my son."
Family finances compelled most of these men to stay home. Discovering that they enjoy it has kept many of them there in flusher economic times.
Chris Cooper, who in 1998 published a compendium of essays called "The At-Home Dad Handbook," said he was working at Athlete's Foot in Atlanta and his wife at United Parcel Service when they had their first child.
"We didn't want to go the day care route and with her having the better salary potential, we decided I'd quit work and stay home," said Mr. Cooper, who now has two children, ages 6 and 5, and lives in St. Paul. In 1997, he started a group called Dad-to-Dad, which has 30 chapters nationwide.
"Now that I can be home with the kids, I look at things differently from when I was single or just married," he said. "Then I was career-driven and work meant pretty much everything to me. Now my kids are my life and raising them is what I consider my 'career.' "
Ed Steffek, a former math teacher, said he had listed "homemaker" as his profession on his daughter's birth certificate.
The commitment to being a good parent outweighed other forms of housework for many men at the convention. Peter Baylies, publisher of the At-Home Dad newsletter and Web site, recalled the adjustment when he and his wife traded places.
"After a couple of months she said, 'When are you gonna clean the bathroom?' I was humiliated. I didn't care if the bathroom was clean. It didn't make any difference to me."
Peter Hoh, husband of a nurse in St. Paul, expressed a similar attitude toward what used to be called women's work. "People say, 'Your wife works. You stay home. Who cleans the house?' And the answer, when people open the door, is clearly, 'Nobody!' "
The cleaning issue came up in Joanne Massey's seminar, "The Anatomy of a Working Woman's Mom." Her husband, Jay Massey, runs Slowlane.com and a Web site design company from their house in Pensacola, Fla. That makes him a "work-at-home dad," she said.
Ms. Massey, the only woman participating in the convention, told the audience that her husband's work day begins when hers ends. As a result, "Mom has to clean up when I come home," she said. "That was hard to adjust to."
She also said when she had asked their 5-year-old son what he wanted to be when he grows up, he said, "I want to be an at-home dad." That got a big, fist-pumping "Yes!"
In defense of their lifestyle choice, the at-home fathers often point out that before the industrial revolution, children were accustomed to having their fathers around, on the farm or in the blacksmith shop.
"Ten years ago, it was considered freakish," said Mr. Baylies, looking around at the clusters of conventioneers gathered for a low-cal lunch of pasta and salad. "You'll know that stay-at-home dads are totally accepted when we don't have to do this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At-home fathers found support and friendship at an Illinois convention. (Lois Bernstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEN (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); WORKING MOTHERS (69%); ARMIES (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COBY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



64 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR 2000: Speeches, Star Power and a Whole Lot of Noise Ring In the New;
An International Hug At Mexico-U.S. Border

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex., Jan. 1

 BODY:
In a vivid reminder that many people along the Texas-Mexico border regard the region as one country instead of two, the mayors of Laredo and its Mexican sister city, Nuevo Laredo, walked across a bridge above the Rio Grande shortly before the new year arrived and celebrated the new millennium with an international hug and a kiss.
"Como esta?" asked Mayor Betty Flores of Laredo as she greeted Mayor Horacio Garza Garza of Nuevo Laredo at the halfway point of International Bridge No. 1. 
 The meeting was freighted with symbolism for this isolated border region where culture and nationality seem as blurred and fluid as the Rio Grande itself. A few hundred people shouted "Viva Mexico!" after singing the Mexican national anthem and then cheered loudly after listening to "The Star Spangled Banner."
"Our values have stood the test of time," Ms. Flores said in a short speech.
On the last day of the old millennium, the scene at the bridge had been the usual: old women and cowboys, teenagers and tourists and thousands of other people crossed back and forth, some shopping, others coming or going from jobs on one side of the border or the other. The notion that a line on a map could create hard boundaries seemed as far-fetched as, say, the world changing with the tick of a clock.
"It's like it was one city," said Terry Medinilla, a salesperson at El Porvenir, a clothing store that depends on customers walking across the bridge from Mexico. "We can't be without them, and they can't be without us."
By late in the evening, the bridge was empty, closed by officials for the "abrazo," or embrace, ceremony. At about 11 p.m., Central time, the Mexican mayor and his entourage followed a contingent of green-helmeted soldiers toward the stone marker signifying the international boundary.
From the American side, Ms. Flores and members of the local city council walked arm-in-arm to greet their Mexican counterparts. Four Laredo police officers carrying the American flag made up a modest color guard.
The future actually arrived in Laredo six years before the new millennium. In January 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement transformed Laredo into the busiest cargo crossing point on the border. Unemployment plummeted as 12,000 trucks a day carried goods back and forth. The trucks have also polluted the air and clogged the roads.
After the embrace and the speeches, the two mayors walked back to their side of the river, dividing into two countries once more.
In Nuevo Laredo, a huge red, white and green Mexican flag fluttered beside the river.
In Laredo, a few hundred people attended a free concert. Fireworks crackled from both sides of the river, as did a more dangerous local New Year's custom, gunshots fired in celebration into the air.
Then, an hour or so later, the noise subsided, traffic began flowing across the bridge as the border checkpoints reopened, and life on the border resumed along the stale, green waters of the Rio Grande.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of the United States highlighting Laredo, Texas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); TEXAS, USA (96%); LAREDO, TX, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILLENNIUM (90%); CITIES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: BETTY FLORES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



65 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: The Body Politic

SERIES: TESTING POLITICS/Does It Work? Should It Be Fixed?

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1

 BODY:
The United States enters its 54th presidential election year in a period of remarkable calm and great economic prosperity, with dozens of other nations struggling to adapt American political forms. Yet the American people question their political system on one front after another.
Some of the challenges are overt. Former Senator Bill Bradley, who like Senator John McCain has made condemning the campaign finance system a major element of his presidential bid, says "democracy is a broken thermostat" because of big contributions. Meanwhile, the Reform Party squabbles but still stands as evidence that millions of Americans reject the traditional structure. 
 But the most telling condemnation is passive. A majority (51 percent) of voting-age Americans chose not to vote in 1996, and 64 percent did not vote in 1998. Curtis Gans, an expert on voter turnout, says that more than half the children in America live in households where neither parent votes. Huge majorities tell pollsters they are not paying attention to this year's campaign.
Similarly, it is getting harder to recruit able candidates to run for office at a time of insatiable news media scrutiny and incessant demands of fund-raising. And savvy veterans drop out at a high rate, especially from the moderate centers of the two parties.
These more fundamental questions and concerns about the way the system works are generally shelved, or used themselves as fodder to appeal to voters, as politicians and the press focus on the nomination contests and the chances of Republicans capturing the presidency or Democrats taking the House. The issues have been building for decades, but come into special focus in 2000, after the first presidential election since 1924 when a majority did not vote.
The obstacles to participation have been thrown up by the "system" -- of politicians, consultants, interest groups and the press -- just when legal barriers to registration and voting have disappeared.
Some of the obstacles come from deliberate decisions. Some television advertisements are really intended to drive down turnout. Both parties have become highly skilled at drawing the boundaries of Congressional and legislative districts so that few seats will be truly competitive. That preserves the careers of incumbents.
One way of looking at these trends was offered by Theda Skocpol, professor of government and sociology at Harvard. Professor Skocpol says politicians use the information age to locate and "compete over a very narrow slice of swing voters."
At the same time, what she calls "an oligarchy" of interests uses expertise, lobbyists and campaign contributions to achieve its ends with government, "rather than by mobilizing large numbers of their fellow citizens into a competitive electoral force."
Some of the old ways of involving citizens have died out, as politicians get their messages out through television and direct mail. Door-to-door canvassing does live on in Iowa and New Hampshire, but almost as museum pieces.
Anne Wexler, an antiwar advocate in the 1960's and a Carter aide in the 70's who runs a public relations firm here, observed that in the nation's capital, where people do care about politics, neither Mr. Bradley, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas nor Vice President Al Gore has a headquarters where an interested citizen could volunteer to, say, stuff envelopes. Writing a check is the only participation welcomed.
But even more serious may be the way the system is portrayed -- fairly and unfairly, by itself and by the news media.
Any veteran observer of Congress, for example, would say that the typical member today is better educated and harder-working than whoever held the seat 35 years ago, and at the same time less likely to be a drunk or a womanizer, or to take bribes. Yet consumers of a press that rarely covered those weaknesses before and regularly covers them now have an opposite set of impressions.
Mr. Gans, who heads the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, blames consultants for "the conduct of campaigns, especially at the end, in 30-second attack ads that vilify all the candidates and create a miasma over the political system and invite people not to vote for particular candidates and not to vote at all."
John C. Danforth, who retired from the Senate after 18 years in 1994 to practice law in St. Louis, and insists he did not "go away mad," says he is struck by how much Congress now seems to be wholly involved in "partisan combat," not legislating.
Mr. Danforth speculated that an influx of Republicans who had been "treated like dogs" by House Democrats led to the change, as they saw a chance to get even and scorned "anyone who tried to do anything on a bipartisan basis," like his late Republican colleague, John H. Chafee.
The bitter partisan tone in Washington not only discourages potential Congressional candidates who may be used to amiable state legislatures, it turns off voters, too.
That effect was sketched by a knowledgeable former Washingtonian, Nancy Sinnott Dwight. In the early 1980's, Mrs. Dwight ran the National Republican Congressional Committee here. Then she married and moved to Lyme, N.H., where every four years she gets a lot of politics to watch.
As she hears candidates, she is struck by this year's supply of "terrific ideas." But she says the atmosphere in Washington leads voters to brush off these ideas because they think there is "too much paralysis."
"The system can't seem to get things done," Mrs. Dwight said. A voter can download a good idea off the Web, she said, but does not believe a candidate can make it happen in Washington.
No examination of the last session of Congress, for example, would challenge those doubts. But Mr. Gans is not alone in his worry that the news media often make things look worse than they are, either covering things cynically or not at all.
For four decades, after all, the political observers with the biggest audiences -- first Johnny Carson and then Jay Leno and David Letterman -- have offered uninterrupted cynical criticism of every president and every member of Congress anyone ever heard of, from Lyndon Johnson to Newt Gingrich.
Joel Silbey, professor of history at Cornell, said the combination of news and talk had created "a culture of criticism" that portrayed government as a continual failure.
Even the revered Walter Cronkite, Professor Silbey said, played a role. When Mr. Cronkite signed off news broadcasts by saying, "And that's the way it is, Friday, March 28, 1980 -- the 146th day of captivity for the Americans in Iran," Mr. Silbey said the anchorman was saying that on that day, again, the American government was powerless.
Jon Margolis, a retired Chicago Tribune political columnist, said he thought the problem became severe in the mid-1980's, when politics began to be covered by "younger people who didn't like politicians and did not like politics" and were disappointed that it was not entertaining.
The news media are often attacked, especially by academics, for paying too much attention to who is ahead and too little to issues. Nelson Polsby, professor of government at the University of California at Berkeley, goes a step further. Professor Polsby says the press and television engage in "the manufacture of a horse race." He calls the news media just another interest group, "attempting to make their product interesting."
That kind of attention, he said, exaggerated the challenges to Bob Dole in 1996 by implying that Steve Forbes and Patrick J. Buchanan should be taken seriously as potential presidents "and basically made Bob Dole spend all his money," weakening him for the race against President Clinton.
There are some modest hopes. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, the lieutenant governor of Maryland, said from observing the way her own children used the Internet and the way it was used in Jesse Ventura's Reform Party victory in Minnesota, she believed it would increase political involvement. "It's immediate," she said. "It's not just television talking at you, but you participate."
At another level, Mrs. Dwight said that in her part of New Hampshire, people were actively involved in the problems that mattered most to them, working hard as volunteers for their churches and schools.
Mr. Silbey said that in Ithaca many of the people most active in urging policies on local government were nonvoters, preferring to influence through confrontation.
Mr. Gans dismisses those impressions as idiosyncratic, insisting that national polling data shows that "if people don't vote, they tend not to participate in any other societal activity."
"By and large," he said, "they are disengaged from society."
Not everybody interviewed -- a group whose common threads are knowledge of politics and little or no direct involvement in the 2000 elections -- was that bothered by nonvoting. Richard Norton Smith, a biographer and former Republican speech writer who heads the Gerald R. Ford Library, said, "I don't think you condemn the system if people don't choose to involve themselves in it."
If the nation truly has only a 12-second attention span, he said, that may be the fault not of the candidates or consultants, but of whoever invented the television remote control -- and of the people themselves.
It is the American people, he said, "who tell pollsters they are offended by negative ads," and then elect the candidate who uses them.
"We have no one to blame but ourselves," he said. "In the end, democracy is all about standing in front of the mirror."
 
Testing Politics
This article is the first of a series that will appear during the election year, exploring the condition of the American political system through the prism of the campaign. Other articles will examine obstacles to potential candidates for office, the participation of campaign volunteers and the degree to which the system assimilates new voters. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); SOCIOLOGY (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%); 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



66 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Formidable but Faded Feats From the Previous Turn of the Century

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
How far Major League Baseball has come in 100 years. In 1900 the National League snubbed the newly named American League, denying the upstart equal status, even refusing to acknowledge the league's existence. In the first year of this new century, the leagues are not only considered equal but they also have become blurred by the elimination of separate league offices and league presidents.
In the first year of the century just ended, the Players Protective Association was formed and won significant concessions, without a work stoppage, from the A.L. president, Ban Johnson: no player would be traded, sold or sent to the minor leagues without his written permission, disputes would be submitted to binding arbitration, and a three-year limit would exist on the clause that enabled clubs to reserve players. It was enlightened thinking unmatched to this day. 
 But later that year, at the same meeting at which they ignored the other league, N.L. owners rejected the efforts of the association's lawyer to gain similar rights for players in that league. In some ways, baseball has not come very far at all.
At the turn of the century 100 years ago, Cy Young had run off a streak of nine successive seasons in which he won more than 30 games three times and more than 20 six other times. But he didn't win the Cy Young award even once.
When players' achievements are discussed or listed in record books, they are usually done so in the context of "modern" times, that is, from 1900 on. Most people tend to ignore what players did before 1900, even if they were two-century players.
It is not very likely that sometime later in this century a new modern era beginning in 2000 will be recognized, although the way hitters have been hitting home runs and teams have been scoring runs in recent seasons, this era may have to be considered separately from the past to account for offensive inflation.
Whatever line of demarcation was created to separate pre- and post-1900, events that occurred before should not be ignored. Some had an impact on post-1900 developments; some were just interesting in their own right.
For eight seasons before 1900, the National League had 12 teams. But a month before that season began, the league reduced its membership to eight teams, lopping off Baltimore, Cleveland, Washington and Louisville. Cleveland, known as the Spiders, finished the 1899 season with a 20-134 record, the worst for number of losses and winning percentage (.130) ever compiled by what would be classified as a major league team.
The downsizing of the league left New York, Brooklyn, Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, St. Louis and Chicago. Those eight cities would be the National League for the next 53 years, until the Braves moved from Boston to Milwaukee in 1953.
Anticipating the elimination of one of the two teams he owned, Barney Dreyfuss "traded" 13 of his Louisville players for four of his Pittsburgh players. Included in the trade were four players who would one day be in the Hall of Fame -- shortstop Honus Wagner, outfielder Fred Clarke and pitchers Jack Chesbro and Rube Waddell.
 
Sluggers Lost in Time
Tommy Leach was one of the players in the Louisville-Pittsburgh trade who didn't reach the Hall of Fame, but he holds a distinction nonetheless. Leach led the National League in home runs in 1902, and his total of six was the lowest total for a home run champion in the 20th century. These days that is a routine week for Mark McGwire.
In 1894 Bob Lowe of the Boston Beaneaters became the first player to hit four home runs in a game. He hit only 13 others during the season. That same year his teammate Hugh Duffy hit .438, which remains the highest average any player has ever had. Duffy also edged Lowe for the home run title, 18 to 17.
At that time the home run record was 27, the number Ned Williamson hit for the Chicago White Stockings (Chicago's American League team would later appropriate the name) in 1884. The third baseman whacked 25 of his home runs at the team's home park, Lakefront Park, which happened to have the shortest distances of any park ever, 196 feet to left field, 180 to right.
Before that season, balls hit over those fences were doubles. They were doubles after that season, too. Williamson, who had hit a total of eight home runs in six previous seasons, connected for a total of 29 in six subsequent seasons. If that record can be discounted as a fluke, the record-holder before Babe Ruth made home runs his province beginning in 1919 was Harry Stovey, a first baseman, who hit 14 home runs for Philadelphia in 1883.
Neither Stovey nor Williamson took his home run bat into the 20th century so neither has been a part of baseball lore. Bill Duggleby is not either, but the Philadelphia Phillies pitcher should be. He registered his best season in 1901 when he compiled a 20-12 record, but that is not why he should be remembered. He hit a grand slam in his first major league at-bat in 1898.
What is so special about that? No other player has hit a grand slam in his first major league at-bat. Bobby Bonds is the only other player who hit one in his first game, but his shot, in 1968, came in his third time at the plate. Ruth, Aaron, Mays, McGwire -- no one did what Duggleby did.
 
The Iron Men
Joe McGinnity pitched his first major league game, for Baltimore, in 1899. He won 28 games, just as he did the following season for Brooklyn, which in the first month of the new century purchased him and five other players from cash-strapped Baltimore. But it was with the New York Giants that the right-hander earned his reputation and nickname, Iron Man.
In August 1903 McGinnity pitched both games of doubleheaders three times and all three times gained complete-game twin victories. He started 48 games that season and completed 44. He won 31 times (he won 35 the following season). He pitched 434 innings, the most anyone pitched in the 1900's.
Cy Young won 511 games, more than anyone won in the 1900's or the 1800's. Young played from 1890 through 1911 and completed 749 of the 815 games he started, a 92 percent ratio. He was a 20-game or 30-game winner 13 times in a 14-season span, missing only in 1900, when he had a 19-19 record. He gained 267 of his victories before 1900. Only 28 pitchers in history have won more than that total.
 
A Star and a Holdout
For more than a quarter-century pitchers have been pampered and treated as gingerly as if they were made of Tiffany glass. From four-man rotations teams have gone to five. Pitch counts are used as a safeguard against pitchers being overworked, but in reality as a way for managers to protect themselves against charges of overuse.
No one ever pampered Amos Rusie. A strong right-hander, Rusie was primarily an 1890's guy who won 246 games in nine seasons. That's an average of 27 victories a season. In only one of those seasons did he fail to win at least 20 games. That was the only year he did not pitch for the Giants. He won more than 30 in four successive seasons.
Rusie struck out more than 300 batters in each of his first three seasons with the Giants, 1890, '91 and '92. No pitcher would have 300 strikeouts in three different seasons until the 1960's, but Sandy Koufax did not do it three years in a row.
Twice Rusie made as many as 62 starts. In each of his first three seasons with the Giants, he pitched 500 or more innings. Pitchers today need three seasons to accumulate 500 innings.
Rusie was as tough on management as he was on opposing batters. He held out the entire 1896 season because the Giants' owner would not give him the extra $200 he wanted. But he wound up getting what would have been his entire salary for that year because National League teams contributed to a fund to make up the $3,000 Rusie lost.
The other owners were not being charitable. They wanted to avoid Rusie's lawsuit in which he was seeking free agency. What a concept. Owners continued avoiding it for the next 80 years.
Rusie returned in 1897 and pitched himself to a 28-10 record and led the league with a 2.54 earned run average. The next season he was a 20-game winner for the eighth consecutive time. But again he and the Giants tangled over the salary he should receive.
This time he sat out two seasons, 1899 and 1900. It was as if Pedro Martinez had sat out last season and would do the same next season. After the 1900 season the Giants traded Rusie to Cincinnati for Christy Mathewson, who had pitched for the Giants as a rookie that year but had been drafted by the Reds for $100 after the Giants sent him back to the minor leagues.
Rusie was only 29 years old, but he would stage no more holdouts. He started two games for the Reds and relieved in one, and his career was over. Mathewson? He won 20 that season and would win 373 games in a career in which he was a 30-game winner four times and a 20-game winner nine other times, winning 22 or more games for 12 successive seasons.
 
Birth of the Yankees
At the turn of the century, the team that would dominate the 20th century didn't exist. The New York Yankees, ne Highlanders, came into existence for the 1903 season as part of the peace pact between the N.L. and the A.L. The A.L. agreed to stay out of Pittsburgh, and the N.L. agreed to let the A.L. have a New York team.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cy Young pitched from 1890 to 1911 and completed 749 of the 815 games he started. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%); MARYLAND, USA (51%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); BOSTON, MA, USA (65%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON BEANEATERS (62%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%); MARYLAND, USA (51%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); BOSTON, MA, USA (65%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (75%); STRIKES (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (67%); 

PERSON: NED WILLIAMSON (66%); HARRY STOVEY (55%); HUGH DUFFY (55%); TOMMY LEACH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



67 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 4;Column 1;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Algeria. Remember That Name.

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
HIGH above the sparkling blue sweep of the Bay of Algiers, with panoramic views over whitewashed colonial palaces and palm-treed gardens that still make the city one of the jewels of the Mediterranean, there is a magnificent hostelry.
Once a palace, it became, at the height of France's 130 years of colonial rule in Algeria, the St. George's Hotel. On an upper floor, with a balcony scented in the springtime with mimosa blossoms, there is a suite with a brass plaque at the door recording the fact that Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower occupied the suite for several months in 1942 and 1943, when American and allied troops were pushing German forces eastward along the north African coast during World War II. Everyone knew, in that dark winter, the strategic importance of Algeria. 
 But that moment, during the climactic war of the 20th century, might have been the last time the American public really focused its attention on Algeria. Today, as a new century begins amid fears of a new kind of warfare -- far less intense but nonetheless frightening -- Algeria is once again thrusting itself onto America's consciousness, now that figures linked to its Islamic underground have been arrested while seemingly intent on bringing their terrorist war into the United States.
It is, of course, an utterly different Algeria. Today, the St. George's is the El-Djazair Hotel, state-owned like much else in independent Algeria, its lobby re-done in the over-marbled, socialist-modern style familiar from visits to Communist Eastern Europe. The armchairs by the front door are occupied 24 hours a day by the slim-hipped, chain-smoking watchdogs of the Algerian security police, without whose guardianship no trip outside the hotel by foreigners is allowed.
Americans hardly ever come. They have been warned off by nearly 40 years of military-dominated government since independence, by socialist economic policies that have all but wrecked the economy, and above all by an eight-year civil war. The conflict has been one of the most savage anywhere since Algeria's previous nightmare, the one from 1954 to 1962 in which the French colonial army fought fruitlessly to stave off independence. About a million people died in that earlier fighting, and so far about 100,000 have died in the current carnage. Many of the new victims have died at the hands of a shadowy guerrilla movement known, by its French initials, as the G.I.A. -- the Armed Islamic Group.
If a visitor wants to know something about the G.I.A., or about the wider conflict in which it has been fighting for an extreme form of Islamic rule, there are few better places to venture than up the hill from the El-Djazair, to one of the grandest American embassies anywhere, set in breathtakingly lovely grounds.
Here, amid graceful inner courtyards and arches, American diplomats have a command of the political and economic miseries beyond the embassy's high walls. The view is all the more impressive for the fact that the Algerian security police, and the State Department's own rules, make venturing out of the compound about as easy as heading out from a cavalry fort in Indian country. The current ambassador, Cameron Hume, a man of formidable charm and intellect, has defied the security rules to travel about more than most ambassadors, but even he would not exactly claim to be a denizen of the place.
All of which may go some way to explain why, two weeks ago, many Americans were puzzled to learn that an Algerian man had been arrested while driving off a car ferry from Canada at Port Angeles, Wash., with, American customs officials allege, enough bomb-making material in the trunk of his car to blow up almost any building. Suddenly there were headlines across America about Ahmed Ressam and the wider terrorist threat he has been thought to represent. But what of the country he hails from, and why might he have wanted to bomb a target in the United States? Above all, what is it that Americans must now begin to understand about Algeria?
The plain fact is that Algeria, however distant it has grown to Americans since it made headlines for them during World War II, remains of enormous strategic importance.
Not only is it the largest country on the African continent, in terms of area; it also has vast oil and gas reserves that have kept American oilmen barracked at remote sites in the Sahara desert for 30 years or more. Today, they are in fact the most numerous Americans in Algeria, even if for the most part they pass swiftly through Algiers and the other major cities, and have little contact with the larger society.
As significant as its resources, Algeria fills a long stretch of the southern Mediterranean, and thus is of compelling military and political significance. And what happens in Algeria is of profound significance to many of America's allies in Western Europe. Algiers is only an overnight ferry journey from Marseilles and even closer to Spain, allowing Algeria's enfeebled economy to send a huge flow of immigrant workers to Europe, where there are 4 million Algerians in FRance alone.
And then there is the war, and how it may have led to Mr. Ressam driving off that ferry in Washington. In this, perhaps more than anything else, Algeria matters to Americans these days.
In the history of modern Islamic radicalism, two countries have played pivotal roles -- Iran toward one end of the so-called "crescent" of Muslim nations that reaches from Morocco and Mauritania in the west to Afghanistan and Pakistan in the east, and Algeria toward the other end.
Twenty years ago Iran mesmerized the world with its mullahs' revolution, with its seizure of American diplomats and their embassy in Tehran and, later, with the religious decree that urged the killing of the novelist Salman Rushdie. Algeria, in 1992, lighted fires of equal intensity among Islamic radicals when its secular government called parliamentary elections, the first more-or-less free ones in the country's history, but canceled them at the last minute when an Islamic party, the Islamic Salvation Front, was on the verge of victory. The army generals had thought canceling the elections was a good idea; their reward was the rise of the G.I.A., a breakaway from the Islamic Salvation Front. Rather than try again for a generally moderate form of Islamic government, this group espoused worldwide holy war, going well beyond the Salvation Front prescriptions.
THE conflict that resulted brought to Algeria a ghastliness that has been stunning, even by the standards of a country that knew extraordinary savagery, on both the French and the Algerian sides, during the independence war. The G.I.A., propagating among its fighters the belief that the triumph of Islam justifies the killing of anybody who does not actively support them, has gone into villages and towns and slaughtered hundreds of civilians at a time, often by cutting throats.
The army has responded in kind, setting up militias called "Patriotes" and other shadowy units; these are believed to have taken a leaf from France's counter-insurgency tactics in the 1950's, when "rogue" units set up to look like fighters of the independence guerrillas went about massacring villagers. Several thousand people have disappeared after being arrested by the army and police, and cemeteries in Algiers and elsewhere are strewn with gravestones carrying the sinister marking "X Algerien," often meaning that the person buried there was killed in custody and buried anonymously.
From this background have sprung faceless battalions of the G.I.A. in Europe, and from among them, investigators believe, came Mr. Ressam. So if he is another kind of "X Algerien" to Americans, it may be time to strip away that anonymity, to learn more about him and his country and their tragedies.
Six decades ago, an American general in Room 1101 at the St. George's Hotel learned at first hand why Algeria mattered; it is a lesson it may be time to relearn.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday on what Americans need to know about Algeria referred incorrectly to the country's land area. It is not the largest in Africa; Sudan's is.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Overlooking the city of Algiers from a vantage point in the old port. (Associated Press); Algeria's civil war has taken a heavy toll on civilians. This boy and girl lost their family in a 1998 massacre. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (91%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: ALGIERS, ALGERIA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (91%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); ALGIERS, ALGERIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ARMIES (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); CIVIL WAR (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ARRESTS (66%); TERRORISM (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); SMOKING (50%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



68 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 22;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 2505 words

HEADLINE: Nominees May Be Chosen Quickly in Rare Competitive Primary Season

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
Only 22 days until the first votes are cast in Iowa, the chairmen of the Republican and Democratic parties say they are bracing for a presidential primary season that is so competitive -- and unexpectedly so -- that they have to reach back 40 years to come up with a comparison.
Yet the entire exercise may be over soon after the public begins to pay attention. This will be the speediest -- critics say hastiest -- dash to the nomination ever because several states, seeking greater political sway, elbowed their way in by moving up the dates of their contests. 
 The rejiggered calendar means the races will go off like a string of firecrackers, beginning with the caucuses in Iowa on Jan. 24 and the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 1, followed by primaries in the electoral giants of California, New York and several other states on March 7. After a six-week rush of voting -- less than half the National Football League's regular season schedule -- the nominees to be the leader of the free world may well be apparent.
As recently as last summer, advisers to the two front-runners, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, expressed few qualms about the truncated schedule. They were so immersed in constructing what they viewed as organizational juggernauts that they did not seem particularly alert to threats from within their ranks. And they anticipated wrapping up their nominations quickly and tidily so they could turn to the general election. Instead they now have no choice but to strategize over how the outcome of one contest could affect the next one.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore are still the favorites; they may well face each other in November 2000. But now, in an unaccustomed position for the leading contenders, they are playing catch-up, at least in the high-profile state of New Hampshire, where polls show that both contests are too close to call. Mr. Gore must contend with an unanticipated, and threatening, challenge from former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, and Mr. Bush faces one from Senator John McCain of Arizona.
While Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush are comfortably ahead in national surveys, their challengers hope that those campaigns become unglued in New Hampshire -- and never recover. Adding to their credibility, and political muscle, Mr. Bradley and Mr. McCain made striking gains in fund-raising near the end of 1999.
"It's going to be an unbelievable six weeks," said Ed Rendell, general chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "On our side, you might see ups and downs and twists and turns in an eight-day period. You will think one of the candidates has the upper hand and -- bingo! -- he loses the next week."
Recalling the presidential campaign of 1960, Mr. Rendell, who retires tomorrow as mayor of Philadelphia, said, "You've got to go back to Kennedy and Johnson to find two co-equals who are really battling head to head. And I don't recall the last primary campaign when we've had two candidates who are so well known and so well funded." But the truth is, Lyndon B. Johnson was never viewed as much a threat to John F. Kennedy as Mr. Bradley is now to Mr. Gore.
Jim Nicholson, chairman of the Republican National Committee, also said this year's campaign reminded him of the high stakes on both sides in 1960. Even so, Richard M. Nixon never came close to losing the nomination to Nelson A. Rockefeller or other rivals, who were not considered as potent as Mr. McCain is this year. "If you want to include both parties in the calculus, this might be the most competitive situation since 1960," he said. "There's a lot at stake and it's just going to get more intense."
Asked to handicap the Republican race, Mr. Nicholson, in unusually candid comments for a party chairman, all but brushed off four contenders. "Bush is clearly the front-runner in terms of money," he said. "But Senator McCain is a great candidate who has shown real skill at retail campaigning in New Hampshire and is a very authentic American hero. So anything can happen in this thing." Mr. Nicholson hastened to add that the potential of Steve Forbes, with millions from his family fortune at his disposal, should not be disregarded.
After a prelude to 2000 that was hardly sedate -- candidates piled up millions of dollars in donations and traded jabs throughout the year -- the contenders are about to enter the most frenzied, and possibly ferocious, stretch thus far. This week, candidates will practically move to Iowa and New Hampshire. They have accelerated their deluge of 30-second television commercials.
And the schedule of successive debates might hearten even advocates of good-government: Democrats will face off in New Hampshire on Wednesday; followed by Republicans on Thursday; Republicans in South Carolina on Friday, and Democrats in Iowa on Saturday. That accounts for just this week.
"They stick their signs everywhere," said Ted Bailey, describing how politicking -- and cold weather -- have overtaken Chichester, N.H., where he is a selectman. "But they're going to find it hard sticking signs in now because the ground's frozen."
The major contenders are also keeping an eye just off center stage, where a drama is unfolding over who will carry the mantle of Ross Perot and the Reform Party he founded. While Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator, and Donald J. Trump, the real estate tycoon, are campaigning most aggressively and organizing in several states, other possible contenders include Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota. And few are counting out a surprise re-emergence of Mr. Perot himself.
The significance of the 2000 campaign reaches far beyond the White House. It is no exaggeration to say that all three branches of government are at stake. Democrats need a net gain of only six seats to retake control of the House. It is far less likely that Republicans will lose the Senate, although Democrats could pick up seats. And because of expected retirements, the next president may well fill between three and five vacancies on the Supreme Court.
And the election of state legislators in November is critically important. Nearly two dozen legislative chambers are so evenly divided that either party could win control of them. But those legislators, along with the governors, will use results of the 2000 census to redraw boundaries of districts of Congressional candidates in 2002 and the four subsequent elections. The process could affect who controls the House of Representatives for years.
Still, with the exception, perhaps, of the expected high-octane match between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani for a Senate seat from New York, the presidential competition is certain to command the most interest.
"Probably in March of last year I thought, 'I bet I don't get very worked up about this,' " said Tom Brokaw, anchor of the NBC Nightly News, who expects that his program will soon begin broadcasting campaign stories every day. "But people are slowly awakening that there's a real race going on here. McCain and Bradley have opened the door to a lot of public interest."
In fact, one explanation for the allure of the McCain and Bradley insurgencies is that some journalists, as well as ordinary voters, seem charmed by them personally -- and have a hankering for some drama.
Despite the ferment in New Hampshire, history is on the side of Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush. Mr. Gore's advisers reel off their institutional advantages -- from the power of the White House, to committed delegates to endorsements from labor groups to important elected officials -- that have dragged their predecessors across the finish line.
Karl Rove, the mastermind of the Bush operation, recites the history like a mantra. "No Republican candidate who has led by double digits in August of the Gallup Poll the year before the election has failed to win the nomination," he explained. "If history is the guide, Bush stands a very good chance of being the Republican nominee for president."
But this is no ordinary presidential year. No one knows how the short-circuited season will alter the dynamic and, ultimately, affect who comes out on top.
Most strategists on both sides agree that Mr. Bradley has a better chance of toppling Mr. Gore than Mr. McCain does of snatching the nomination from Mr. Bush, because the Democrats are evenly matched financially. In addition, while Mr. McCain is concentrating his resources in New Hampshire, Mr. Bradley has assembled a national organization.
This much seems clear: the New Hampshire primary is a make-or-break battle for Mr. McCain and Mr. Bradley. That is where they have made the most impressive showings. And they are each counting on wins there to energize their candidacies -- and to demonstrate that Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush are not invincible.
"If McCain wins there I'm not sure he's very well poised to convert that into a national campaign," said William G. Mayer, a political scientist at Northeastern University in Boston. "Bradley's better positioned to do that. He's managed to stay pretty even with Gore in fund-raising."
Because of the high expectations in the Granite State, Mr. Bradley and Mr. McCain no longer have the luxury of sneaking up on the front-runner -- as Gary Hart did against Walter F. Mondale in 1984.
After their charmed campaigns in 1999, Mr. Bradley and Mr. McCain are certain to face tougher scrutiny in coming weeks from their opponents and from the news media. And a loss in New Hampshire could be devastating to either politician, not only because of expectations but because their opponents have established "firewalls" with potent organizations in several of the subsequent primary states.
But the Bradley and McCain camps contend that if they win New Hampshire, the excitement and momentum after those triumphs would allow them to trump the institutional advantages of Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore. After New Hampshire, Republicans have showdowns in South Carolina on Feb. 19 and Arizona and Michigan on Feb. 22 before the multistate voting on March 7. But the Democrats will have a five-week breather between New Hampshire and the March 7 contests.
Former Senator Warren B. Rudman of New Hampshire, who backs Mr. McCain, said his candidate and Mr. Bradley are poised to do well with independent voters in his state. And victories there, he said, could make them unstoppable.
"I can't remember when you had it on both sides like this," Mr. Rudman said. "Bradley and McCain are both going to take huge chunks of independent voters." Arguing that Mr. McCain has far more potential than prevailing in New Hampshire, he added, "People are whistling through the cemetery if they think that's going to be the end of it."
The state of the race is far less settled than on the eve of the primaries four years ago, when President Clinton faced no opposition and Bob Dole towered over the field. Mr. Dole was bruised and battered more than he expected, but still managed to crush his rivals.
Notwithstanding the emergence of Mr. McCain, the most striking aspect of the 2000 campaign has been Mr. Bush's success. Though he was twice elected governor of Texas, Mr. Bush had no national political seasoning and popped up virtually out of nowhere to amass a staggering, record-breaking war chest of more than $67 million. He captured the early support of far more Republican members of Congress, governors and conservative leaders than Mr. Dole did at this point in the 1996 race.
And his political might forced half the Republican field out of the race, including former Vice President Dan Quayle, Elizabeth Dole, Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio and former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee. The only others left standing are Mr. McCain, Mr. Forbes, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, Alan Keyes, a former State Department official, and Gary Bauer, the former head of the Family Research Council.
The outpouring for the Texas governor has offended some Republicans who think it appears that he is being crowned. Craig Grimes, a foreman for a power company in Youngstown, Ohio, who responded to a New York Times/CBS News Poll, said he was taken aback by how Rush Limbaugh and Republican luminaries defend Mr. Bush.
"It's like a football game and they're all running ahead and clearing the way, running interference and blocking for Bush," said Mr. Grimes. "They've poured the money into him. And it scares me because he's going to owe big time whoever it is who is pushing him."
The challenge, now, for Mr. Bush is to meet the high expectations he helped create by actually winning some elections. He also needs to overcome an image from debates that he is not as versed in the issues or as nimble on his feet as some Republicans had hoped. And while Republicans enjoy a tradition of nominating their front-runner, Mr. Bush has less national campaign experience than any Republican nominee since Dwight D. Eisenhower, who was elected president in 1952.
Mr. Gore had a far rockier year than Mr. Bush. That was especially apparent because he was confronted only by one rival and had expected to glide to the nomination unimpeded. Instead, Mr. Bradley showed such political potency last year that he forced the vice president to practically reinvent his campaign and shed many trappings of incumbency.
"Had Gore not altered the terrain in September, he'd be gone by now," said Senator Joseph R. Biden, a Delaware Democrat who has not endorsed either candidate. "He was on such a slide through the summer. But he's righted the ship."
The two Democrats seem to agree on the leading issues -- health care, education, Social Security and campaign finance reform -- but they have argued vehemently over the details. The Republicans, by contrast, have been wrangling over a different set of issues, namely tax cuts, foreign policy and social issues like abortion.
Yet perhaps because no one burning issue has seemed to have grabbed the electorate, the candidates are devoting much time to talking about themselves as human beings, from their upbringings to their decisions to enter politics. They are also trying, perhaps, to set themselves on a higher moral plane than Mr. Clinton.
"I can't name issues that excite the public so we have to create issues, like health care," said Gerald H. Gamm, chairman of the political science department at the University of Rochester. "When the economy is in the midst of its most robust economic expansion in most of our lifetimes, when the nation, economically, is on top of the world, voters aren't paying attention to issues. So what is new now is that candidates are being aggressive in marketing their private lives."
But the biggest concern of the party chairmen is not the choice of issues, but the amount of time candidates will have to discuss them.
"This is a crazy way to determine the nominees of the parties because there's really no time for almost anyone to have a cogent debate," said Mr. Rendell, the Democratic chairman. "It just lends itself to those god-awful 30-second ads."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2000, Wednesday
PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Sunday listing events in the presidential primary season misstated the timetable for Democrats in Delaware and Washington State to select delegates to the party's national convention. While Delaware has a nonbinding primary on Feb. 5, it will select delegates in caucuses on March 27. And while Washington has a nonbinding primary on Feb. 29, it will select delegates in caucuses on March 7.
A chart on Jan. 2 listing events in the presidential primary season misstated the location of Democratic and Republican debates to be held on Jan. 26. It is New Hampshire, not Iowa.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Candidates in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, at a debate in Des Moines in December, from left, Steve Forbes, Alan Keyes, Gov. George W. Bush, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Senator John McCain and Gary L. Bauer. (Associated Press); Former Senator Bill Bradley, left, and Vice President Al Gore, at a town meeting in Hanover, N.H., in October, are in an increasingly tight race in the state's Democratic primary. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "Political Schedule 2000"
The first three months of the presidential primary season will be especially competitive because several states have moved up their primary dates. Where the primaries, caucuses and state party conventions will be held and the number of Democratic (D) and Republican (R) delegates at stake in each event:
 
January
5) DEMOCRATIC DEBATE -- New Hampshire
6) REPUBLICAN DEBATE -- New Hampshire
7) REPUBLICAN DEBATE -- South Carolina
8) DEMOCRATIC DEBATE -- Iowa
15) REPUBLICAN DEBATE -- Iowa
17) DEMOCRATIC DEBATE -- Iowa
24) Iowa (D 47; R 25) -- The Iowa caucuses are important because they mark the first contest where people actually vote. Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore are well ahead in the polls there, but Iowa surveys can be tricky because the byzantine caucus process makes it hard to predict who will participate. Steve Forbes is campaigning particularly aggressively in Iowa and hopes to score an upset. Senator John McCain is not taking part in the caucuses. But if he manages to pull a surprise and win a respectable tally anyway, that could give him momentum going into New Hampshire.
26) DEMOCRATIC AND REPUBLICAN DEBATES -- Iowa
 
ABOUT DELEGATE SELECTION -- The delegate selection process varies between the two parties and from state to state. Democratic delegate counts shown here reflect pledged delegates only, which are allotted proportionally in each state based on the primary or caucus vote. Pledged delegates account for 82 percent of the delegates to the 2000 Democratic convention.
 
February
 
1) New Hampshire (D 22; R 17) -- This is the all-critical first primary, something of a national primary because there is so much attention focused on it. Polls show that Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain are neck and neck, as are Mr. Bradley and Mr. Gore. Mr. Bradley and Mr. McCain are counting on victories here for momentum to carry them to the nomination. If they lose, they are in trouble.
5) Delaware (D 15)
8) Delaware (R 12)
19) South Carolina (R 37) -- This is the first contest in the South and Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain are campaigning there very aggressively. Mr. McCain is hoping to convert a victory in New Hampshire to another win in South Carolina, though polls there show that for now Mr. Bush is well ahead.
22) Arizona (R 30); Michigan (R 58) -- Polls show that Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain are locked in a tight battle in Mr. McCain's home state, where the Republican governor has endorsed Mr. Bush. The Bush camp hopes to win, and humiliate Mr. McCain on his home turf.
29) North Dakota (R 19) ; Virginia (R 55); Washington (R 37; D 75)
 
March
 
7) California (D 367; R 162); Connecticut (D 54; R 25); Georgia (D 77; R 54)
Hawaii (D 22); Maine (D 23; R 14); Maryland (D 68; R 31); Massachusetts (D 93; R 37); Minnesota (D 74; R 34); Missouri (D 75; R 35); New York (D 243; R 101); Ohio (D 146; R 69); Rhode Island (D 22; R 14); Vermont (D 15; R 12)
 
These are the biggest electoral prizes. The nominees of the parties may well be clear after this date, unless the victories are fractured, with one candidate, for instance, winning California and the other triumphing in New York. California is the biggest prize of all, but for the Democrats the New York race could be particularly hard fought if Mr. Gore or Mr. Bradley have not prevailed at this point.
 
9) South Carolina (D 43)
10) Colorado (D 51; R 40); Utah (D 24; R 29); Wyoming (R 22)
11) Arizona (D 47); Michigan (D 129)
14) Florida (D 161; R 80); Louisiana (D 61; R 28); Mississippi (D 37; R 33); Oklahoma (D 45; R 38); Tennessee (D 68; R 37); Texas (D 194; R 124)
After these contests, the nominees should be clear.
 
21) Illinois (D 161; R 74)
25) Wyoming (D 13); Louisiana (D 61)
 
(Sources: National Journal, Federal Election Commission, Democratic National Committee, Republican National Committee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PRIMARY ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); FUNDRAISING (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); AL GORE (90%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); ED RENDELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



69 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 6320 words

HEADLINE: Lives Lived Well And the Lessons That They Teach

 BODY:
THEY never made the cover of People magazine. Sometimes they did not even make headlines in their community's weekly newspaper. But they made a difference in the way they lived. And they made a difference in Westchester, where they lived.
 Some were young, just in their 40's. Others had 90 or more years to make their mark. Some of their accomplishments were very public. Others were very private. Many were teachers at heart, even if they never set foot in a classroom or made a formal lesson plan.
 
 They had this in common: though their lives ended in 1999, their legacies endure: landscapes reshaped both physically and politically, doors opening for racial minorities or the arts promoted with passionate devotion.
 Here is a collection of vignettes, all written by Kate Stone Lombardi, about people whose deaths did, indeed, diminish Westchester. But, more importantly, they are stories of people whose lives continue to enrich the communities where they lived and the people they lived with -- both those who knew them well and those who will be making their acquaintance here for the first time.
 
WRITING HIMSELF INTO LEGAL HISTORY
 IT remains the largest mass murder trial in Westchester's history, and one of the county's most dramatic legal moments. Four days after a jury convicted a waiter of setting the fire that killed 26 people at the Stouffer's Inn in Harrison in December 1980, Judge Lawrence N. Martin set aside the verdict, freeing the man who stood trial.
 Judge Martin said the prosecutor had not proved his case and had persuaded the jury by "trying to twist and turn the pieces of the puzzle to fit the picture he had painted." There were gasps in the packed courtroom, and the district attorney who had prosecuted the case, Carl A. Vergari, called Judge Martin's decision "a grave perversion of justice." The case was appealed, but New York's highest court upheld Judge Martin's ruling.
 The decision was entirely in keeping with Judge Martin's character, his widow, Carmen Martin, said. "He had no doubts whatsoever," she said. "He never cowered, and he was never concerned about the political ramifications. He came home directly from court after the verdict was announced and sat down at the kitchen table, took out a yellow pad and started writing. It just flowed, and there wasn't even a second draft."
At the time, Judge Martin's decision in the high profile case took a toll on his family. For months they received hate mail and threats.
 Luis Marin, the man Judge Martin freed, surprised Mrs. Martin by coming to her husband's funeral. She said that Mr. Marin told her he had always been grateful to Judge Martin for giving him a second chance.
 "I recognized him immediately," Mrs. Martin said. "He came over and shook my hand and expressed his condolences. Larry always felt good about his decision in the case. He never lost any sleep over it."
 Though he is most remembered for presiding over the Stouffer's trial, Judge Martin had a varied career. A lifelong Democrat, he headed the White Plains Youth for Kennedy-Johnson, which garnered him an invitation to President Kennedy's inauguration. Lawrence Martin missed it though -- he stayed home instead to study for his bar exam. He was admitted to the bar in 1961 and worked as a trial lawyer, judge and judicial consultant for more than 35 years.
 Mr. Martin worked as a lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Manhattan District Attorney's Office, the Westchester District Attorney's Office and the Legal Aid Society of Westchester. In 1975, at the age of 37, he became the first Democrat to be elected a Westchester County judge in 41 years. As a County Court judge, he presided over more than 200 trials. He was later appointed to the state Supreme Court.
 After he left the bench in 1986, Judge Martin was appointed by Andrew O'Rourke, who was then county executive, to investigate a multimillion-dollar garbage hauling contract between Westchester County government and a private garbage company. Again, he did not hesitate to take a politically unpopular stance. The Martin report argued that the garbage hauling contract was in violation of the law because it had been rewritten without seeking bids from other companies. Last year, when the Westchester Board of Legislators decided to establish a solid waste commission with broad powers over the private garbage hauling industry, Judge Martin's report was among the research that influenced the decision.
 Judge Martin was known for never raising his voice in court. Those in the know, however, could tell if the judge was angry by monitoring the color of his ears -- the redder they got, the angrier he was.
 Judge Martin loved dogs and bred and trained them. He began with St. Bernards and then moved on to golden retrievers. "He always said that dog was God spelled backward," Mrs. Martin said.
 After he closed his practice in White Plains in 1996, the Martins moved to Nantucket so that Judge Martin could be near his other love -- the water. "If he could see the ocean, he was happy," Mrs. Martin said.
 Lawrence Martin died Nov. 29 at the age of 63.
 
CARING FOR THE CHILDREN
 FOR more than 60 years, Virginia Wise Marx devoted herself to the care and education of children. An educator, psychologist and philanthropist, Mrs. Marx was most recently known for helping to establish a day-care center at Westchester Community College in Valhalla.
 "If it weren't for the children's center, quite a few of our students wouldn't be able to go on to college," Dr. Joseph N. Hankin, president of the Westchester Community College, said at the dedication of the center, which is named for Mrs. Marx. "They wouldn't be able to get marketable skills and go on to good jobs. Those who are on welfare wouldn't be able to get off."
The center, which opened in 1996, now serves nearly 100 children. It not only helps student parents but is also used as a laboratory for students studying nursing, early childhood development and food service.
 Mrs. Marx also helped start the Child Development Institute at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, by creating a challenge grant endowment. She worked to create a center at Teachers College at Columbia University, for training educators in child care. She and her husband, a real estate developer, endowed the Virginia and Leonard Marx Professorship in Child and Parent Development and Education at Teachers College in 1993, as well as a lecture series there. The couple had three children.
 With the Westchester Children's Association, Mrs. Marx worked to start remedial reading programs in five school districts. For many years she was a board member of the Scarsdale Family Counseling Service, a trustee of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services and a chairwoman of its Child Development Center. She was also involved with the U.J.A.-Federation of New York, the White Plains Hospital Center and the Scarsdale Edgemont Family Counseling Service.
 She received numerous awards, among them the Scarsdale Family Counseling Service Open Door Volunteer Award and, with her husband Leonard, the Humanitarian Award from the Mental Health Association of Westchester. The Foundation for Westchester Community College gave her the Medallion Award for Leadership in Civic Affairs and she was given the Centennial Award by Teachers College at Columbia University.
 Mrs. Marx graduated with a degree in psychology from Washington University, and then received a master's in social work. She also earned a master's in child psychology at Teacher's College and spent a fellowship year in clinical psychology at what was then known as the Child Guidance Institute. Before her marriage she worked for Macy's, designing children's toys. Mrs. Marx also was a contributing editor to Parents Magazine and wrote an advice column about development.
 An elegant woman known for her exquisite taste, Mrs. Marx pursued her interest in 19th-century American furniture by supporting the American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the friends of American Art at Yale University and the Art Museum of Sarah Lawrence College.
 Virginia Marx died May 23. She was 93.
 
THE DESEGREGATOR
 LLOYD KING was a quiet man and an effective man. The first black ever to serve as Westchester's election commissioner, Mr. King was also integral in the efforts to desegregate Mount Vernon's schools.
 His civil rights activism in Westchester began in the 1960's, when Mr. King was president of the Mount Vernon chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. He filed a lawsuit in 1964 on behalf of his son Jeffrey, who was then a 5-year-old kindergartner. After years of litigation and local tension, the state ordered the schools integrated, and the district instituted an open-enrollment plan. Under the new system, students from the predominantly black South Side of Mount Vernon were allowed to attend North Side schools when space was available.
 "Lloyd was a trail blazer," said M. Paul Redd, who worked with Mr. King at the Westchester-Putnam Affirmative Action Program, which Mr. Redd heads. "Using his own kid as a test case, he spearheaded that lawsuit."
 Not only did he take on the schools in the 1960's but Mr. King, with his wife, Barbara, also organized boycotts of local white-owned stores. The Kings moved to Larchmont in 1974, in part because they were still dissatisfied with the quality of education their children, Jeffrey and Todd, were receiving in Mount Vernon, and also to distance their sons from the racial tension still present there. Mr. King then became the first black elected to the Mamaroneck Board of Education, serving from 1975 to 1978.
 Before he worked for the county as elections commissioner, Mr. King was an investigations supervisor in the Internal Revenue Service, an executive vice president of the Interracial Council for Business Opportunities in New York City and vice president of the Westchester-Putnam Affirmative Action Program.
 After serving in the Army in World War II, Mr. King graduated with a degree in political science and French literature from New York University in 1950 and from Brooklyn Law School in 1956.
 "He was a very quiet kind of person, very smart and very effective," Mr. Redd said. "He was thorough and methodic, and he got things done."
 Lloyd King died Nov. 23. He was 72.
 
THE GREAT OUTDOORS
 NICHOLAS SHOUMATOFF was a nature enthusiast whose passion for the outdoors led him to the hills of Jamaica, the mountains of Central Asia and the woods of northern Westchester.
 As a teenager, Mr. Shoumatoff spent his summers in Jamaica, studying butterflies with his uncle, Andrei Avinoff, director of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh. Together they discovered a new subspecies, a small iridescent blue butterfly with what looked like a curved hair at the bottom of its wings. The species -- Shoumatoff hairstreak -- was named for him.
 Mr. Shoumatoff also had a passion for mountain climbing. Toting his camera, he climbed the Alps, the Rockies, the Caucasus and the Pamirs of Central Asia, along the way taking thousands of photographs of flora and fauna. Mr. Shoumatoff published two books that included his expedition pictures.
 A longtime Bedford resident, he had a degree in engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and worked for years in the pulp and paper industry. He was director of special projects for ITT Rayonier Inc., vice president with Parsons and Whittemore, and a manager of manufacturing services at West Virginia Pulp and Paper. He was responsible for building pulp and paper mills in Eastern Europe, Asia, and South America. Mr. Shoumatoff, who holds two patents in paper making, was one of the first United States businessmen to sign major industrial contracts with countries behind the Iron Curtain during the Cold War.
 Mr. Shoumatoff lectured at the Explorer's Club and the American Alpine Club, but he also frequently spoke locally. He was the president of the Bedford Audubon Society and the Westmoreland Sanctuary. He was also a trustee of the Bedford Free Library and a vestryman at St. Matthew's Episcopal Church in Bedford.
 Mr. Shoumatoff served as curator of the trailside museum at Ward Pound Ridge Reservation in Cross River, where he often conducted nature programs. An expert on American Indians, he gave a popular lecture on what he called the "myths" that had developed about Pilgrims and Thanksgiving. He argued that the occasion was not solemn but somewhat rowdy and that turkey was almost certainly not on the original menu.
 "Wild turkeys are not easy to gun down," he told visitors to the museum at one lecture. "They are elusive and wily. Those early settlers had only soldiers' muskets, which were far from being accurate. The chances are that the fowl that graced that first table were Canada geese. They were plentiful and not nearly as difficult to bag."
 Nicholas Shoumatoff died Sept. 13. He was 81.
 
THE MASTER BUILDER
 MICHAEL FORSTL left his legacy on the landscape, designing dozens of buildings in Westchester and Manhattan.
 Mr. Forstl worked for 18 years with the architect Philip Johnson. Together they designed many projects, including the New York State Pavilion at the 1963 World's Fair in Queens, the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center and the Tisch School of Commerce at New York University.
 After leaving Johnson Associates, Mr. Forstl started his own firm. The work he was most proud of from this period was at the Institute of Fine Arts in Manhattan, where he redesigned the conservation department, his widow, Katherina, said. His designs there led to a similar job at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 Mr. Forstl worked for a Valhalla firm, Lathrop Associates, from 1993 to 1998. There, he helped design the terminal and parking garage at the Westchester County Airport and also the Flanzer Pavilion at White Plains Hospital Center. Mr. Forstl also designed the Tyler Graphics building in Mount Kisco.
 The architect was in demand until the end of his life and only retired when forced to by illness, his wife said. The Forstls lived in Chappaqua for 33 years in a house that Mr. Forstl designed.
 "He loved everything about being an architect," Mrs. Forstl said. "He was always very happy with the things he did. It was his whole life."
 Michael Forstl died May 1. He was 68.
 
REDEFINING POLITICAL BOUNDARIES
 RHODA QUASH, the first black woman on the New Rochelle City Council, was instrumental in creating the district she later represented. Ms. Quash, a Democrat, was a leader in organizing the vote in 1993 that abolished an at-large system of electing city council members and in its place created six districts in the city. She was then elected to the newly created District 3, which ran through the middle of the city and had a 70 percent black majority.
 When businesses like the Home Depot and the New Roc City came to New Rochelle, Ms. Quash personally lobbied contractors to hire blacks. She led a successful effort to rename Brook Street for Malcolm X. She also started a youth employment program that placed more than 100 local teenagers in jobs.
 "She was a real fighter, even far more than the black community understood," said M. Paul Redd, head of the Westchester-Putnam Affirmative Action Program. "She worked behind the scenes at business meetings for opportunities for minorities and women."
 Ms. Quash, who was married to Tom Quash and had one son, worked as director of government affairs at the Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle. She also helped run the Sunday School at St. Catherine A.M.E. Zion Church, where she was a member. She was an executive board member of the N.A.A.C.P. She had also previously served on the city Planning Board and had headed the Westchester Black Women's Political Caucus.
 For many years, Ms. Quash worked as a flight attendant for TWA before becoming the airline's first black corporate manager.
 Rhoda Quash died May 18. She was 53.
 
RENAISSANCE MAN
 CHARLES TRINKAUS, a longtime history professor at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, was a leading scholar of the Renaissance. He began teaching at the college in 1936 and continued until 1970, imbuing his work with his own great devotion to the humanities and his passion for careful scholarship.
 "Charles's great love was the Renaissance for its poetic inspiration and for affirming the human personality to its fullest," said Dr. Elfie S. Raymond, a professor of Classical Philosophy at Sarah Lawrence College. "One of his main aims in teaching was to make people into careful, sensitive scholars who would see with a double vision -- who would see details with precision, but also how they fit into the larger context of culture."
 John O'Malley, president of the Renaissance Society of America, said Mr. Trinkaus was among the few American scholars who, in the 1940's and 50's, "opened the Renaissance to Americans and launched a wonderful flowering of Renaissance historical scholarship in North America."
 Mr. Trinkaus's doctoral dissertation, "Adversity's Noblemen: The Italian Humanists on Happiness," became his first book and was noted for its innovative view of Renaissance humanism. He also wrote a two-volume work, "In Our Image and Likeness: Humanity and Divinity in Italian Humanist Thought" and "The Collected Works of Erasmus: Controversies." All were published by the University of Toronto Press.
 Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Trinkaus received his bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University and his Ph.D. in history from Columbia University. He began teaching at Sarah Lawrence even before he completed his dissertation. He was devoted to small seminars and one-on-one student-faculty conference. "He was really the spirit of the college," Dr. Raymond said. "He was a great teacher who gave enormous vitality to the humanities."
 Mr. Trinkaus also taught at the University of Michigan for 12 years, returning to Sarah Lawrence in 1991 to teach a course, "Man and Cosmos, Ancient, Renaissance and Modern."
 Charles Trinkaus died Sept. 15. He was 87.
 
STAR BEHIND THE SCREEN
 PHILIP H. REISMAN JR.'s career as a screen writer was so eclectic that his honors ranged from five Academy Awards to the Golden Tomahawk Award presented by the Westchester Historical Society. The longtime Larchmont resident was best known for his documentary films, but his versatility allowed him to write for movie newsreels and live television, as well as producing movie screenplays and dramas for commercial and public television.
 Mr. Reisman was best known for "All the Way Home," a 1963 film adaptation of the theatrical version of James Agee's novel, "A Death in the Family," which starred Robert Preston and Jean Simmons. He also wrote documentary films like "The Real West" (1961), which featured Gary Cooper, and "The End of the Trail" (1965) with Walter Brennan.
 It was his script for "The Adams Chronicles" and "Sandburg's Lincoln" that captured the attention of the Historical Society. Other awards included an Edgar from the Mystery Writers of America and the Peabody Award. Mr. Reisman was active in the county.
 Mr. Reisman was active in the county, serving as a member of the town of Mamaroneck Auxiliary Police and as a leader in the Boy Scouts. He was a trustee of the Larchmont Historical Society and often delivered talks locally on the subject of the culture and history of the America Indian.
 Mr. Reisman grew up in New Rochelle. After attending Brown University, he went to work at RKO Pathe News, where he wrote one and two-reel documentary short subjects. During World War II he served in the Marines as a photographer. He returned to RKO Pathe after the war, but in 1952 he decided to write on a freelance basis.
 Philip Reisman died June 2. He was 82.
 
EVERYTHING WAS 'WUNDERBAR'
 THE Paramount Center for the Arts in Peekskill lost its guardian angel when it lost Else Lampmann-Alberti. A devoted patron of the center, Ms. Lampmann-Alberti raised money for a new piano for the theater, for new dressing rooms and for new gallery space. Her 90th birthday was celebrated in that gallery, and -- as had been her tradition -- she asked friends to celebrate by donating to the center instead of giving her a gift.
 A singer and piano player, Ms. Lampmann-Alberti ran music studios in Peekskill and Manhattan. She taught voice until she was 90 and was sometimes brought to tears by her students, so beautiful did she find the music and the voices. Ms. Lampmann-Alberti herself toured Europe as a singer, performing most frequently in her native Germany.
 Mrs. Lampmann-Alberti often set up camp in the lobby of the Paramount. She would bring her own lamp from home, and settle in to collect funds for an event, often charming visitors into signing the guest book. "She was always thinking of new ways to find funds to keep the Paramount going," said Gladys Muller, board president of the Paramount. "She had the stamina of a very young woman and never stopped. With Else, everything was 'wunderbar.' "
 She was also a charter member of the Aaron Copland Heritage Association and gave yearly concerts to benefit the Hudson Valley Hospital. In 1992, Vincent Vesce, who was then mayor, declared "Else Lampmann Day" in Peekskill.
 Else Lampmann-Alberti died Jan. 31. She was 90.
 
A LATE-BLOOMING AUTHOR
 AT the age of 107, she published her third book. But it was the publication of "Having Our Say: The Delany Sisters' First 100 Years," in 1993 that thrust Sarah (Sadie) Delany and her sister Elizabeth (Bessie) into the national limelight. The beguiling oral history traced the sisters' lives as the daughters of a man born a slave, through their days in the Jim Crow South to their nearly four decades in Mount Vernon. The book was on the New York Times best-seller list for 28 weeks and on the paperback list for 77 weeks.
 Sadie Delany was born in 1889 in her aunt's home in Lynch's Station, Va. She grew up on the campus of St. Augustine's School in Raleigh, where her father was vice principal. The sisters approached life in the segregated South differently. Bessie Delany was more confrontational. Sadie Delany preferred an indirect approach to circumventing racist laws. "Sadie is molasses without even trying," Bessie Delany told Amy Hill Hearth, the co-author of their book. "She can sweet-talk the world or play dumb, or whatever it takes to get by without a fuss."
 It was a strategy Sadie Delany used to become the first black woman to teach home economics in white New York City schools. After receiving a master's degree in education from Columbia University in 1925 and several years of teaching at predominantly black schools, Miss Delany applied to teach at a white high school. When she received a letter from the Board of Education asking to meet her, she skipped the appointment, later writing a polite letter apologizing for the "mix-up." On the first day of class, she simply showed up for work at the school.
 "They just about died when they saw me," she wrote in her memoir. "A colored woman!"
 She kept the job, and continued to teach at well-respected high schools -- among them Girls' High School in Brooklyn, Evander Childs High School in the Bronx and Washington Irving High School in Manhattan -- until she retired in 1960.
 The sisters lived together in Mount Vernon from 1957 to 1995, and Sadie Delany remained there after her sister Bessie died in 1995 at 104. In her book, "On My Own at 107: Reflections on a Life Without Bessie," Sadie Delany wrote: "I sure miss you, Old Gal. This being alone is hard. For the first time in my life, I don't have you by my side. I'm 107 years old now, and it's like I'm just learning how to walk."
 Sarah Delany died Jan. 25. She was 109.
 
 A POLITICIAN WHO STOOD FIRM
 NO one ever had to wonder where Tony Veteran stood on an issue. Straightforward, decisive and outspoken, Mr. Veteran served for 18 years as supervisor of the town of Greenburgh. He led Westchester's largest town through contentious and changing times, never faltering in his vision of what he believed to be right.
 By far the most divisive political issue that faced Greenburgh during Mr. Veteran's tenure was the opening in town of West-HELP, a transitional housing center for the homeless. Opposition to the placement of the shelter was so passionate that at one point people who lived near the proposed site threatened to secede from the town in hopes of blocking it. Meetings on the subject were vitriolic.
 "I have never heard such rhetoric," said Susan Tolchin, who was town clerk during Mr. Veteran's administration. "Tony would listen to the opponents yell and scream about how it would ruin the town, but he was confident it was the right site, and he made it happen. Tony stood up for what he believed was right no matter what hits he had to take."
 After three years of protest and lawsuits, the shelter -- 108 units on 30 acres of county-owned land in a wooded area near Westchester Community College -- opened in 1991. Concessions to neighboring homeowners included barbed-wire fencing around the housing, round-the-clock security and a guarantee that only families with preschool children would live there, so local schools would not be burdened.
 "Tony was a shrewd politician," said his wife, Lucy. "Politicians have a bad name and are sometimes called wheeler dealers, but Tony felt there was nothing wrong with that, as long as you were wheeling and dealing for your constituents. And he was."
 Mr. Veteran also helped open up the formerly restricted St. Andrews Golf Course. Developers needed town approval to build town houses on the property, and Mr. Veteran withheld approval until they promised to open admission to the club to anyone who bought a home there. The developers were unhappy with the condition but ultimately agreed to it. The first home buyer in the development was Jewish, and he joined the club.
 "Tony felt that you had to lead even if people didn't like what you were doing," said Mrs. Veteran. "He did what he thought was right for his constituents. He felt if they didn't agree with him, they could throw him out of office."
 Clearly, Greenburgh voters wanted him to stay. Mr. Veteran was elected a trustee of Tarrytown in 1959 and later became village mayor. He was elected Greenburgh supervisor in 1973 and was re-elected to nine two-year terms. He was the first Democrat to be elected supervisor, and he transformed the formerly Republican town into a Democratic stronghold.
 A shrewd politician with an explosive personality, he was a man of action who was impatient with indecisiveness. Yet he could be a conciliator between opposing political parties and was respected by both his supporters and foes. "He had a lot of guts," said John Lombardi, a Republican and the longtime supervisor of North Castle. "He told you like it was and never held anything back. He was probably one of the most colorful, strongest and most powerful supervisors in the county."
 Mr. Veteran also had a gentle side. He was a mentor to those who worked for him and enjoyed teaching the ins and outs of politics and government. He liked working with children and coached football and wrestling at Elmsford High School. He encouraged dozens of young men to continue their educations, and many of them stayed in touch with Mr. Veteran long after they had established their own careers.
 "Tony was really a giant," said Ms. Tolchin, who is now director of communications for County Executive Andrew J. Spano. "He used to say: 'You are not elected to abstain or to pass the buck. You are elected to take a position. You make the right decision and you stick with it.' "
 Tony Veteran died Jan. 16. He was 82.
 
 BLAZING TRAILS, MEDICAL AND OTHERWISE
 DR. BENJAMIN I. DYETT was a family doctor and a professional pioneer. His resume is full of firsts -- ranging from the first black doctor to join the staff of two Westchester hospitals, to the first black father to move his family into what was then all-white Prospect Park in White Plains.
 Dr. Dyett took great pride in his trail blazing, though it was sometimes at a price. His daughter, Dr. Deborah Desir, said her father once went to a uniform store in Westchester to buy white medical coats. When he arrived, Dr. Dyett was asked if he was there to buy a butler's uniform. While he served in the Navy and was commissioned as a lieutenant commander on the basis of his being a doctor, some white soldiers on board the ship refused to salute him.
 But Dr. Dyett was too busy and too easygoing to let such incidents wear him down, said Betty Dyett, his widow. "He would say, 'Well, that's your problem, not mine.' "
 He was devoted to his patients and they to him. Mrs. Dyett said she was still stopped on the streets and thanked by people her husband had treated. "He had people who went to him from the time he opened his practice to when he closed it, and they would not consider going to anyone else," Dr. Desir said.
 Dr. Dyett graduated from medical school at Howard University in Washington in 1954 and started his internship at Grasslands Hospital in Valhalla, which is now known as the Westchester Medical Center. He joined the staff of the White Plains Hospital as an assistant attending physician in 1957. He also served on the staff of St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains. Dr. Dyett was the medical director of Sing Sing Correctional Facility in Ossining during the 1980's, a time when the prison population saw a sharp rise in AIDS cases. He also ran his family practice for 39 years.
 While being a doctor came first to Dr. Dyett, other important things in his life were his family, his church and his college fraternity, Alpha Phi Alpha. He was a member of the Grace Episcopal Church Senior Choir for more than 30 years, where he was known both as a strong tenor and something of a joker, said Ray Levine, who stood next to him in the choir.
 He was also a member of the Westchester County Medical Society, the White Plains Lions Club, the Westchester County African-American Advisory Board and a Fellow, and past treasurer, vice president and president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. In 1997, Dr. Dyett received the county's Certificate of Distinguished Service.
 Dr. Dyett loved to travel with his family, taking cruises, visiting historic sites and, most of all, spending time at Cape Cod, where the family eventually bought a second home. But vacation time came rarely, as Dr. Dyett seldom took time away from his patients. "He was really a very busy person, and the things he loved most -- his practice, his church, his fraternity and his family -- were his life," Mrs. Dyett said. "He had not much time for anything else."
 Dr. Benjamin Dyett died on March 13. He was 72.
 
THE FIRST LADY OF CIVICS
 LEGISLATORS -- and a few county executives -- sometimes feared her. Younger women training to become advocates revered her. But everyone who worked with Martha Sloan Greenawalt, known as Westchester's first lady of civics, respected her.
 Mrs. Greenawalt's volunteer activities on a local, state and national level led her to be named a civic leader in "Who's Who in the World." Among many other positions, she served for six years on the League of Women Voters' national board and for two terms as president of the New York State League of Women Voters, and she was coordinator of the Westchester Coalition for the Equal Rights Amendment.
 In addition, she was head of Greenburgh's Urban Renewal Commission and served for 17 years as a board member of the town's Neighborhood Health Center. She was vice chairwoman of Westchester 2000 and co-chairwoman of the Westchester Alliance on Juvenile and Criminal Justice.
 When Mrs. Greenawalt was chosen as the first inductee into the Westchester Women's Hall of Fame in 1985, she seemed the only one surprised. "I'm astonished," she said, accepting the award. "I've done such a crazy quilt of things; I've loved it all, but I've moved from one thing to another with no real sense of direction."
 Her admirers -- and she had legions -- said Mrs. Greenawalt's activities were in fact united by one driving force: a commitment to fairness. "Whether it was women, housing, discrimination, minorities -- her work was all related to equality," said Camille F. Murphy, director of the county's Office for Women.
 Mrs. Greenawalt, who was born in 1906, remembered her mother's being unable to vote. The 19th Amendment was ratified when Mrs. Greenawalt was a teenager. She graduated from Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa., in 1928 and then earned a master's degree in philosophy from Columbia University in 1929. She married Kenneth Greenawalt the following year; they had four children.
 Her volunteerism began in 1952, when she became chairwoman of the Westchester council of Women's College Clubs, and it expanded from there. What made her remarkable, said those who worked with her, was her high level of commitment to all her activities.
 "Martha's involvement in so many organizations was never peripheral or casual," said Evelyn Stock, president of the New York State League of Women Voters. "She served usually as the chair or co-chair. Sometimes she was the entire committee."
 In all of her activities, Mrs. Greenawalt never lost sight of the human factor. As a vice president of Westchester 2000, a citizen-led group to develop a master plan for the new millennium, she listened patiently as concerns about Westchester's roads, buildings and tax system were discussed. But it was she who led the task force on human services, with particular attention to the problems of poverty, welfare dependency and teenage pregnancy.
 Mrs. Stock said that Mrs. Greenawalt was a mentor to many women in Westchester. She encouraged them to become involved and then shepherded their careers, having an influence on county politics that extended far beyond her own volunteerism. As a tribute, the County Office of Woman, in conjunction with the Westchester County Advisory Board, has established the Martha Sloan Greenawalt mentoring program, in which local young women will be selected for leadership training.
 An unfailingly courteous woman known for her beaming smile, Mrs. Greenawalt had a booming, sonorous voice. Even as she got older, she never needed a microphone.
 Mrs. Greenawalt lived in Hartsdale on a cul de sac, among families that were at least a generation younger than she. But it was Mrs. Greenawalt who planted and weeded the flower beds in the circle of the street. She walked everywhere she could and also enjoyed swimming.
 "What made her so special was that she was an icon from another time but a leader in this time," Mrs. Stock said.
 Martha Sloan Greenawalt died on March 17. She was 92.
 
PUTTING FAIRNESS INTO DIVORCE
 DIANE WHITE of New Rochelle was volunteering for a self-help group in the late 1970's when she began to hear from women who had been thrust into poverty as a result of their marriages ending. In response, she founded Legal Awareness for Women, which sponsored seminars and offered counseling for women with divorce, child custody and domestic violence problems.
 The group soon became active in lobbying for the New York State Equitable Distribution Law, which was intended to distribute marital assets fairly at the time of divorce. Several years later, Ms. White lobbied for changes in the law, arguing that a loophole allowed the court to grant a spouse immediate divorce, leaving other issues -- including critical questions of financial maintenance, marital property, custody, visitation or child support -- for a trial at a much later date.
 As Ms. White grew older, she expanded the group's mission to include issues affecting the elderly, and it became known as Legal Awareness of Westchester. The group later became absorbed into Pace University's Women's Justice Center. At the age of 78 she held a series of seminars titled "Woman to Woman -- Living Alone and Getting Older."
 "I've worked all my life," she told an interviewer at the time. "I never intended to retire to a rocking chair."
 Diane White died March 3. She was 82.
 
REMEMBERING THE VETERAN
 MICHAEL C. MONGERO enlisted in the Navy at 17 and took part in the D-Day invasion in 1944 as a landing craft pilot. It was an experience that influenced the rest of his life, making him a dedicated advocate for local veterans.
 Mr. Mongero, who was a Cortlandt town councilman for 11 years, became the first chairman of the town's Veterans Council. For years, he lobbied New York State to build a nursing home for veterans on the grounds of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Veterans Hospital Center in Montrose. Construction on the project began last summer and is expected to be completed next year. He also led the effort to refurbish a local memorial dedicated to those who died in service to their country.
 A 40-year resident of Cortlandt, Mr. Mongero liked to reminisce about his days in the service. He would often tell a story about an unlikely meeting he had while he was in the Navy. Mr. Mongero was stationed on Omaha Beach when he passed a fenced-in compound where German prisoners were being held. Suddenly he heard one of the POW's call out his name. It was an old classmate from Yorktown High School, who had returned to his family's native Germany after graduation and had then been drafted into the German army.
 Town Supervisor Linda Puglisi of Cortlandt said that Mr. Mongero, a Republican who sat on the town board from 1977 to 1989, was devoted to his family and devoted to his town. She said he was an enthusiastic participant in the Memorial Day and Veterans Day parades, and tried to rally others to attend as well.
 Mike Mongero died July 26. He was 74.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarah Louise Delany, left, and Annie Elizabeth Delany in 1993. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Rhoda Quash; Dr. Benjamin I. Dyett; Martha Sloan Greenawalt; Judge Lawrence N. Martin Jr.; Anthony F. Veteran (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 7); Lloyd P. King Jr. (Alan Zale for The New York Times); Nicholas Shoumatoff (Mimi Forsyth for The New York Times); Charles Trinkaus; Virginia Marx (pg. 6)
 
Drawing (Santiago Cohen) (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VERDICTS (89%); JURY TRIALS (87%); EVIDENCE (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); JUDGES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); RACE & RACISM (69%); LAWYERS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE N MARTIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000



70 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: The Evil Empire

BYLINE: By Alan Ryan; Alan Ryan is a professor of politics at New College, Oxford.

 BODY:

THE BLACK BOOK
 OF COMMUNISM
 Crimes, Terror, Repression.
 By Stephane Courtois, Nicolas Werth,
 Jean-Louis Panne, Andrzej Paczkowski,
 Karel Bartosek and Jean-Louis Margolin.
 Illustrated. 856 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Harvard University Press. $37.50. 
 It is impossible to imagine any reader of "The Black Book of Communism" sitting down and plowing all the way through this 856-page catalog of the tortures, murders, deportations and deliberately created famines that Communist regimes have inflicted on their subjects during the past 80 years. There is a limit to the human appetite for descriptions of horrible death and hopeless misery. The authors of the several chapters that make up this grim compilation know this and do not wish it otherwise. Their aim is not to dramatize the sufferings of the victims of Communism, or to astonish their readers with new revelations. To the extent that the book has a literary style, it is that of the recording angel; this is the body count of a colossal, wholly failed social, economic, political and psychological experiment. It is a criminal indictment, and it rightly reads like one.
Nor is it the aim of "The Black Book of Communism" to engage in the quarrels over numbers that used to preoccupy Robert Conquest and his critics some 25 years ago. In a sense, the collapse of Communism almost everywhere, and its at least partial transformation in China, has made exactness irrelevant. The famine caused by the Great Leap Forward resulted in the deaths of anywhere from 25 to 40 million Chinese -- nobody has wholly reliable statistics, and there is room for legitimate disagreement about how to count the indirect effects of malnutrition and economic disruption. Given that the economic policies of the Great Leap Forward were utterly disastrous in their own right, they were not worth the sacrifice of one life. Given that they were persisted in with grotesque and extreme brutality long after their flaws were perfectly clear, who is going to suggest that the lower of two appalling death tolls makes any serious moral difference?
The purpose of "The Black Book of Communism" in its original form was highly specific. When the book was first published in France in 1997 (and became a best seller), it indicated the end of an epoch. Disillusioned social democrats had known since 1917, if not earlier, that the old cry of "no enemies on the left" was a recipe for disaster, that Communist parties all over the world had subverted their democratic allies whenever it suited them, and had murdered them in every country in which Communism had come to power. French intellectuals had, however, made it a point of honor to stare unflinchingly at the terrorism of successive Soviet regimes and announce that it was the price to be paid for the eventual liberation of the oppressed. Anything else was a concession to bourgeois humanitarianism. This book signified the end of that particular piece of nonsense.
Its editor, Stephane Courtois, the director of research at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique in Paris, might demur at the thought that even in France Communism is definitively extinct. He refers in passing to Mao's China and Kim Il Sung's North Korea as among the "Communist regimes currently in vogue in the West," but this is surely an error. Whatever anyone's doubts about the problems caused by the triumph of capitalism on the world stage, nobody suggests China or North Korea as answers to them. Courtois was, perhaps, puzzled by the fact that nobody had commemorated the collapse of the Soviet bloc and the evaporation of the Soviet Union itself by drawing up the kind of criminal accounting he wanted. The answer, surely, is not that anyone still wishes to defend Stalin, Mao or Kim Il Sung, but that nobody knows what more to say.
As Courtois points out, the observation that you can't make an omelet without broken eggs may be true, but it was long ago destroyed as a justification of the Soviet tyranny by the fact that we had all seen the broken eggs but nobody had ever seen the omelet. As he also notices, the decisive event both in awakening Western intellectuals to the horrors of Stalinism and in setting in train the destruction of the Soviet Union took place long ago. Khrushchev's "secret speech" to the 20th Party Congress in 1956 lifted the lid on the lies, murders and stupidities of Stalinist rule, and nothing was ever the same again.
The next 40 years saw the slow unraveling of the Soviet bloc, but the impact on Western Communist parties was instantaneous. The silence over the horrors of Communism that Courtois complains of is not the silence of people who are morally uncertain, as someone might be in trying to think whether the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki was a hideous act justified by its effectiveness in preventing very much worse things from happening. It is the silence of people who are simply baffled by the spectacle of so much absolutely futile, pointless and inexplicable suffering.
Courtois spends a good deal of his introduction worrying at a question that few Americans will hesitate to answer for him. In what sense can we describe whole governments as criminal? Narrowly construed, crimes are what particular states define as such, and if Stalin or Mao failed to criminalize the murderous behavior of their secret police, prison guards and militias, how can we call these acts crimes? Ever since the Nuremberg war crimes tribunal, Americans have known the answer: "crimes against humanity" are what the conscience of the ordinary, nondepraved human being recognizes as such. It is the answer that Courtois comes to as well. It is hard to know what other answer one might come to.
There are in the end two large and fascinating questions that the several contributors, along with Martin Malia -- an American historian of Russia and the Soviet Union and the author of a very useful foreword to this translation -- all settle on as decisive. The first indeed gives the book's last chapter its title: Why? This is a somewhat embarrassing question for West Europeans, particularly the British, whose occupation of North America, Australia and parts of Africa involved the near-extermination of their original inhabitants. But the striking difference with the Soviet case is that the Soviet leadership made war on its own people. This was not invasion and colonization but supposedly the work of the ordinary government of a country.
The short answer is that there is not one answer. The Russian penchant for rule by murder was centuries old by the time Stalin outdid all his predecessors in the sheer numbers he killed. A couple of years after the revolution, Gorky brooded unhappily on the curious Russian taste for inflicting death by the most painful and humiliating means -- and a decade later was proposing that the enemies of the people should be used for medical experiments. China had a violent and troubled history, but not the Russian culture of political murder. What is common to all Communist states, however, is the perversion of utopia.
The frame of mind that sees society as a sheet of blank paper on which the great leader is to paint the ideal city of the future has often been accompanied by a readiness to imagine that killing off opponents is a necessary first step. But what might be a passing fantasy in the mind even of Sir Thomas More, the author of "Utopia," became something that Lenin and Trotsky could begin to put into practice and Stalin turn into a settled policy.
Popular though this view is -- nicely summed up in Malia's claim that it takes great ideals to cause great crimes -- I have never been convinced by it. The tyrant's dilemma, explored by thinkers ever since Plato, explains all we need to have explained: each death a tyrant perpetrates gives more people reason to hate him and therefore creates more enemies he has to eliminate. Trotsky and Lenin would probably have understood this and stopped; Stalin was thought by Trotsky to be a paranoid maniac, and may well have been so by the end of his life. But even paranoids have enemies, particularly when everything they do gives so many people reason to hate them.
All of which brings one to the second great question. What of the relative immorality of Communism and Nazism? Both Malia and Courtois chew over this puzzle at some length; oddly, they do it as though it were not one of the standard subjects of debate back to the 1950's. The body count tips the scales against Communism. If wild utopian disregard for human life is the charge, there is little to choose between the practices of Nazism and Communism. But if the issue is the intrinsic evil of the entire project, it still seems no contest. Nazism was committed in principle to exterminating the Jews. So long as a shred of Marxist intelligence remained to Communist practice, it was not in itself an exterminationist project. Just how and why socialist aspirations came in practice to be so thoroughly betrayed will continue to preoccupy historians well into the next century. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (70%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FAMINE (89%); TERRORISM (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); DEPORTATION (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MALNUTRITION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: ROBERT CONQUEST (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000



71 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes the Patient Knows Best

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the editor of Reason magazine and author of "The Future and Its Enemies: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise and Progress."

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
The Internet's abun dance of information, goods, tastes and sources of authority -- creates unparalleled opportunities for individuals to get exactly what they want. But this plenitude threatens political and cultural authorities who believe in telling individuals what they can have rather than letting them choose for themselves. It was inevitable, therefore, that the growth of the Internet would lead to complaints that its diversity undermines media standards, traditional morality and political authority. It was inevitable that the Internet would face calls for censorship.
And it was equally inevitable that the Internet would clash with American pharmaceutical regulations. The United States government approaches patient choice in medication as Singapore does free speech: its pronouncements sound reasonable and tolerant until you threaten its prerogatives. 
 The Internet ethos of diversity and competition runs exactly counter to uniform, gatekeeper-oriented medical culture -- the technocratic philosophy of the "one best way" embodied in our pharmaceutical regulations. On the Net, medical information is abundant and pharmacies, domestic and foreign, operate on many different models.
Now President Clinton is calling for new laws to require pharmacy Web sites to get licenses from the Food and Drug Administration before they can go online. He also wants large new federal fines, up to $500,000 per sale, for selling prescription drugs "without a valid prescription." Determining what's "valid" would put the federal government in the business of regulating medical practice. To enforce these new rules, the administration would give the F.D.A. subpoena powers and $10 million in fiscal 2001.
The Clinton initiative would greatly expand federal control over cyberspace while nationalizing state-level pharmacy regulations and common law standards of medical care. High-profile, venture-capital-backed Internet pharmacies like Drugstore.com and PlanetRx.com support the initiative's general philosophy and goals but have expressed concern about whether new federal powers are necessary. They favor stricter enforcement of existing laws. These sites operate within traditional procedures, requiring a prescription from the patient's personal physician.
But other online pharmacies let customers fill out questionnaires about their health and get prescriptions from doctors without in-person exams.
These sites range from shadowy operations without known addresses to well-established brick-and-mortar businesses like the Pill Box, a five-store chain based in San Antonio. They tend to specialize in so-called lifestyle drugs like the anti-impotence treatment Viagra and the anti-baldness drug Propecia.
The Food and Drug Administration calls them rogue sites, and government officials claim they victimize customers. Janet Woodcock, director of the F.D.A.'s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, told a House committee in July: "A system of drug regulation was established in this country that has served us well. But even with this system in place, there are those who still try to sell unapproved or unsafe drug products, and the Internet provides them with new opportunities for reaching unsuspecting and vulnerable consumers and undermining established safeguards,"
Fraudulent operators exist, of course, but their products and practices are well covered by existing laws. The threat to the power of regulators comes from sites that benefit customers who don't feel well served by the established system. A significant number of Americans obviously prefer the privacy and convenience of a Web-based medical consultation to the invasiveness and hassle of a physician visit.
While they may go to the doctor for diagnosis and treatment of conventional illnesses, these consumers don't see their sex lives or baldness as requiring physical exams. Regulators also tend to idealize in-person exams, as though every doctor took a careful history and thoroughly examined a patient before prescribing any drug.
The White House claims that "in cyberspace, consumers have no way of telling whether an online pharmacy is a legitimate operation." This isn't true. Brand reputations, contact numbers and street addresses, and a pharmacy association certification program are all indicators that a business is sound.
The F.D.A. itself offers useful advice to help consumers evaluate pharmacy sites. The real issue is that not all consumers agree on what is "legitimate."
Internet pharmacies return to consumers the choice promised by supporters of the 1938 Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. That law established federal requirements for drug safety and labeling but exempted prescription medicines from the labeling rules.
The bill was sold as a way to help consumers make informed choices about their medications, not as a way to transfer those choices to physicians, drug makers and regulators. The goal, W. G. Campbell, then head of the F.D.A., told a Senate committee, was merely "to make self-medication safe."
The government broke that promise. As the Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist Peter Temin recounted in "Taking Your Medicine," his 1980 book on drug regulation, "The agency moved within six months of the bill's passage to curtail self-medication sharply and thereafter used a substantial and increasing proportion of its drug resources to enforce its imposed limitations." The agency created a new class of medicines that could be sold only by prescription -- a category that has greatly expanded over the succeeding decades. In doing so, Mr. Temin wrote, it "appointed doctors as the consumers' purchasing agents."
The Internet partially restores patients' rights to choose how they buy their medications and from whom. No wonder the drug censors are so upset.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Donald Partyka/Point Five Design)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION PLANETRX.COM INC (53%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (59%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); HAIR LOSS (74%); CENSORSHIP (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); SUBPOENAS (50%); 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



72 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: The Power We Must Not Squander

BYLINE: By Joseph S. Nye; Joseph S. Nye is dean of Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government and a former assistant secretary of defense.

 BODY:
The Republican presidential candidates are all more or less calling for a foreign policy they see as reminiscent of President Ronald Reagan -- engaging with the world, but unilaterally, with a narrow interpretation of American national interests. And although the Republicans have criticized President Clinton as watering down United States influence by working through multilateral groups, Mr. Clinton recently shocked American allies by also seeming to embrace unilateralism: in Seattle, he backed off from firm support of the World Trade Organization.
Our current foreign policy debate is not over whether to retreat into isolationism, but over how we should relate to the rest of the world. Polls show that the large majority of Americans do not want to turn inward, but neither do they want to be the world's policeman. What is missing in the campaign rhetoric is any acknowledgment of something Ronald Reagan understood well: America's soft power. 
 Hard power is exercised through economic sanction or military force. Soft power is our ability to get what we want through attraction rather than coercion. When other countries want the same outcome we want, then we can get what we want without having to spend as much on coercion. Both dimensions of power are important, and they work best when they reinforce each other.
One source of soft power is our values. To the extent that we are seen as a beacon of liberty, human rights and democracy, others are attracted to follow our lead. To the extent that we fail to live up to our proclaimed standards and seem like hypocrites, others are less willing to follow. Thus the quality of our domestic life -- prosperity, social safety nets, equal access to justice, democratic elections -- has a strong impact on our international position. Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy recognized four decades ago, for example, that racial segregation at home undercut our foreign policy.
The attraction of American universities for the half-million foreign students who study in them each year is another source of our soft power. Not all go home satisfied, but most gain a more realistic and positive appraisal of our country than they could get from home. For example, at a time when Chinese government propaganda was lambasting us, a former student in this country who was the son of a high Chinese official published a book widely read in Beijing that described the United States positively.
Another source of our soft power is cultural exports: films and television programs, art and academic writing, and material on the Internet. Not everyone is attracted to the values portrayed in our popular culture: some Iranian officials say that to understand what they mean by "the great Satan," one need merely watch MTV. But watching MTV is exactly what many young Iranians want to do.
Soft power also works through international organizations like the International Monetary Fund, NATO or the Inter-American Human Rights Commission. To the extent that they shape the agenda of choices for other countries in ways that are compatible with our interests, they enhance our soft power.
When others see our power as morally based, it is more effective. This is the point that Ronald Reagan's would-be disciples do not get. It is not enough for the United States merely to proclaim that we are right. Others must see it that way, too. Mr. Reagan's task was easier because most countries saw us as preferable in the cold war, but he nonetheless negotiated treaties with the Soviet Union and maintained American leadership in the United Nations.
Whatever the balance of costs and benefits of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, there was a significant cost to our soft power in the Senate's rejection of it and the manner of the rejection. Similarly, when we are seen as a bully that extends our laws (for example, on trade with Iran or Cuba) into the jurisdiction of our allies, we also diminish our soft power.
The German journalist Josef Joffe points out that historically, when one country is preponderant, the desire of others to balance its power leads them to team up against it. He asks why this has not yet happened to the United States. One reason he cites is American soft power. Others do not see us as a threat, but rather as an attraction.
Recently, however, comments from Europe have begun to echo the French line that an American "hyperpower" is a threat that must be checked and balanced. What a pity it would be if the unilateralist rhetoric of an election year led us to squander our soft power and to feed our enemies. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: NYE, JOSEPH S; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



73 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Digital Commerce;
An unregulated Internet may be exaggerating the movements on globalized, fluid financial markets.

BYLINE: By Denise Caruso 

 BODY:
AFTER a year of big gambles, the biggest of all may be the wager that our exalted Internet, held together with baling wire and chewing gum in every conceivable way -- legally, structurally, economically -- is going to be able to withstand the coming heavy weather of a truly global, unregulated economy.
Or perhaps the question is whether we will be able to withstand a global, unregulated Internet. 
 In either case, here at ground zero -- in the United States, capital of global capitalism -- stock market experts are beginning to acknowledge what some of us have suspected for a long time: technology stocks, in particular, are being kept aloft on their own hot air.
People buy them because they are performing better than regular stocks; they are performing better than regular stocks because people keep buying them.
And the mystery surrounding Internet stock valuations -- what are the criteria? -- may have been solved last week by Michael Mauboussin, the chief investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
The more popular the World Wide Web site, he declared, the higher its "ranking," the more the company is worth.
Just like in high school: Web sites with the highest valuations are like football captains or cheerleaders, whose top-of-the-chart popularity ratings give them far greater currency in the social order than, for example, the shy, geeky nerds who may excel in art or science.
Upon these things our new economy is built.
Now take this relatively microcosmic situation -- that the Internet stock market in the United States is a popularity contest, based on consumer moods and filled with millions of networked investors bluffing the financial markets like a poker game -- and consider what the ripple effect might be on an expanding global economy.
In so doing, some big thinkers -- most notably, Manuel Castells, author in 1998 of "The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture" -- start to get a little skittish about our big Internet gamble. In an essay titled, "Information Technology and Global Capitalism," Mr. Castells presents a chilling argument:
As a result of the globalization of largely unregulated and increasingly fluid financial markets, he says, "we may have created an automaton." By that, he means "an electronic-based system of financial transactions which overwhelms controls and regulations by governments, international institutions and private financial firms, as well as individual investors, consumer and citizens."
Mr. Castells' essay is included in a book to be published in London early this year called "On the Edge: Essays on a Runaway World," edited by Anthony Giddens, the director of the London School of Economics, and Will Hutton, the editor of The Observer in London.
Mr. Castells does not mean the term "automaton" literally. There are as yet few instances of financial transactions fully automated beyond the bounds of human intervention -- particularly after computer programs helped induce the stock market crash of October 1987 and the Securities and Exchange Commission began setting some limits on program trading.
But he cites a trend toward the computerization of trading systems: Nasdaq in the United States; Eurex in the German bond market; M, the French futures exchange; the London International Financial Futures Exchange, and private trading networks like Instinet, owned by Reuters.
Mr. Castells argues that these increasingly interconnected electronic networks, combined with domestic deregulation, the liberal flow of financial transactions across national borders and a constant, international flow of market-related news and information over the Internet make a "nightmare" of watching machines take control seem "on the edge of becoming reality."
The idea of networked computers with minds of their own is not new. But the computers envisioned in science fiction may belong to Mensa, the social network for those with the highest I.Q.'s; the network of Mr. Castells' nightmare is a dumb brute, knee-jerking to information turbulences that are amplified by inputs from millions of individual investors, creating ever-greater complexity and volatility.
The automaton is only the first problem that Mr. Castells cites for the future of today's go-go Internet economy.
Although American industry has managed to gut its labor movement, he says, Europe and Japan are less thrilled about the potential for "productivity" technology that first takes away jobs, then dismantles government supports.
Whether we like it or not, he continues, if they believe that network technology will do either of these things, "there will be a backlash of social struggles, and political reactions, that will simply block reform and innovation."
And because the United States is now interdependent on global economic performance, such a backlash "will ultimately exhaust the growth capacity of the U.S. economy," he warns.
Mr. Castells' belief, which is bound to be deeply unpopular in the United States, is that healthy global capitalism requires global financial regulations. Further, he argues that those regulations must take into account not only technological productivity and growth spurred by capital investment but also "socio-institutional engineering" that respects, values and includes people and cultures.
Virtually no one in the United States government, and certainly no one who is rolling in Internet clover, wants to touch this issue. Why would they? The United States is far and away the world leader in the information industries. And access to more and more global markets -- in part by dismantling regulations and government controls -- has been one of the hallmarks of the Clinton administration.
We ignore such issues at our own peril, Mr. Castells says. The fragility of global capitalism is such that a new round of instability, "perhaps induced by the collapse of Internet stocks, or by a sudden panic around electronic trading networks," he writes, could trigger a stampede toward the exits.
But this time, "there could be governments or significant segments of society opting out of global capitalism," he suggests -- "not necessarily to build an alternative system, but just to recover some degree of control over their lives and values."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); WRITERS (67%); BONDS (67%); POKER (63%); 

PERSON: CARUSO, DENISE; CASTELLS, MANUEL MANUEL CASTELLS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



74 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Euro Is Seen Rising Against Dollar

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Wim Duisenberg, the president of the European Central Bank, said today that he expected the euro to rise against the dollar this year as the European economy grows faster than that of the United States.
"We expect the euro to recover in the course of the year," Mr. Duisenberg said in an interview with the Dutch television program "Buitenhof." 
 Mr. Duisenberg said that he did not expect the euro to fall below $1 and that he thought the euro's exchange rate would "go in the other direction this year" after falling to $1.009 from a starting rate of $1.16 in 1999.
The euro's expected recovery will be the result of stronger economic growth in the 11 countries using the euro than in the United States this year as well as next, he said.
Unexpectedly strong economic growth in the United States in 1999 led to the dollar's appreciation against the euro, which had already fallen from a high start-up level, Mr. Duisenberg said.
"We began the euro at a level that was much higher than it had been in the previous two years," he said. "Due to the 'europhoria' that arose from the fact that it was really going to happen, it was a little overestimated -- the average level in 1997 and 1998 was $1.08." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (78%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (78%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (78%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EURO (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRENDS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); 

PERSON: DUISENBERG, WIM WIM DUISENBERG (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



75 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Business Day, Part Two: The Year in the Markets
The story of the financial markets in 1999 was of stocks that flew higher than at any time over the last decade. Enough of them soared that the major market indexes all closed the year at record highs. 
 And yet, all that prosperity hid some weakness. With interest rates rising and oil prices soaring, many stocks struggled. The Nasdaq composite index leaped 85.6 percent -- a performance that exceeded the gain for any major index in any year. But there were a lot of Nasdaq losers as well. Coverage of the year in stocks, including tables, starts on Page C17.
 
F.C.C. to Pick Chief Technologist
The Federal Communications Commission plans to announce today that it has appointed David J. Farber, a pioneering computer scientist and telecommunications expert, as the agency's chief technologist. Mr. Farber, a University of Pennsylvania professor, drew attention last year when he served as a Justice Department expert witness in the bitter Microsoft antitrust trial. C6.
 
The Peril of Direct Internet Sales
Just as Amazon.com has led millions of would-be entrepreneurs toward the e-commerce promised land, so too has the success of Dell Computer led countless manufacturers to believe that their future success rides on the ability to sell directly to consumers over the Internet. But manufacturers who have ventured onto the Web have found that unless they can convince their retail partners and distributors they are not out to steal sales from them, bad things can happen to the bottom line. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C7.
 
St. Petersburg Times Pays Off Debt
The company that publishes The St. Petersburg Times has paid off a $30 million debt to the Poynter Institute for Media Studies, the nonprofit group that owns it, ensuring the durability of one of the country's most unusual newspaper ownership arrangements. C13.
 
Israel Bank Chief to Stay a Week
Jacob Frenkel, the chief of Israel's central bank, who was to have stepped down, agreed to stay another week while Prime Minister Ehud Barak continues to look for a successor. C12.
 
Web Stocks as Popularity Contest
Stock market experts are beginning to acknowledge what many have suspected for a long time: technology stocks are being kept aloft on their own hot air. The mystery surrounding the stock valuations may have been solved last week by the chief investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, who declared that the more popular the Web site, the higher its "ranking" and the more the company is worth. Digital Commerce. C4.
 
U.S. Markets Resume Regular Hours
United States stock and bond markets, which closed early on Friday for the New Year's holiday, will return to regular hours today. Many markets in Asia and some markets in Europe are closed today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 11497.12 up 91.36
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.48% down 0.01
The euro -- $1.0092 down 0.0044
The dollar -- 102.27 yen up 0.15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); BONDS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (68%); EXPERT WITNESSES (68%); WITNESSES (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



76 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Internet Pioneer to Be Named Top F.C.C.Technologist

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission plans to announce today that it has appointed a pioneering computer scientist and telecommunications expert as the agency's chief technologist.
The appointee, David J. Farber, a University of Pennsylvania professor, drew attention last year when he served as a Justice Department expert witness in the Microsoft antitrust trial. 
 Mr. Farber, who is currently the Alfred Fitler Moore Professor of Telecommunications Systems at the University of Pennsylvania, will keep his teaching position there even after moving to Washington to work full-time for the F.C.C. later this month.
A pioneer of the Internet, Mr. Farber helped develop the first electronic telephone switches while at Bell Laboratories in the 1960's. During the 1970's, he conducted ground-breaking work in networked computing systems at the University of California at Irvine.
Notably outspoken on technology policy issues, Mr. Farber is perhaps best known in the Internet community for his influential e-mail distribution list, which he calls "Interesting People." To about 25,000 people each day he sends tidbits of information, forwarded from other e-mails and a steady stream of his own thoughts and opinions.
An inveterate traveler and a self-described gadget freak, Mr. Farber has been known to brief his e-mail correspondents on such adventures as his visit to Akihabara, the high-technology shopping district in Tokyo.
In a telephone interview on Saturday, Mr. Farber said that he would be allowed to maintain his list while working for the F.C.C. "I couldn't have accepted the job otherwise," he said.
As a government witness at the Microsoft trial last year, Mr. Farber argued against one of Microsoft's main contentions: that the way the company had chosen to integrate its browser software into its Windows operating system was the only possible technical alternative.
"In general, designers have a huge amount of flexibility in how to package these files, the same way you have a large amount of flexibility in how you put things in a grocery bag, as long as you don't crush stuff," he said in court. "Software is infinitely malleable."
His point rebutted Microsoft's argument that its decision to integrate its browser into the operating system was purely technical and not motivated by a desire to cripple the company's competition.
Mr. Farber, 65, said that he would get involved in a variety of technology issues at the F.C.C., including high-speed and wireless networks, and the impact of the Internet on media the agency now regulates.
"There is a struggle for radio spectrum," he said, "and that is one of the issues we will have to grapple with." Another focus will be the convergence of communications and computing technologies and the infusion of Internet technology into the nation's communications system.
One of the first to understand and speak out on the social, political and economic implications of the Internet, Mr. Farber has maintained a quirky sense of independence from many of the bureaucratic positions of both large high technology companies and governments.
For a time recently, his e-mail carried the following tag line, alluding to the movement of electronic information: "Photons have neither morals or visas."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Farber, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, is expected to be appointed the chief technologist at the F.C.C. (Marty Katz)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION MICROSOFT CORP (58%); BELL LABORATORIES (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET APPOINTMENTS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); EXPERT WITNESSES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (75%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); INTERNET BROWSERS (62%); 

PERSON: FARBER, DAVID J (PROF) ANN LIVERMORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



77 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN THE MARKETS;
1999: Extraordinary Winners and More Losers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
When they were hot, they were very, very hot. But when they were not, they were losers.
The story of the stock market in 1999 was of stocks that flew higher than at any time in the last decade. Enough of them soared that the major market indexes all closed the year at record highs. The best-performing stocks leaped not by hundreds, but by thousands of percentage points. Applying that standard, it was the year of the decade. 
 And yet, all that prosperity hid some weaknesses. With interest rates rising and oil prices soaring, many stocks struggled. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks gained 19.5 percent during the year, but more issues in the index fell than rose.
The Nasdaq composite index leaped 85.6 percent -- a performance that exceeded the gain for any major index in any year in the history of stock markets in the United States. But there were a lot of Nasdaq losers as well, and the index of financial stocks listed on that market ended the year down 9 percent.
To appreciate just how great a year it was for the winners, compare Qualcomm, the best-performing stock of 1999 (among those that began the year over $5 a share) with the top performers of previous years. Qualcomm rose 2,619 percent in 1999. Twelve other stocks on Nasdaq that started the year over $5 managed to climb at least 1,000 percent. A further seven issues rose at least 900 percent.
By contrast, in the first nine years of the decade, only one such stock ever rose as much as 900 percent in a year. That was Amazon.com, which soared 966 percent in 1998.
Perhaps the most amazing stock of the year was Xcelera.com, formerly known as Scandinavia. Once a closed-end fund specializing in Scandinavian stocks, and then an operating company that owned a hotel in the Canary Islands, it made a small investment in an Internet company last year. Before it disclosed that investment, the family of Alexander Vik, the company's chief executive, was given options to buy a million shares of stock, at a price of $3.25 each. The shares ended 1998 at $3.75, or $1.25 adjusted for two subsequent splits. They ended 1999 at $139.50, an increase of 11,060 percent. The Viks' option position is now valued at $415 million.
There was also no shortage of hot initial public offerings in 1999. Where it once was deemed embarrassing for an offering to double during the first day, since it indicated that the underwriter had underestimated demand and failed to get the best deal for the company going public, it now seems to be a badge of honor.
Just why that should be so is an interesting question. Perhaps companies think that the amount of money being raised is relatively small compared to the prestige of having a stock deemed to be hot, and figure that in any case, they can always raise more capital later. Perhaps they are happy to be able to provide a quick profit for friends and family members allowed to buy shares at the offering price.
Or perhaps the market is just too hot for the underwriters to deal with. Last month, Goldman, Sachs tripled the planned offering price for FreeMarkets, one of a number of companies trying to find a niche helping businesses get better deals, at lower transaction costs, by using the Internet. Priced at $48 a share, up from a planned range of $14 to $16, the shares leaped to $290 the first day and ended the year at $341.31.
General Motors was involved in two initial public offerings during the year. One was for a company with a long business history that included substantial profit. Buyers in that deal suffered. The other had almost no history. It became one of the most successful offerings of the year.
The poor performer was Delphi Automotive Systems, G.M.'s parts operations. It went public in February at $17 a share and ended the year down 7 percent, at $15.75.
The other offering was Commerce One, a company hoping to prosper in the business-to-business Internet arena, and which G.M. has agreed to use to buy products from suppliers. Commerce One went public in July at $7 a share (adjusted for a subsequent split), closed the first day at $20.33 and ended the year at $196.50, for a gain from the offering price of 2,707 percent.
G.M. hopes to save money by buying through Commerce One, but it will be a long time, if ever, before its savings from those purchases equal its paper profit on its investment in Commerce One. It has an option to buy 14.4 million shares of Commerce One -- now valued at $2.8 billion -- for a total price of $480.
Commerce One's offering was the second most successful of 1999, in terms of performance from the offering price, according to calculations by Thomson Financial/Securities Data. The winner was the Internet Capital Group, a company that invests in other Internet companies. It more than doubled its first day of trading, Aug. 5, and that was just the beginning.
By the time the year ended, the stock was at $170 a share, even after splitting two for one. That compared with an offering price, adjusted for the split, of $6, and a first-day close of $12.22. The company, which since its inception in 1996 has reported losses of $112 million on revenue of $15 million, now has a market value of $44 billion.
Some initial offerings that looked great the first day, however, soon looked quite ill. Value America, an Internet retailer, went public in April at $23 a share and traded as high as $74.25 the first day. It ended the year at $5.06 after announcing plans to lay off many of its employees. Another retailer, eToys, ended the year at $26.25, above its offering price of $20, but far below the high of $86 reached in October.
The size of the moves made by the winners reflects the speculative fever gripping the market and is based on hopes that as the Internet transforms the economy, companies that did not exist a few years ago will become giants.
In all that, the example of Yahoo, one of the first of the Internet companies to go public, stands out as the shining example. It more than doubled the day it went public -- April 15, 1996 -- and within a few months had fallen back to the offering price. But an investor who put $1,000 into the stock at the close of trading that first day, and held on, would now have stock worth $80,500. That is more than 10 times as much as someone who bought Microsoft the day it went public in 1986 would have had after the same amount of time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "A Year to Remember"
The Nasdaq stock market outshined the competition in 1999. While the Dow Jones industrials (up 25.2 percent) and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index (up 19.5 percent) posted solid gains, the Nasdaq soared 85.6 percent. As if to gloat, the market's new eight-story, $37 million electronic sign began glowing on Times Square in late December.
 
Graph tracks the Nasdaq composite, Dow Jones Industrial, and Standard & Poor's 500 indexes since January 1999.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C17)
 
Chart: "A Decade of Winners"
Best-performing stock each year, excluding stocks that began under $5. Subsequent gains are from end of year it was the best performer through the end of 1999.
 

	 	 	 	YEAR	COMPANY	FIRST-YEAR GAIN	SUBSEQUENT				PERFORMANCE	1990	AST Research*	259	-71	1991	Ivax	639	-33	1992	Newbridge Networks	441	+119	1993	Glenayre Technologies	467	-12	1994	Microtouch Systems	555	-72	1995	Biovail International	836	+264	1996	Viasoft	688	-88	1997	Yahoo	509	+2,399	1998	Amazon.com	966	+42	1999	Qualcomm	2,619	--	
*Performance is through aquisition by Samsung Electronics in 1997.
(Sources: Associated Press; Media General; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C18)
 
Chart: "Not for the Faint of Heart"
The Nasdaq composite index has been increasingly volatile. Last year the index closed up or down at least 1 percent on nearly 60 percent of trading days.
 
Graph tracks percentage of days NASDAQ changed since 1971.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (55%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (71%); SPAIN (53%); 

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (71%); SPAIN (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BONDS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



78 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN THE MARKETS;
Foreign Stocks Outperformed U.S. Equities

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Americans have not shopped abroad for stocks with fervor since 1993. And the truth is, they have had little need to wander the globe.
Last year, the three major American stock indexes produced double-digit returns for the fifth consecutive year -- an unprecedented feat -- and the technology-heavy Nasdaq index popped off the charts. 
 But investors with wanderlust were probably rewarded in 1999. After running ahead of the pack for four years, the American stock market trailed the foreign market average. From 1995 to 1998, United States stocks outperformed those elsewhere by an average of 22.9 percentage points a year, according to performance indexes compiled by Morgan Stanley Capital International.
Last year, though, the rest of the world's stock markets, taken as a whole, rose 28.8 percent, ahead of the 20.9 percent gain in the United States, according to Morgan Stanley.
Stocks in emerging markets rebounded from a dismal 1998 to lead the way with a gain of 63.7 percent. Europe, which was fairly competitive with the United States in 1997 and 1998, did well again for local investors. But the unexpected decline of Europe's new 11-nation currency, the euro, against the dollar, eroded most of the gains for American investors. The Morgan Stanley index of the 11 euro markets and Britain, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland rose 14.1 percent in dollar terms last year. In local currency, the index gained 27.9 percent.
Still, the big surprise was Japan, where stocks rose 60.6 percent in dollar terms. From its high at the end of 1989, the Japanese stock market plunged 58 percent in dollar terms to its low in October 1998. Even with last year's rally, Japanese stocks were still 16.1 percent below their 1989 peak in dollar terms.
With the exception of Japanese equities, Americans have been selling more foreign stocks than they have been buying recently.
But that could change. Many Americans are noticing that their portfolios are not doing as well as the big-name stock indexes might suggest. At the end of 1999, according to Salomon Smith Barney, about two-thirds of the stocks on the New York Stock Exchange were at least 20 percent below their 52-week highs.
And a failure of American stock indexes to meet investors' expectations could spur more portfolio adjustments.
Abby Joseph Cohen, market strategist at Goldman Sachs, said opportunities in foreign markets could attract American investors. "First, if U.S. returns are good, not great, investors may be willing to move out along the perceived risk curve," she wrote in her outlook for 2000. "Second, global economic conditions are less worrisome than they have been in recent years."
The rally last year in emerging markets was powered by a faster-than-expected improvement in local economies.
Among the best performers in dollar terms were: Russia, up 246.2 percent; Turkey, up 244.4 percent; Malaysia, 111.6 percent; Indonesia, 92 percent; South Korea, 90.2 percent; India, 84.7; and Brazil, 73 percent. Except for South Korea, all those markets had fallen sharply in 1998. Russia's stock index, in dollar terms, is still 141 percent from its 1997 high, although it rallied sharply New Year's Eve on the news of President Boris N. Yeltsin's resignation.
The leading performers among major companies in emerging markets were: Infosys Technologies of India, up 858.3 percent; SK Telecom of South Korea, up 620.9 percent; and United Microelectronics of Taiwan, up 228.5 percent.
Some analysts contend that these markets, which suffered during the global financial crisis of 1997 and 1998, should outdo Wall Street this year, though past performance does not guarantee future returns.
Jay Pelosky, the global emerging markets strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said that gains could become more concentrated in a few big and well-known companies, mirroring some of the shift to a narrow group of leaders in the American stock market. "The top 100 stocks in the Morgan Stanley emerging markets index have already significantly outperformed the rest of the stocks in the index this year," he said.
The surge in European stocks was led by technology, media and telecommunications companies, as was the American stock market. Over the last three months, the technology, media and telecommunications stocks in a Merrill Lynch index of European stocks have jumped 57 percent while the rest of the stocks in the index are up just 6 percent.
The top gainers included: Nokia of Finland, up 194.7 percent; Ericsson of Sweden, up 168.9 percent; and Deutsche Telekom of Germany, up 116.3 percent. The best markets, in dollar terms, were: Finland, up 150.7 percent, France, up 28 percent; and Germany, up 18.7 percent. Italy fell 1.5 percent, while Belgium plunged 15.8 percent.
This year could be more difficult for European stocks if, as some analysts expect, the rebound in economic growth is strong enough to force the European Central Bank to raise interest rates. Higher rates make financing more costly for companies and serve to depress corporate profits.
"We are reasonably cautious on the European market for the year," said Plum Shipton, the European equity strategist for Merrill Lynch in London, because of the threat of higher interest rates and the already high valuation of the stock market.
In Japan, investors began scrambling back into stocks as the government worked to shore up the banking system and as the first signs of economic recovery appeared. The rush of mutual fund managers and institutional investors -- who had ignored Japan for years -- was one of the more important market moves of 1999. Their purchases of Japanese stocks increased demand for the yen and pushed the currency to a four-year high against the dollar. The yen's surge forced the Japanese government to intervene repeatedly in the currency markets in a futile attempt to curb the currency's rise, lest Japanese exports be priced out of foreign markets.
Like Europe and the United States, much of the stock rally in Japan has come on the back of technology and telecommunications stocks. And like Europe, Japan provided a currency lesson for American investors. In this case, it was a positive one, with about 25 percent of the returns posted by American investors coming from the rise in the yen.
Among the big stocks to post outsized gains were the Softbank Corporation, up 1,485 percent, but still well below its 1996 high, and the Kyocera Corporation, up 389.2 percent.
Elizabeth Allan, a senior vice president and longtime Japan watcher at Scudder Kemper Investments, said the pace of economic growth bears watching. "Many Japanese are still worried about losing their jobs," she said, and that fear is dampening the consumer spending needed to push the economy ahead.
"Increased consumer spending is key for a second leg of the economic recovery," she added.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks yearly returns of M.S.C.I. equity indexes for emerging markets since 1990. (pg. C17)
 
Graph tracks yearly returns of M.S.C.I. equity indexes for the United States since 1990. (pg. C17)
 
Graph tracks yearly returns of M.S.C.I. equity indexes for Europe since 1990. (pg. C17)
 
Chart: "How World Stock Markets Fared in 1999"
Change in Morgan Stanley Capital international contry indexes of market performance since Jan. 1, 1999. In local currency and dollars, plotted weekly.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C18)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY STOCK INDEXES (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BONDS (72%); EURO (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



79 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
McCain Could Win

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A sea change has taken place in the American election system without our noticing it. The "independentation" of the primaries will determine our next president.
In olden times -- a decade or so ago -- state primary elections were often battlegrounds for partisans within each party. Liberal Democrats would wrestle with "new" or "blue dog" Democrats to choose candidates, just as economic conservatives would joust with social conservatives to pick G.O.P. nominees. Nor was it only ideological: Young Turks would go up against entrenched leadership. 
 There was a tidiness to this. Voters were given an incentive to join a party: by signing up, you could vote twice -- first to choose your party's nominee and then for whomever you preferred in the general election. Independents didn't get to vote in the primaries.
It's all been changing. In the crucial early primaries of the next seven weeks, unaligned voters -- not hard-core party regulars nor activists in organized pressure groups of left and right -- will decide the nominees of both parties.
This was unplanned. It has given an unremarked kick in the head to the two-party system. The generation-old rise of the primary was supposed to devolve power from party bosses to party members. But this year the opening of both parties' gates is transforming presidential politics. No party registration is required in the three launch-pad states. Independent voters will be decisive in choosing party standard-bearers.
In New Hampshire, independents may vote in either party's primary, which is why both Bill Bradley and John McCain are polling so well against the party establishments' Al Gore and George W. Bush. The bigger the independent turnout, the likelier a pair of insurgent victories.
In South Carolina -- Bush's "firewall state" in case McCain beats him in New Hampshire -- there also is no party registration. Jennifer Martin Donohue of WNDS-TV in New Hampshire, a distant cousin who awakened me to this phenomenon, reports that the South Carolina G.O.P. expects a turnout of 300,000 this year, 5 percent more than in 1996. Polls of Republicans have been showing Bush with a four-to-one lead.
That's largely because pollsters fail to take into account the new political paradigm. One-third of S.C.'s two million voters are habitual switchers, and the only primary action this year is Republican on Feb. 19 (the Democratic "firehouse caucuses" come weeks later).
Bush is counting on the previous governor's "machine" and on Pat Robertson's marshaling of the religious right's support of soft money. But McCain has Representative Lindsey Graham, the most popular figure in the state, saying that campaign finance reform bolsters sound conservative government.
The state's 400,000 veterans -- highest percentage anywhere -- are largely independents. All they have to do to become eligible on primary day is to declare a G.O.P. preference.
Then comes Michigan, also with no party registration, which has its G.O.P. primary three days later on Feb. 22. Again, Bush is heavily favored because Bushie Gov. John Engler has the party machinery. But any of Michigan's two million independents charged up by coverage of a South Carolina upset can walk in and become a Republican for a day.
Michigan's Democratic caucuses should be duck soup for Gore, with his union backing. But Bradley's secret weapon is the mail-in ballot: any independent (who may have voted for McCain two weeks before) can send in a ballot declaring Democratic preference and choosing Bradley. Those "absentee" votes probably will count. (This recalls Jack Valenti's "When I die, bury me in Texas because I want to remain politically active.")
What will the addition of the new "party temporaries" to the old-fashioned party regulars mean to 2000's primaries? Gore and Bush strategists will deplore "the invasion of the party snatchers" because they know it will strengthen Bradley and McCain -- by how much, nobody knows. But certainly on the G.O.P. side, the coming three-state unregistered ramble requires a re-thinking of Philadelphia Conventional wisdom.
McCain, by virtue of the wide-openness of the three launch-pad primaries, is no longer a long shot. And if independents in party clothing do help make the happy hero the G.O.P. nominee, McCain could claim to be more likely than Bush to beat the Democrat. (Unless it's the maverick Bradley. Then everything's up for grabs.) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; SOUTH CAROLINA; MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) JOHN MCCAIN (89%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



80 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR 2000: THE WORKERS;
For Year 2000 Fix-It Crew, New Tasks or No Jobs

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
When Paul J. Maszczak was tapped more than three years ago to head his company's Year 2000 computer repairs, he recalled, "I considered it the kiss of death." Instead of developing new software using the latest technology, he would be relegated to fixing programs written years or decades earlier.
But Mr. Maszczak now says that becoming Year 2000 manager at C. R. Bard Inc., a medical device manufacturer in Murray Hill, N.J., was one of the best moves in his 30-year career in data processing. The job lifted him out of the narrow confines of the information technology department, exposing him to all aspects of his company's business. 
 Now, with those efforts winding down, Mr. Maszczak thinks his broader business knowledge has prepared him for a bigger management job. As for day-to-day systems work, "I could never go back," he said. Now, he said, "we're free agents."
The year 2000 has finally arrived, and the vast Y2K repair corps is being scattered to the winds, having apparently saved the world from the widespread disasters once feared.
But while there is relief that few Year 2000 problems emerged over the weekend, some Y2K workers, having completed a task that has long consumed them, must now struggle with what to do next.
Like Mr. Maszczak, some workers expect to go on to bigger and better things. Most others are simply going back to previous jobs, as corporate information processing departments return to work put aside in their race to repair Year 2000 flaws. Yet for many, the end of the readiness efforts means the end of their jobs.
For Randall Bart, for instance, Year 2000 work proved to be a short-lived bonanza. After being laid off from Unisys, the computer maker, in 1988, Mr. Bart did not find work as a programmer until 10 years later, when Y2K made what he calls his "obsolete experience" worth $45 an hour. But his last job ended in August and Mr. Bart, 43, who lives in Los Angeles, has been unable to find work since.
"I'm hoping for some big disaster somewhere to hit," he said, only half joking.
To be sure, Year 2000 work is not ending abruptly. It has been ratcheting down for months, and thousands of people have already been dismissed, but work will continue because computer problems might still arise over the coming months.
Howard Rubin, a consultant and head of the computer science department at Hunter College in New York, who surveyed big corporations about their preparedness activities, estimates that as many as a fourth of the two million information technology workers in big companies in the United States did Y2K repairs at one time or another.
Of course, computer people are not the only ones who got involved. Many others were swept up in the effort -- contacting suppliers and customers to assess their readiness, surveying factory machinery, planning for contingencies and so on.
All told, many millions of people throughout the world were involved in Year 2000 preparations in one way or another.
Many people profited handsomely, taking their share of the more than $250 billion the world is estimated to have spent to enable computers and other electronic machinery to recognize that a year can begin with 20 instead of 19.
"It absolutely made our company," said Peter A. Allen, president of Data Dimensions Inc., a computer consulting concern that grew from $1 million in annual revenues in the early 1990's to $115 million in 1998, 80 percent of it from Year 2000 work.
But that work has already slowed significantly, and the Bellevue, Wash., company has laid off about 300 of its 850 workers.
Mr. Allen said the customer contacts and skills the company has developed doing Year 2000 work will help it move into other areas, like electronic commerce. But investors are not so sure. Data Dimension's stock price has fallen from almost $40 in late 1997 to under $3 today.
About two years ago, there were predictions that the world would not have enough programmers to scan billions of lines of code and fix any date problems. Some programmers were lured out of retirement to fix programs they had written decades earlier, and there was even talk of enlisting prison inmates.
In fact, salaries for programmers and systems analysts did jump, and many companies offered retention bonuses to keep programmers from jumping ship until well into 2000. Union Bank of California, for instance, gave Year 2000 workers bonuses equal to 10 percent of their salaries in 1998 and 1999. Those who stay until March will be eligible for an additional bonus equal to 20 percent of their salaries.
But the great shortage never materialized. Many companies that were started to do Year 2000 work for others got far less business than they had anticipated. While early predictions were that repairs would cost $1 or $2 for each line of code, prices dropped to 25 cents a line or even lower. And many retirees did not find jobs.
One reason is that the repairs turned out to be less complex than imagined, in part because software was developed to help automate the process. Indeed, the Year 2000 was quickly transformed from a problem involving older computer programs to a generalized business, political and legal issue as companies wrestled with contingency planning, supplier and customer relationships and questions of legal liability and public relations.
"The code really has been the smallest issue in all of this," said Lou Marcoccio, research director at the Gartner Group, another consulting company. In many companies, he said, the nonprogrammers working on the problem outnumbered the programmers.
Ultimately, companies were able to handle it, even if they occasionally had to strain to do so.
Mr. Rubin, the consultant, said that on average, big companies spent about 10 percent of their information technology budgets over three years of Year 2000 repairs, although for peak periods, the issue consumed as much as half the computer budgets of some. Merrill Lynch, for instance, spent $520 million over several years on its Year 2000 effort, but the brokerage firm spends $3.2 billion a year on information technology.
Most companies did the job in-house, even if it meant pushing other work aside. It was cheaper that way and the company's own programmers were most familiar with the software that had to be fixed. Edison International, which owns Southern California Edison, did its Year 2000 work for $70 million after rejecting a contractor's offer to do it for $171 million, said Eric Trapp, who managed the job for the utility.
Some companies contracted work to firms in India, where wages are lower. But some industry officials say there was also less of that than had been predicted.
For repair companies and individual programmers wondering what to do next, the good news is there is an overall shortage of computer people, especially as software work postponed to deal with the Year 2000 problem moves back up priority lists. The bad news is that the greatest demand is for designers of Internet software, especially for electronic retailing; the expertise of most Year 2000 companies and workers lies in older computers and programs, known as legacy systems.
"These people built up the Latin of technology," Mr. Rubin said.
Still if the episode taught the world anything, it is that these legacy systems are vital and are not going away soon. There is still much work to be done on them, including enabling them to connect to Internet software. And many companies have put off these other jobs to focus on the Year 2000 problem.
"We've been building up a really nice backlog of things to do," said Lee Kirkpatrick, senior vice president and Year 2000 manager for Union Bank, who said the priority would shift to electronic commerce.
Merrill Lynch rushed to finish most Year 2000 work by June 30 so it could devote more resources to designing its online stock trading system, said John McKinley, the brokerage firm's chief technology officer. Now, he said, former Year 2000 programmers are being put on jobs like getting the company ready for 24-hour stock exchanges and decimalization of stock prices.
With Y2K, computer professionals, often stereotyped as geeks and loners, found themselves the life of the party, sought out by laymen friends for counsel on whether the world was really going to end on Jan. 1. More people within corporations and in society came to appreciate the importance of their work.
But the limelight was not always comfortable. After all, programmers created the Year 2000 problem by representing years using two digits instead of four, a tactic that seemed rational in the early days of computing as a way to conserve scarce processing and data storage capacity. If Jan. 1 had brought a rash of mishaps, the computer profession would have faced even more criticism for shoddy work, and perhaps pressure for government regulation.
Paradoxically, now that the date rollover appears to be going smoothly, some critics are saying that the threat was exaggerated by computer professionals out to make a buck.
While there were clearly some charlatans, many programmers still recovering from an exhausting, nerve-racking race against an immutable deadline are now feeling as if they have become victims of their own success.
"I'm already hearing that from my own family -- that it's all been overblown," said Celia Murray, a systems analyst with the Office of Real Property Services, a New York State agency. "I think it could have been really bad, no question about it. A lot of people worked really hard. That's the reason people can sit here and say it's all overblown."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Paul J. Maszczak, becoming Year 2000 manager for his company was a career-transforming experience. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCR (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (72%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: C R BARD INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (93%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); DISMISSALS (75%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (71%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW RANDALL BART (65%); PETER A ALLEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



81 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Putin Appears Ready to Reap the Benefits of Incumbency as Russian Vote Approaches

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 2

 BODY:
A top assistant to Russia's acting president, Vladimir V. Putin, said today that it would be all but impossible for Mr. Putin to lose the presidential election tentatively set for March. For now, at least, no one seemed to disagree.
After cramming his first two days as acting president with campaign-style speeches, news conferences, a trip to a war zone and a chat with President Clinton, Mr. Putin kept away from cameras today. 
 But his staff kept the publicity going, suggesting in a briefing for reporters that Mr. Putin is so confident of victory in March that he will do little traditional campaigning.
"I don't think Putin will run any special election campaign as he will have to combine the duties of president and prime minister," said Igor Shabdurasulov, the first deputy chief of the presidential staff.
Although he said he was reluctant to make political forecasts, Mr. Shabdurasulov said it was unrealistic to believe that anyone could beat Mr. Putin.
It will be better if Mr. Putin wins an outright majority in the first round of voting, he said, because a runoff election would only "waste time."
The Kremlin had been working hard to establish just such an air of invincibility about Mr. Putin even before President Boris N. Yeltsin dumbfounded the nation on Friday by resigning and handing Mr. Putin the job of running the country. But for once the optimism seems justified, even though political half-lives here are as often measured in months as in years.
Mr. Putin's only serious rival so far, Yevgeny M. Primakov, the former foreign minister and prime minister, suffered a huge blow when his political party, Fatherland-All Russia, stumbled in parliamentary elections last month. Another contender, Grigory A. Yavlinsky, the leader of the liberal Yabloko Party, also faded after the party's candidates did not do as well in that election as it had hoped.
That leaves only the Communist Party, which can count on a solid 25 to 30 percent of the vote in any election, but not much more.
In Washington today, President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, warned that the mounting casualties among Russian soldiers in the fierce battle for Chechnya's capital, Grozny, could pose political problems for Mr. Putin if the conflict is not settled soon.
"If he can't bring this to an end -- a peaceful end -- quickly, if the costs become too high for the Russians, and the resistance is increasing, this could become an albatross around his neck in March," Mr. Berger said on the ABC program "This Week."
If Mr. Putin or his assistants share that view, however, they are concealing it nicely. Despite complaints from the West about the brutality of the war, it has remained the engine of Mr. Putin's popularity.
Returning Saturday afternoon from a highly publicized trip to the Chechnya front, Mr. Putin said he believes that "everything we have done so far has been justified."
Later, in remarks carried on the Moscow news station Echo Moskvy, Mr. Putin added that the Kremlin has "no intention to liberate anything by acting hastily."
"We plan to act in the best possible way, which means as few losses as possible among our servicemen and no losses among the civilian population," he said.
As part of what is already starting to look like an event-a-day campaign schedule, Mr. Putin had planned to meet today with newly elected members of the lower house of Parliament. But all Russia traditionally rests and celebrates in the days after the New Year, and not enough legislators could be rounded up for a meeting.
Instead, Mr. Shabdurasulov, the presidential aide, sketched out in barest detail Mr. Putin's plans for his transition into the presidency and for the campaign -- plans more notable for what was not mentioned than for what was.
He said, for example, that Mr. Putin probably will make few changes in the government he inherited from Mr. Yeltsin, although one presidential adviser, Tatyana Dyachenko, "probably would change her status."
Ms. Dyachenko, Mr. Yeltsin's 39-year-old daughter, is a crucial Kremlin political strategist who is rumored to have been behind Mr. Putin's swift rise to power. Mr. Shabdurasulov's ambiguous language left it unclear whether she will remain in the Kremlin or leave with her father.
Similarly, Mr. Shabdurasulov said no one had decided whether to accept the offers of two of Mr. Yeltsin's allies, Anatoly B. Chubais and Boris Berezovsky, to work in Mr. Putin's presidential campaign.
Mr. Chubais, an architect of the economic reforms that ended with a disastrous financial collapse last year, now runs the nation's electricity monopoly. Mr. Berezovsky, a tycoon who was a major financier of Mr. Yeltsin's 1996 re-election campaign, is said to be a close friend of Ms. Dyachenko.
Moscow's political class will be closely watching the fates of the three to see whether Mr. Putin is setting an independent course or is -- as critics charge -- a tool for extending the Yeltsin clan's reign beyond that of its patriarch.
The only sour note today came from the media empire of another tycoon, Vladimir Gusinsky, a bitter foe of Mr. Berezovsky and now, it seems, of Mr. Putin.
The weekly news magazine program "Itogi," broadcast tonight on Mr. Gusinsky's NTV network, charged that Kremlin strategists and K.G.B. veterans like Mr. Putin had plotted Mr. Yeltsin's resignation for months -- perhaps without Mr. Yeltsin's consent -- in an effort to prolong their own power.
The program also suggested that they had probably succeeded.
"Broad opportunities now open up for Putin," it said. "The chances of his competitors for the post of president are now at an incredibly low level.
"Putin has now received a full arsenal of power, almost unlimited power, and with all of his qualities there is no need to doubt that the president will use all of the levers to hold onto this power." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA; GROZNY (CHECHNYA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); LIBERALISM (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; PUTIN, VLADIMIR; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); BERGER, SAMUEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M BILL CLINTON (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



82 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2581 words

HEADLINE: Willing Contenders at a Premium In Fierce Fight to Rule Congress

SERIES: TESTING POLITICS/The Candidates

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WINTER HAVEN, Fla.

 BODY:
Rick and Julie Dantzler thought they had made their decision back in April: Despite the pleas of party leaders, despite the lure of an open seat, Rick would not run for Congress this year.
They were still burned out and bruised from his unsuccessful campaigns for both the Democratic nomination for governor and the lieutenant governor's job in Florida in 1998. Their daughters, Liz, 13, and Margaret, 10, were thriving, and as Julie put it: "We get one shot at 10 and 13. We only get one shot at that." 
 But as 1999 wound to a close, and there was no Democratic candidate in the race, the Dantzlers found themselves wrestling with the decision one more time, while Democrats in Florida and Washington watched in suspense. One question kept coming up. "Can you make enough of a difference there to really justify what you're going to be missing here?" Mr. Dantzler asked, surrounded by his family on a quiet December afternoon.
In a year like 2000, when the two parties are locked in a furious battle for control of the House, the civics books would suggest that candidates like Mr. Dantzler would be lining up to join the fray. In fact, while both parties hail their success in getting experienced, high-quality candidates to run, many potential candidates will agonize over the decision and quite a few will ultimately say no.
The reluctance of these candidates is part of the explanation for a striking reality of American politics this year. For all the talk about the battle for the House, perhaps as few as a tenth of the Congressional districts will have truly competitive races, with a fair contest of ideas and agendas. And the more that strong candidates bow out, the fewer real battles there will be.
In most districts, held by well-financed incumbents, there will probably not be much of a battle at all, many political professionals say.
"I think the dirty little secret is out, that 94 percent of all incumbents win," said Charles Cook, a longtime analyst of Congressional campaigns who publishes a political newsletter.
It is a paradox for what was intended by the framers as "the people's house," so responsive and closely attuned to the voters that it needed the Senate to keep it in check.
And this lack of competition has consequences for how Congress operates, some scholars and analysts say -- such as the creation of an ever more polarized House, with incumbents increasingly insulated from challenges from the other party that would push them to the center. It may also help explain such political puzzles as the impeachment of a president in defiance of the public opinion polls, some say.
It is too early to tell exactly how many districts will have hotly contested races this year, but some analysts predict no more than 35 to 45. In 1998, 94 districts were completely uncontested by a major political party, the highest number since 1958. And many more are contested in name only; in a third of the contested races in 1996, for example, one candidate outspent the other by more than 9 to 1.
The deterrents to running for Congress these days are huge -- the all-consuming nature of modern campaigns, the extraordinary demands of fund-raising, the cost in time and stability to young families and dual career marriages, the slender prospects of defeating an incumbent.
And many campaign strategists say that at the end of the decade, there are special reasons for an ambitious politician to sit it out: Even if that candidate wins, he or she faces the possibility of having to begin all over again in a reconfigured district, with a lot of different voters, after the Congressional districts are redrawn following the 2000 census.
Moreover, in an election like 2000, at the very end of a redistricting cycle, Congressional elections tend to become far more stable; the obvious mismatches and political opportunities -- a liberal congressman representing a conservative district, or vice versa -- have been corrected by the voters by now.
Then there is the current political climate, a time of relative peace and prosperity, with much less anger toward Washington than was bubbling before the great upheaval of 1994, when the Republicans took control of Congress.
"You give me a recession, a gridlocked Congress and a war, and I'll show you candidates coming out the woodwork to run," said Stuart Rothenberg, another Congressional analyst who publishes a political newsletter.
Some analysts say it is to the parties' advantage to contain their field of battle and thus focus their resources on a small number of targets; a net shift of just five seats would change control of the House, meaning that neither party needs to move a lot of seats.
But political scientists say it is hardly healthy for much of the country to be excluded from the battle for the House.
"I think it's a terrible aspect of our politics, if voters are not even offered an opportunity to vote for the party of their choice," said James E. Campbell, professor of political science at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
Thomas E. Mann, an expert on Congress at the Brookings Institution, sees it as an odd tradeoff: After four decades in which the Democrats seemed a permanent majority in the House, the two parties are now nearly evenly matched; the Republican majority of 222 is among the smallest of the century.
So there is intense competition between the two parties, he says; it is simply being brought to bear on a small percentage of the seats, like cold war superpowers vying for a tiny piece of strategic terrain.
Congressional politics has a way of bucking longterm predictions and transforming itself very quickly, and nobody knows how enduring this pattern will be. What is clear is that running a serious race for Congress these days is a series of high hurdles.
And Sandy Maisel, a professor of government at Colby College in Maine, said, "I think the cumulative effect of those deterrents is that high-quality candidates for one reason or another opt out."
 
Money
The Chilling Effect Of Raising Funds
In 1997, in a study financed by the National Science Foundation, Mr. Maisel and Walter J. Stone of the University of Colorado began to survey potential candidates in 200 Congressional districts, trying to determine who runs for office, who does not, and why. Among all the deterrents, from a loss of privacy to a fear of negative advertising, one factor was cited twice as often as any other: having to raise the vast amounts of money necessary to run.
This is particularly true for potential candidates considering a run against incumbents, who nearly always have an easier time raising money. Larry Makinson, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, an independent group that tracks campaign finance, said that the average incumbent had $315,000 in the bank at the end of June, 18 months before the next election. "You've got to be nuts to jump in as a challenger in a situation like that," Mr. Makinson said.
The money factor also has a chilling effect on potential candidates for open seats, which ordinarily invite competition. Even those who decide to take the plunge swallow hard over the money and what it portends.
State Representative Adam Putnam, 25, a political whiz kid who is already in his second term in the Florida Legislature, has estimated that it will take $750,000 to $850,000 to wage his campaign for Congress this year in the 12th District, a seat now held by Representative Charles T. Canady, a Republican who is retiring. And then there's the money that will pour into the district from outside groups, said Mr. Putnam, who is considered the leading Republican in the race.
"It really just gives you heartburn to think about," he said at a restaurant in Bartow not long ago. "Not as much the financial implications as what that message is going to be that these out-of-towners are going to be saying about you or on your behalf, which you have no control over. That's spooky to me."
State Representative Lori Edwards, a 42-year-old Democrat who has won four terms in this region, also saw a campaign for Florida's 12th as a "natural progression" -- at least initially.
The 12th District is a slice of "Old Florida" in the central part of the state, east of Tampa, dotted by lakes and citrus groves and still largely oriented toward agriculture. When she first looked at the race, the money needed to run there seemed "real doable" to Ms. Edwards, who describes herself as solidly middle class: Mr. Canady had never had to spend more than $350,000 on a campaign. But the popular incumbent had managed to avoid a huge television campaign.
As Ms. Edwards began to prepare for the race, she learned this was no longer possible. "All of a sudden the price tag for this race was going up to $1 million," Ms. Edwards said, an assessment not that far off Mr. Putnam's.
On top of that was the prospect of immediate redistricting, at the hands of a State Legislature led by Republicans. "So even if I was elected, not only would I have to turn around and raise $1 million again, but the Republican-controlled State Legislature is not going to be too happy about losing this seat," Ms. Edwards said.
In October, five months after she entered the race, Ms. Edwards withdrew, with money a major factor. "It wasn't even that I didn't think it could be done," she said. "It was because I didn't want to do it. My deepest worry was that after you do all that begging, and after all those people give you all that money, how can you keep your independence? My experience in the State Legislature showed it can be done, but I never had to beg for a million dollars."
Representative Martin Frost of Texas, who for several years was chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said of the money demands: "I'd prefer that it be different, but you play the hand you're dealt. But it does discourage some people from running."
 
Family
Weighing the Cost Of Time and Travel
It was not the money that deterred Joe Hogsett, who considered running for an open seat in Indiana this year. It was the sheer amount of time and energy that it takes to run in a competitive district these days, balanced against the demands of family.
Mr. Hogsett, a 43-year-old Democrat, was no political novice, after six years as Indiana's secretary of state, an unsuccessful Senate race in 1992 and an unsuccessful bid for Congress in 1994. He said he knew what it would take, and he knew it was too much.
"I have a very young family," he said. "My spouse and I have a young son and we hope to add to our family in the future. So ultimately the decision this year weighed what I knew on the one hand were the enormous responsibilities of running for Congress -- the time, the energy, the resources -- with maintaining my obligations as a spouse, as a father, with work, practicing law here in Indianapolis."
Many political professionals say that running a competitive campaign essentially means giving up your job for a year. Then there is the privacy factor, at a time when personal lives are just one more line of inquiry in a political campaign.
Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who for several years was chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said people would tell him: "I don't want the scrutiny. I don't want the divorce I had 20 years ago to be examined. I don't want my kids to go through it."
Even if candidates make it through these pitfalls, they face the complicated task of working in Washington, keeping a strong presence in the district on the weekends, and somehow fitting a family life in between. Representative Anne M. Northup, the Kentucky Republican who heads her party's effort to recruit candidates for the House, said "everybody asks the same questions" and the logistics of family life are at the top of the list.
"When you're looking at candidates who have a lot to offer, one of the reasons they have a lot to offer is because they've carried big responsibilities," Ms. Northup said. "They have a whole demanding life -- jobs, responsibilities -- and there are going to be a lot of people who have to make adjustments if they run."
Mark James, a Republican state senator in Nevada, was another top-tier candidate who was urged to run this year -- against a Democratic freshman who won with less than 50 percent of the vote in 1998 -- but decided he could not because of his family. Mr. James, who is 40, has a 10-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter; he could not see how he could maintain a bicoastal household and spend enough time with them.
"It isn't that I don't want to serve, or don't want to make sacrifices," he said, adding that he would not rule out a race in the future.
And the Dantzlers were torn over whether the difference Mr. Dantzler could make in Washington would be worth the cost in family life. They were a seasoned political family, having lived through a statewide campaign and several high-profile races for the State House and Senate, where Mr. Dantzler had served for 15 years.
But they have a rooted life in Florida, they said. Mrs. Dantzler works as a mental health counselor, the daughters are involved in soccer and theater, their families go back several generations in the state. If he ran and won, the Dantzlers think the family would stay in Florida, at least in the beginning, which would mean a bifurcated life.
"I'm sure that my kids will be fine," Rick Dantzler said as he envisioned that life. "And I'm sure that Julie and I will stay together. But I'm not sure that I want to miss it. The idea of getting on a plane on Monday and coming back on Friday and asking Julie how it was with the girls for the last three days -- ."
On the other hand, he said, "I'm only 43, I enjoy public service and I like to think there's another race in me yet."
He and Julie said they planned to make their decision after the holidays.
 
Consequences
An Electoral Process With Fewer Battles
The sum total of all these personal decisions is less competitive politics, some analysts say. They disagree on how much of that is because of short-term causes -- the peace-and-prosperity political climate, the stable Congressional politics that is often a hallmark of the end of a decade -- and how much is because of deterrents less likely to change, like huge fund-raising requirements and virtually nonstop campaigns.
But some scholars say that whatever the causes, the lack of competition has consequences, particularly when incumbents grow accustomed to it. As Mr. Maisel and Mr. Stone wrote in their study, "Representative democracy depends fundamentally on a competitive electoral process."
In the meantime, some potential candidates are looking elsewhere. Ms. Edwards has decided to run for supervisor of elections in Polk County, Fla. She says it is a good and interesting job where she believes she can make a contribution.
And, she added, "The cost of the race is a manageable one, and the outcome of the race will depend much more on my grass-roots effort, talking to people, shaking hands."
She was clearly looking forward to the coming campaign.
 
Testing Politics
This article is the second of a series that will appear during the election year, exploring the condition of the American political system through the prism of the campaign. Other articles will examine the participation of campaign volunteers and the degree to which the system assimilates new voters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick Dantzler is torn over whether the difference he could make as a congressman in Washington would be worth the cost in Florida where he lives with his wife, Julie, and their daughters, Liz, left, and Margaret. (Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK -- Running for the House, Uncontested"
Many Candidates Run Without Opponents . . .
In 1998, 22% of Congressional candidates ran unopposed, the highest percentage since 1958.
 
Graph tracks percentage of uncontested Congressional races since 1954.
 
. . . and Money Keeps Potential Candidates Away
A survey of 397 potential candidates in 200 Congressional districts conducted by the National Science Foundation, Colby College and the University of Colorado found that the burden of campaign fund-raising was one of the strongest deterrents to running for Congress.
 
PERCENTAGE STRONGLY DISCOURAGED BY:
 
Having to raise large sums of money to finance campaign: %34
Separation from family and friends: %19
Lack of support from political party: %17
Loss of personal and family privacy: %15
Having to endure negative advertising: %12
Loss of personal/family income: %9
Having to give up political career: %8
Loss of leisure time: %5
Negative impact of a losing race on political career: %2
Chance of ending up in the minority party: %1
 
(Sources: Prof. James E. Campbell, State University of New York at Buffalo uncontested seats ; Report to Respondents/Candidate Emergence Study deterrents to running )(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FINANCES; REAPPORTIONMENT US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); BURN INJURIES (72%); IMPEACHMENT (66%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN JULIE DANTZLER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



83 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Home Aides for Elderly in Short Supply

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 2

 BODY:
The booming economy is worsening a severe shortage of the low-wage workers who care for the nation's growing numbers of frail elderly people, health care experts say.
The shortage of home health care nurses and aides and nursing home assistants has deepened in the last two years as better paying jobs with better conditions have opened up for the women who have traditionally filled those positions, which have few benefits as well as low wages. 
 And many in the industry say cuts in Medicare have made the strenuous jobs even more demanding as agencies have made up for reduced income by requiring workers to deliver more care in less time.
Almost every state is grappling with the shortage, according to a national survey conducted this year by North Carolina. New Jersey recently put the recruitment of home health care workers at the top of its list of priorities for elderly care, and states including Florida, Pennsylvania and Maryland have established task forces to study the issue.
In Connecticut and New York, home care trade organizations have also formed task forces to look for ways to find more workers.
Some experts say one solution is to pay home health aides better and treat them with more respect.
"As a nation, if we truly are concerned about our elders, we need to become more concerned about those people who are caring for them on a daily basis," said Andy Van Kleunen, director of work force policy for the Paraprofessional Healthcare Institute, a health advocacy group that has opened three worker-owned home health care agencies, in the South Bronx, New Hampshire and Philadelphia.
As it stands now, even the experts cannot find help when they need it. Mary Mongan, a registered nurse who is vice chairman of the New Hampshire State Council on Aging and a former state health commissioner, knows how to negotiate the health services world as well as anyone. But when her 83-year-old sister-in-law developed cancer three years ago and wanted to stay at home, in Manchester, N.H., Ms. Mongan could not find home health care aides who could provide 24-hour help.
Her sister-in-law was forced to move to Maryland to live with her daughter, Ms. Mongan said. "We couldn't put together enough dependable help," she said. "They didn't have the manpower."
The shortage involves the people, most of them women from their mid-20's to mid-40's, who do basic and often unpleasant and dangerous work -- bathing, feeding, changing diapers, cleaning bedsores, lifting and transferring people in and out of bed -- for the nation's fastest growing population, the very old. And these days, more and more of those workers find they can earn about the same pay at McDonald's, or Target.
With some home health care aides financed by Medicare, the federal health insurance for the elderly, others by Medicaid, the federal insurance for the poor, and even more through private pay, it is difficult to accurately estimate the number of home health care aides.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics puts the figure of aides financed by Medicare and Medicaid at 697,000 in 1996, a number that also includes paid housekeepers.
Tens of thousands of additional home health care workers will be needed in the coming years, experts say, with the number of jobs to be filled expected to increase by 76 percent between 1996 and 2006.
"In a bad economy, when you can't get any other job, and you have a sixth-grade education, being a home health aide is an attractive job," said Carol Keintz, executive director of the Home Health Assembly of New Jersey, a nonprofit trade association. "In a good economy, when Dunkin' Donuts doesn't care if you've got a sixth-grade education, it's tough to find people."
In addition, Ms. Keintz said, fast food restaurants and retail stores like Target offer steady, full-time work, often with benefits.
Home care, with clients whose needs constantly change and with Medicare limiting visits, tends to be part-time and unpredictable.
"Agencies can't say, 'We can promise you a job every day,' " Ms. Keintz said. "Suddenly, five of their patients die, or go to the hospital, and they say to the worker, 'Don't come in today.' "
Here in Philadelphia on Tuesday, Charmane Ellis, 33, had just finished giving Antonietta Mannino, 81, a sponge bath in her small row house.
Now, Ms. Ellis was kneeling before the older woman, pulling on her support stockings, orthopedic shoes and the brace she wears on her right leg. Mrs. Mannino, who once worked in the garment industry, has severe arthritis and has suffered a series of small strokes.
Because Mrs. Mannino just spent a month in the hospital after falling down her front steps, Medicare pays for Ms. Ellis's time.
Mrs. Mannino's husband, Thomas, a retired milkman, died five weeks ago. Talking about him with Ms. Ellis, Mrs. Mannino began to weep. Ms. Ellis stroked her arm. "It's O.K. to cry, Mrs. Mannino," she said.
Ms. Ellis is a certified home health aide with HomeCare Associates, one of Paraprofessional Healthcare's agencies. She earns $7.65 an hour, a little more than average for home health care aides in Philadelphia.
On such wages, plus health insurance, she is raising four children alone in a housing project here.
In an industry where most home health agencies report a 40 percent to 60 percent turnover in aides every year, Charmane Ellis is an anomaly. She has been doing this work for 14 years. For her taking care of the elderly is a calling.
"I feel like this is my thing to do in life," Ms. Ellis said. "It makes me feel appreciated. I figure I'm going to be there one day."
"They're like our founding fathers," she added, talking about her clients. "They have a lot to tell."
Ms. Ellis began her morning with a 45-minute trolley ride, and then a 10-minute walk, to spend an hour bathing and dressing Connie Prendergast, 77, in her row house. Mrs. Prendergast has cancer and is tethered to an oxygen tank 24 hours a day.
When someone dies on her watch, Ms. Ellis said, there is no time to grieve. "They pay you to go on to the next person like they're just a number," she said. "I'm a sensitive person. The aide needs an hour to pull themselves together."
Not all of her clients are appreciative. One or two clients, who were white, made it clear they did not want a black woman touching them, Ms. Ellis said. Other clients are severely cognitively impaired, and one man threw feces at her, she said. She cleaned herself off and went about her job.
After Mrs. Prendergast, Ms. Ellis spent a hurried hour with Mrs. Mannino. She would have had twice as much time a couple of years ago, before the Medicare cuts. With the new constraints, she said, she was unable to make Mrs. Mannino's bed or do the light housecleaning that her job description includes. Mrs. Mannino is too weak to do any of those things. She is fortunate to have family members who can fill in.
Leaving Mrs. Mannino, Ms. Ellis made a 45-minute trolley trip to the home of Emanuel Saunders. Mr. Saunders, a 75-year-old retired truck driver, has Alzheimer's disease. He cannot talk or walk or feed himself. His wife, Lillian, 58, who works in a car assembly plant, and his daughter Kia, 28, greeted Ms. Ellis warmly. With Kia Saunders's help, Ms. Ellis carefully lifted Mr. Saunders from his wheelchair into bed and changed the dressing on his bedsore. His diaper did not need changing this time.
Gertrude Warren is an aide with Paraprofessional Healthcare's agency in the South Bronx, Cooperative Home Care Associates. She is the reason Al Saturn, 92, and his wife Goldye, 91, have been able to remain in the apartment on the Grand Concourse where they have lived for 55 years. Mr. Saturn, who managed sporting goods stores, is severely diabetic. Mrs. Saturn, who used to make hats, suffered two strokes a year ago and is paralyzed on one side.
Now, with the couple's three children scattered around the country, Mrs. Warren, 52, looks after both of them. She went to four stores in the Bronx last month in search of Hanukkah candles for the couple's menorah. You have to love people to do this job, Mrs. Warren said.
All three of Paraprofessional Healthcare's agencies pay 20 percent more than the industry average, provide health benefits and compensate aides for the time they spend traveling to clients. The agencies offer four weeks of training -- the industry norm is 75 hours -- and they try to give their aides full-time work, as well as opportunities for advancement. The agencies, which have won praise from the home health care industry and experts on aging, report job turnover of less than 20 percent.
"In the past, we could always assume there were going to be a lot of low-income men and women out there to do the work," said Mr. Van Kleunen of Paraprofessional Healthcare. "We didn't have to worry about creating good jobs they'd be interested in staying in. If we want to have enough caregivers for the elderly, we're going to have to invest in those caregivers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charmane Ellis, a home aide in Philadelphia, offered support last week to her client Antonietta Mannino, 81. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; MEDICARE; SHORTAGES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); VISITING NURSES (90%); AGING (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); MEDICARE (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA ANTONIETTA MANNINO (79%); CHARMANE ELLIS (71%); CAROL KEINTZ (63%); MARY MONGAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



84 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Proposing a Hudson River Research Institute

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki announced yesterday that he would propose establishing a 500-employee research institute to study the Hudson River, an initiative that several environmental leaders said could represent a milestone in the decades-long struggle to restore the river.
The governor said that the center, to be called the Henry Hudson Institute for Riverine and Estuarine Research and Education, would be modeled after the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute in Massachusetts. 
 "When you think of oceans, you think of Woods Hole," Mr. Pataki said in an interview. "We think we have the potential to do the same when you think about the Hudson River and estuaries."
Previewing part of his State of the State address on Wednesday, Mr. Pataki said he would propose spending up to $1 million this year for a task force that would address such questions as where the institute would be located, how it would be financed and who would control its operations and research. The financing would have to be authorized by the State Legislature. But Mr. Pataki said that he hoped the institute would be up and running in 5 to 10 years with an annual operating budget of about $50 million.
By comparison, Woods Hole has 850 employees and an annual budget of $85 million.
"An idea like this has been discussed for 30 years and never gotten anywhere," said John Cronin, chief advocate of Riverkeeper Inc., a nonprofit conservation group that closely monitors the Hudson River. "This is the first time a governor has proposed this, which is why I think it's going to happen."
Mr. Cronin said that debates over the pace of industrial and residential development along the Hudson are perpetually bogged down by the absence of credible, independent research on the river. "What we don't know about the Hudson is a lot," he said.
With a major research institute unbeholden to either industry or public interest groups, Mr. Cronin suggested, this void could be filled, helping to shape development along the river. Mr. Pataki's initiative, he added, comes at a time when there is an "unprecedented push" to "reindustrialize" the Hudson basin, particularly by utility companies hoping to build power plants along the river.
"This is a substantial, bold proposal," Mr. Cronin said.
Mr. Pataki, a Republican, said he was proposing the institute as a way to build on the advances already made in cleaning up the Hudson, once a struggling ecosystem with a river bottom despoiled by industrial wastes along much of its 275 nautical miles. While the Hudson is cleaner than it has been in decades, parts of it are still contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, cancer-causing industrial chemicals that were dumped for many years by factories in the upper reaches of the river.
"We've made tremendous progress with our environmental initiatives," Mr. Pataki said. "We were thinking, 'What's the next step?' "
The governor said he rejected an early idea to start with a small teaching center, or perhaps an aquarium, and instead urged his environmental aides to "take it to the largest possible vision of what we could have."
While the state would most likely pay a major part of the cost, private foundations, colleges and the Federal government might also be asked to contribute, aides to the governor said. Mr. Pataki has designated John P. Cahill, commissioner of the state's Department of Environmental Conservation, to flesh out the details.
Calling the revival of the Hudson "an incredible opportunity economically," the governor said that the proposed institute could expand and coordinate existing research efforts and provide a firm foundation of science for tapping the Hudson's economic potential.
"We want to be looking to the future and that requires academic research," he said.
At the same time, he added, a "world-class and world-renowned" science center focusing solely on rivers and estuaries could yield important research results with broader benefits for environmental policy makers across the country.
While there are several well-respected oceanographic research centers like Woods Hole and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, which lies on the Hudson, Mr. Pataki said that rivers and estuaries had gotten less attention.
"We just think it is an unbelievable opportunity and the time is right," the governor said.
Ned Sullivan, executive director of Scenic Hudson, an environmental and land trust organization, said Mr. Pataki's plan had the potential "to significantly and dramatically expand the amount of scientific research" into the Hudson, which, he added, remains at risk both from contaminated sediments and a new generation of power plants. Such plants kill fish by drawing them into their intakes, along with cooling water.
"It is particularly long-sighted of the governor to propose establishing an institute that could build a baseline of data about the condition of the river," he said, "so that citizens and policy makers can work together to set long-term goals for improving the quality of the river, cleaning up the toxic threats and restoring the fisheries that have been suffering.
"This project holds real promise for realizing the full potential of the Hudson River." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HUDSON INSTITUTE FOR RIVERINE AND ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HENRY HUDSON INSTITUTE FOR RIVERINE AND ESTUARINE RESEARCH HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON RIVER; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); RIVERS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CANCER (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (65%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (63%); CHLORINE (62%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (60%); CHEMICALS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); POWER PLANTS (50%); 

PERSON: BARSTOW, DAVID; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (75%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



85 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Fiasco in Urban Renewal: A Case Study in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN 

 BODY:
Gennie Phillips, president of the Helpline Soul Rescue Ministry in Brooklyn, said that until two years ago, her group had never fixed up a house or renovated an apartment building.
But that lack of expertise did not stop the group from joining in a federal urban renewal program and buying more than 100 buildings to renovate. And it did not stop the federal government from guaranteeing $20 million that Helpline borrowed to finance the renovations. 
 Thus in 1997, Helpline, which had for years been chiefly involved in drug counseling and food distribution, began to buy and renovate 106 buildings in some of New York City's poorest neighborhoods.
Today, the project is a fiasco. Some of the buildings have had little work done on them; others remain in poor shape, with leaking pipes and peeling plaster. And Helpline has informed the Department of Housing and Urban Development that it cannot make payments on the $20 million in loans.
Ms. Phillips said many of the buildings had not been repaired, Some are still in bad shape, city records show. One four-family apartment building on Essex Street, in Brooklyn, has 612 housing violations, according to the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. They include citations for leaking pipes, peeling plaster and a broken ceiling.
Sorting out what went wrong has not been easy.
Helpline officials said they did not receive proper support either in managing the money or in repairing the property. The bank that lent Helpline the money says responsibility rests solely with Helpline -- and bank officials argue that Helpline was approved to borrow by the federal government. Both HUD's inspector general and New York State's attorney general are trying to find out what happened.
Amid the ruins, though, there is at least widespread agreement on one thing: the Helpline debacle is just one in a series of mistakes that have plagued one of HUD's most problematic efforts at providing affordable and decent housing to poor and working-class families.
The HUD inspector general's office has written a series of reports criticizing the program that Helpline used -- known as the 203(k) loan program, named after a section of federal law. The loans under that program, which are made by banks, pay for the purchase and repair of dilapidated housing. HUD promises to repay the loans if the borrower cannot.
"The program is still a very risky one" for the government, said Nancy Cooper, a HUD deputy inspector general, who has written a report that detailed the program's problems.
The 203(k) program has provided loan guarantees for individuals and nonprofit groups seeking to renovate housing since 1978. But the program was not well known until 1996, when HUD streamlined application requirements and began advertising the 203(k) loans. Then it exploded -- HUD insured $400 million in such loans in 1996 and $3.6 billion last year.
Criticism has grown with use. The General Accounting Office -- Congress's investigative arm -- reported last year that HUD had to make good on $8 million in 203(k) loans in 1998, and predicted mounting losses in coming years.
A big chunk of those losses are expected to come from the Helpline project. Most of the loans are in default, and HUD predicts that $19 million worth will go bad.
HUD's own inspector general has said the program is vulnerable to errors and fraud. But HUD officials say the program is a crucial element in rehabilitating urban areas.
And senior HUD officials say it is unfair to condemn the entire program because of infrequent mistakes.
"This program does a lot of good," said William C. Apgar, HUD's assistant secretary for housing. "We can focus on the loans that went bad, or the 95 out of 100 loans that go well."
Investigators say the 203(k) program is risky by nature, mainly because it provides extra money for repairs. The repair work opens the door for fraud and for costly mistakes in estimating the costs and in ensuring the work is done properly.
To protect the program, HUD sets minimum experience levels for nonprofit groups that want to participate. Its rules say nonprofit groups must have at least two years' experience in providing housing for low- and moderate-income people.
Helpline was certified to participate in the program in 1996. Ms. Phillips said the group never claimed to have experience in housing construction. She said Helpline had assisted people in finding housing but had no experience in construction or renovation work.
Ms. Phillips said Helpline submitted a proposal to HUD that described its experience. She added that "we may have told them we had experience with housing, but in a general way."
"We were not experienced in this, but certainly we were told we would be able to learn as we go with the bank in this program," Ms. Phillips said, referring to the assistance she said Helpline expected from the lender. Bank officials said they regularly offered education programs to all borrowers in the 203(k) program.
HUD officials confirmed that Helpline was certified to participate in the program. They said the required experience did not have to include construction or rehabilitation.
"It could include housing education, housing counseling," said Chris Walz, a HUD spokesman. "It could include service for people in getting them connected with housing."
Mr. Walz said HUD was now considering whether it should increase the experience requirement, or restrict the amount of money that inexperienced groups can borrow.
In a report last summer, the General Accounting Office found that nonprofit agencies with little or no housing experience were often approved for 203(k) loans.
"A concern we ran into was the experience, expertise and resources that nonprofits bring to the program," said Stan Czerwinski, a General Accounting Office official, who supervised preparation of the report, which did not examine the Helpline loans. He said auditors found other cases in which nonprofit groups with no experience were allowed to borrow, typically to buy a small number of properties. He said HUD did not have the staff to check the background of nonprofit groups.
A HUD manager in the Denver office, which is responsible for programs in 17 states, told General Accounting Office investigators that the Denver office did not have enough travel money to monitor any of the housing programs it supervised.
"We have really ramped up our monitoring activity," said Mr. Apgar, the assistant secretary. He said HUD did four times as many loan reviews in 1998 as it did in 1997. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; HELPLINE HELPLINE SOUL RESCUE MINISTRY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; HELPLINE HELPLINE SOUL RESCUE MINISTRY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FINANCES; CREDIT URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (64%); CASE STUDIES (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN GENNIE PHILLIPS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



86 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
War Is Heating Up On Second Chechnya Front
While attention has been focused on the attempt by Russian troops to take the Chechen capital from Islamic militants, fighting has been growing near the mountains of southern Chechnya. A1
 
Israel-Syria Talks to Begin
Israeli and Syrian leaders enter knottier terrain today as they resume American-brokered negotiations ambitiously aimed at reaching a peace accord by the summer. American, Syrian and Israeli officials have been careful to dampen expectations that the talks would produce anything concrete. A1 

A Twist in War Crimes Debate
A report of the international tribunal in the Hague that is dealing with possible war crimes in Kosovo may have a bearing on American concern about whether an international criminal court prosecutes American soldiers abroad. The United States supports the tribunal but has opposed creating a permanent international criminal court. A6
 
Russian Confident of Victory
A top aide to Russia's acting president, Vladimir V. Putin, said that it is all but impossible for Mr. Putin to lose the presidential election tentatively set for March. Mr. Putin's staff suggested that he is so confident of victory that he will do little traditional campaigning. A4
 
Religious Clashes in Egypt
A dispute between a Muslim vendor and a Coptic Christian shopkeeper in a village about 250 miles south of Cairo led to rioting and fighting in two villages, with a eight deaths, officials said. A8
 
Menem Still in the Spotlight
Carlos Saul Menem, the former president of Argentina who has been out of power for barely three weeks, is acting as if he were still president. He holds "shadow cabinet" meetings with his former aides, and has started an effort to form an international extension of his party to spread its populist ideology worldwide. A10
 
Taiwan Party to Quit Business
Lien Chan, Taiwan's vice president and a presidential candidate, pledged that the governing Nationalist Party would quit its business empire and called on other parties to follow suit. The Nationalist Party, one of the wealthiest political parties in the world, made profits of $382 million in 1998. (Reuters)
 
Expatriates Go to Polls
Bosnian Croats waited in front of the Croatian Embassy in Sarajevo yesterday to elect Croatia's new parliament. Balloting by about 350,000 Croats living outside their homeland began a day before voting in Croatia. A loss by the nationalist Croatian Democratic Union could lead to warmer ties with the West. (Associated Press)
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
Elizabeth Dole to Support Bush for President
Elizabeth Dole, who ended her bid for the presidency after citing problems competing for cash with George W. Bush, plans to endorse the Texas governor tomorrow, Republican officials said. A14
 
Shortage of Care for Elderly
The strong economy is making it still harder to address a severe shortage of low-paid people willing to care for the nation's frail elderly people. "It's easier work to go to Arby's than to go into your house and give your dad a bath," said an official of one health care trade association. A1
 
Refugees Being Repatriated
The United States Coast Guard began shipping back more than 400 Haitians, Dominicans and Chinese whose boat ran aground about a mile off the Florida coast on Friday. They were being returned to Haiti, where their voyage began. A15
 
Rights of Inmates With H.I.V.
The Clinton administration has urged the Supreme Court not to hear an appeal in a discrimination case brought on behalf of the hundreds of H.I.V.-positive prisoners who are in the Alabama prison system. Those inmates are barred from educational and recreational programs and even from religious services where they might mix with the general prison population. The justices will decide this month whether to hear the appeal. A15
 
THE YEAR 2000 A16
 
Y2K Experts Moving On
The cost of preparing for Year 2000 computer problems has been estimated over $250 billion. But most of the work has ended, and now many software experts find themselves returning to what they were doing before, which in some cases is unemployment. A1
 
Auction of Web Address
The World Wide Web address year2000.com has attracted two bids of $10 million, but the site's owners are waiting to see if the offers are bona fide. Until now the site has been used to provide information on the Year 2000 computer problem. The address business.com sold in November for a record price, exceeding $7.5 million. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Progress in Plan to Get Former Coast Guard Base
Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani have agreed on a plan to redevelop Governors Island with a hotel and conference center, stores, apartments, parkland and a branch of at least one major American museum, state officials said. The agreement advances a campaign to persuade the federal government to give New York exclusive rights to own and develop the island. A1
 
New Louima Trial to Begin
A trial opening today may shed new light on the brutalization of Abner Louima in a Brooklyn police station. Three officers are charged with obstructing justice by conspiring to cover up the role of one of them, Charles Schwarz, who was convicted in the attack. B1
 
Hudson River Institute Sought
Gov. George E. Pataki announced that he would propose establishing a 500-employee research institute to study the Hudson River. The initiative, which several environmental leaders said could represent a significant milestone in the decades-long struggle to restore the river, will be proposed in the governor's State of the State address on Wednesday. B1
 
Bloody Start to New Year
Five people were killed in four attacks on Saturday. The victims included a man who was shot in the hallway of a Harlem apartment building and a Queens livery cab driver who the police said was killed by a couple who also robbed him. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
ARTS E1-10
 
A Blockbuster Year for Movies
Last year was the second consecutive record year at the nation's box offices. Exhibitor Relations, which monitors box-office performance, estimates that Americans spent $7.5 billion on movie tickets in 1999, an increase of 8 percent from 1998. E1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-8
 
Pyrrhic Victory for Jets
The Jets beat the Seattle Seahawks, 19-9, but the seventh victory in nine games was not enough to put the team in the playoffs. D1
 
Giants Lose to Cowboys
Dallas defeated the Giants, 26-18, to claim the final wild-card berth in the National Football Conference. D1
 
Flyers Outscore Islanders
The Islanders lost to Philadelphia, 4-1, putting them last in the Atlantic Division with a 9-22-5 record. D7
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt Jr.
The chief of naval operations in the early 1970's who ordered the Navy to end racial discrimination and demeaning restrictions on sailors, he was 79. A17
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Vacancy in Israel Avoided
Jacob Frenkel, the chief of Israel's central bank, agreed to stay on the job another week while Prime Minister Ehud Barak looks for a successor. Mr. Frenkel was to have stepped down yesterday. C12
 
Bank Pursuing Divestiture Plan
Deutsche Bank said that it intended to sell its 15 percent stake in Philipp Holzmann, the German builder that just avoided bankruptcy. Deutsche said the sale was part of its long-term strategy to divest itself of industrial holdings. C6
 
A Stronger Euro Predicted
Wim Duisenberg, the president of the European Central Bank, said that he expected the euro to rise against the dollar this year as the European economy grows faster than that of the United States. Mr. Duisenberg said he did not expect the euro to fall below $1. C6
 
An Outcry for Beanies
Collectors of Beanie Babies told Ty Inc., the maker of the dolls, this weekend in an Internet vote to keep making the toys. Ty previously said that it would retire the toys, but then announced that it would let consumers decide in a vote. C2
 
Bad News for Tax Cheats
New technology being designed for the I.R.S. to improve service to consumers most likely will also make it harder by the middle of the decade to cheat on federal and state taxes. The technology is being developed at a time when changes at the I.R.S. have made cheating easier. C1
 
Newspaper Pays Off a Debt
The company that publishes The St. Petersburg Times has paid off a $30 million debt to the nonprofit institute that owns it. C13
 
Business Digest C1
 
YEAR-END TABLES C17-26
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: New York's closed primary; the wisdom of Y2K planning; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the feel of a rope.
 
Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E10
 
Public Lives A12
 
Crossword E10
 
TV Listings E9
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather D4
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CROATIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (83%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (83%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CROATIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); POLITICS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RIOTS (66%); RETAILERS (65%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); ELIZABETH DOLE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



87 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Final Chapter: Single-Minded, Full-Steam Run at a Global Agenda

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For much of his presidency, Bill Clinton's own aides have frequently complained that his attention to foreign policy was sporadic. The trait got him in trouble in Bosnia, and often resulted in some nasty surprises -- from the defeat of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty last fall to a tear-gas-filled week in Seattle that badly damaged his global economic agenda.
But some of his biggest victories in 1999 were also scored abroad, from the air campaign over Serbia that largely halted ethnic bloodshed to the Northern Ireland accord that offers the first prospect of peace there. 
 And now Mr. Clinton's aides describe a president who has determined -- for reasons as practical as political reality and as personal as the emptiness of his residence -- to make foreign policy the focus of his last 12 months in office.
It is the one arena where he believes he can continue to wield power as two major political campaigns -- one starring his wife, the other his vice president -- take more and more of the spotlight, his aides say. And it is an escape from a White House that a close adviser calls "a very lonely place these days."
Mr. Clinton's schedule calls for a stream of trips, each casting him in a different role: peacemaker, international financial architect and missionary seeking converts to American-style democratic capitalism.
He starts this week by shuttling in and out of Shepherdstown, W.Va., by helicopter to coax Israel and Syria toward what could be a peace accord as important as Camp David.
But that will be only the opening in a blur of diplomacy -- driven by his desire to avoid looking like a lame duck, and fueled by his determination to make up for time lost during the impeachment battle.
"He never uses the word 'legacy' but he talks about it all the time," one of his longtime friends said.
Others say Mr. Clinton is driven to look abroad in part because there is little reason to stay in Washington. While there is still a chance of a deal with Republicans on Medicare, the president has told aides that the likelihood is fading.
Meanwhile, Hillary Rodham Clinton is making one of the most public early departures from the White House by any first lady in anticipation of a possible run for the Senate. She is moving the family's scant collection of furnishings to a new house in Chappaqua, N.Y., a place where few expect the president to spend much time next year.
Chelsea Clinton has accompanied her father on two major foreign trips in the last four months, but she has a life of her own at Stanford University. The president's associates describe him as eager not to rattle around the White House alone.
"He's happier on the road," said one cabinet member who has accompanied the president on several recent trips, ticking off the possible stops in 2000: India, Nigeria, Okinawa, several destinations in Europe, a possible trip to Russia after the March election of a new president there, and perhaps even a visit to a place about which he spent much of his youth debating: Vietnam.
"He can't campaign for Gore," the cabinet member said during a holiday party, referring to the vice president's effort to distance himself from Mr. Clinton. "Fund-raising is a chore. But he's come to love the puzzle of the geopolitics."
If so, it was a love that took time to kindle. But since this past August, when he interrupted his vacation with regular morning calls to Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and other Middle East leaders, Mr. Clinton has acted like a man in a race against time to bring about a final settlement with the Palestinians and, now, with Syria.
Starting on Monday in Shepherdstown, he will once again insert himself into the negotiations. Dipping in and out of the talks at strategic moments, aides say, Mr. Clinton is expected to play a critical role, both coaxing the two sides and offering American financial and technological assistance to Israel and Syria as they negotiate over mutual security arrangements that would be part of the return of the Golan Heights.
White House aides say Mr. Clinton has blocked out most of the next two weeks for the negotiations, and he is prepared for another round in February if Shepherdstown proves inconclusive.
But any deal that calls for an increase in American aid to Israel or the beginning of financial assistance to Syria -- probably a total in the billions of dollars over the next few years -- would require Congressional approval. In an election year, that could prove tricky, and Mr. Clinton's recent track record, as evidenced by the defeat of the test ban treaty, is hardly reassuring.
Moreover, a vote on the Middle East aid package, if an accord is reached, could come at roughly the same time as a vote on granting China permanent trade status, part of the deal under which it is to enter the World Trade Organization.
The issues are completely different, and so are the constituencies pressing for passage. But both will be difficult votes, and some in the White House are quietly questioning if Mr. Clinton has the clout to prevail in two major foreign policy votes, both in an election year.
The China vote may become the most visible symbol of two other aspects of Mr. Clinton's foreign policy legacy. It will determine whether he has any claim to have changed the nature of America's influence on the world's most populous nation. And it will be a major test of whether his signature effort to redefine America's role in the world -- through a strategy of economic integration and globalization -- can recover from the damage done in Seattle.
Both will be uphill battles.
Mr. Clinton has argued that if China is inside the World Trade Organization, which sets global trading rules, the world will have a far better chance of influencing its behavior.
But the same groups that took to the streets of Seattle, arguing that the trade organization places the priorities of trade above those of workers' rights and human rights, have vowed to block permanent trade status for China. Mr. Clinton's biggest argument will be with his own party, not with Republicans, especially as Democratic candidates in November try to maintain the party's traditional constituencies that support these two causes.
And the Republican leadership, relishing the opportunity to embarrass Vice President Gore, has already hinted that it would seek to delay the vote several months so that a fractious split among the Democrats will occur in the midst of the presidential campaign.
The President's advisers vow to press on. "I don't think there was lasting damage from Seattle," Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative and chief architect of both the successful China negotiations and the Seattle fiasco, said in an interview before Washington emptied out for the holidays. "The reality is that the W.T.O. will continue to function and global trade will continue to grow. So we'll go full bore."
Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, himself a former trade lawyer, expressed similar optimism that the setback is temporary. In retrospect, he said, the divisions between developing countries and wealthy countries, and between Europe, Japan and the United States, make it "hard for this to congeal -- in hindsight, even without the people outside" breaking windows and blocking Seattle's streets.
Mr. Clinton himself made the problem far worse at Seattle. By announcing that he ultimately wanted to make labor and environmental standards a part of all trade agreements, he cemented the opposition from developing nations, especially India, that are convinced that the United States is trying to rig the system to its advantage. That issue, along with peace with Pakistan, would probably dominate Mr. Clinton's tentative trip to India, which he would like to take in March.
Those, of course, are the predictable problems Mr. Clinton will face abroad.
Among the unpredictable, though, are his two biggest nuclear challenges -- defusing the India-Pakistan confrontation and taming North Korea -- are both situations that could veer into crisis at any moment.
So could Russia, where the administration is seeing how Boris N. Yeltsin's resignation and designation of an heir apparent plays out while pulling back on its early enthusiasm for spending large sums to convert Russia to capitalism. In the next three months, each decision to extend or withhold aid will inevitably be seen in Russia as an indicator of Washington's attitude about the acting President, Vladimir V. Putin, whether it is really intended to be or not.
"It's plenty," one of Mr. Clinton's aides said this week, "to keep him going all year."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton will attempt to coax Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara, left, and Israel's prime minister, Ehud Barak, into an accord. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SYRIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (66%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SYRIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POLITICS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); IMPEACHMENT (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (57%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



88 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
An End Run Around Tax On Cigarettes

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
DOCTORS and scientists are thrilled with New York's new tax on cigarettes, and with good reason. Once the higher tax kicks in, cigarettes in New York will be more expensive than anywhere else in the country. The price will inevitably turn some smokers into nonsmokers and deter many young people from ever picking up one of those noxious weeds.
But the medical community and lawmakers who approved the new tax aren't the only ones cheering. 
 So is Larry Ballagh, proprietor of a smoke shop on an Indian reservation in Irving, near Buffalo. Customers at his shop do not pay taxes, so the State Legislature has made him one happy fellow. "God bless them," said Mr. Ballagh, a member of the Seneca nation. "Every time they do it, more people come," he said, referring to the Legislature's decision to raise the tax. "I guess there is some indication that an increase in prices does encourage a certain number of people to quit, which may be a good thing. But New York State taxes make our product more attractive."
It would seem so. The folks at the Shinnecock Smoke Shop in Southampton recently bought a full-page ad in The New York Post illustrated with an Indian in feathered headdress. And the Web is crowded with cigarette come-ons. Just one site --
webmaster@discount-cigarettes.org/ -- lists screen after screen of vendors, from BigIndian.com to SmokemCheap.com.
All, from the small mom-and-pop operation to the established business enterprise, undersell traditional stores by at least $10, selling top brands for $22.35 to $24.99 a carton (plus $1.50 for shipping).
One regular customer of an Indian smoke store in Shirley, Long Island, where several smoke shops dot suburban streets, stocks up every month. "It's a big saving," he said. "Why not?"
Non-Indians are supposed to pay state and local taxes in reservation shops, but they do not, and now the Internet brings the tax-free benefits of reservation shopping to smokers without cars.
With the tax soon almost doubling to $1.11 a pack, cigarettes will cost more in New York than anywhere else in the country: about $4 a pack and $42 a carton in New York City. The incentive to find bargains will be greater than ever -- as will the incentive to provide those bargains.
Hence a few troubling predictions along with the happy ones about declines in smoking: that the higher price will energize Internet, mail order and reservation sales, as well as the already healthy black market in cigarettes smuggled in from other states. People with conventional stores in Binghamton and other towns near Pennsylvania, where the taxes are lower, worry about losing customers.
Nobody keeps reliable statistics, but estimates are that tax-free sales online and in reservation shops now account for a very small percentage of cigarette sales. The same for the black market. But there are signs of growth.
According to the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, states with the highest cigarette taxes in 1998 were losing $100 million a year in potential tax revenues to smuggling. After Maryland raised its tax last year to 66 cents a pack from 36 cents, state authorities said that in three months, they made more arrests for cigarette smuggling (nine) than in the entire previous year (five). In previous years, when New York raised taxes much higher than neighboring states, truckloads of cigarettes were smuggled in from states with lower taxes.
THE new tax is to help to finance health care coverage for up to one million uninsured New Yorkers. If too many sales go untaxed, then what?
"Good things are going to happen for the uninsured, but we are concerned about uncollected taxes," said John McCardle, a spokesman for the Republican majority in the State Senate. "It's a mixed bag."
Joseph Conway, spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki's budget division, said that the budget office considered uncollected taxes and potential declines in smoking in its calculations. He said details would have to wait until the governor's budget presentation later this month.
Dr. K. Michael Cummings, with the State Department of Health's Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo, said what matters is that cigarette smoking will decline. "Yes, there are people who will buy on the Internet and on Indian reservations, but a big proportion? No. Will the tax have a deterrent effect on cigarette smoking? Yes."
Cigarette sales declined elsewhere when taxes went up. Nobody can say with certainty, though, whether those figures represented fewer smokers, or more enterprising shoppers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TAXATION; INDIANS, AMERICAN TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TOBACCO STORES (90%); SMOKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); SMUGGLING (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (75%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (75%); RETAILERS (75%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); SUBURBS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



89 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL AND SYRIA MEET TODAY IN U.S. ON TANGLED ISSUES

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Having done little more than break the ice in their first encounter last month, Israeli and Syrian leaders enter knottier terrain on Monday as they resume American-brokered negotiations ambitiously aimed at reaching a peace accord by the summer.
The mere fact of their meeting was achievement enough when the Israelis and the Syrians revived their peace effort in December after a four-year stalemate. This time the two sides will be forced to tackle directly the tangle of issues that have bedeviled their previous efforts at peacemaking: borders, security and the opening of normal relations. 
 But Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara of Syria, both of whom left today for the United States, have agreed to lock themselves and their delegations away with American mediators in a West Virginia hotel for the next week to 10 days, trying to demonstrate determination to overcome their differences.
American, Syrian and Israeli officials have been careful to damp expectations that the talks will produce anything concrete, and Israeli officials distanced themselves from earlier assessments that a general declaration of principles or some kind of written document would emerge.
Still, Mr. Barak's departing words as he left Ben-Gurion Airport near Tel Aviv made clear that he saw his trip as significant enough to be placed in the context of history.
"Here on this runway Menachem Begin took off to Camp David, and this is where he returned from Camp David," Mr. Barak said, invoking the legacy of the prime minister who made peace with Egypt 20 years ago.
"And here from this runway Yitzhak Rabin took off to bring peace with Jordan, and thereafter with the Palestinians," Mr. Barak said, referring to the assassinated prime minister who was his mentor.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright today described the renewed negotiations as "a huge historic opportunity," but she declined to predict how many rounds of talks it might take to reach an agreement.
Reflecting the dour public posture that Damascus has taken since talks resumed last month, Syria's official newspaper expressed pointed doubts. "The outcome of the first round does not give us reason to be optimistic," the daily Al Thawra said.
But Mr. Barak's goal is clear. And in recent weeks he has started to build a case for why Israelis should coalesce to support a withdrawal from the Golan Heights -- the sine qua non of a Syrian-Israeli accord.
It is a mixed message, combining scare tactics with appeals to a battle-scarred nation's yearnings for peace. But it presumes that the negotiations, to be held at a hotel in Shepherdstown, W.Va., will bear fruit in the next few months.
On one hand, Mr. Barak dreams aloud of a near-utopia if the peace effort succeeds: not only an end to battle but harmony in the Middle East, "unprecedented economic growth" in Israel and a "sky high" international image for his country. On the other, he warns of violent cataclysm if it fails.
Mr. Barak has also tried to lure Israelis with the prospect of bringing Israeli soldiers home from southern Lebanon by summer, even of shortening the compulsory three-year military service. Israeli officials disclosed this week by means of leaks that the prime minister had approved a plan to withdraw from Lebanon, which is controlled by Syria, as soon as April if the atmosphere in the negotiations is positive.
Trying to revive an old-fashioned Zionist righteousness, Mr. Barak has also appealed to "this generation" to be unselfish enough to make sacrifices that will benefit the next.
"The price of even the most successful war is immeasurably more expensive than the price of peace, no matter how heavy," he wrote this weekend in a rare published message to the nation. "So we must not be deterred from this decision. At the moment of truth, Israel will discover its courage for the sake of peace and security. This will be the complete triumph of Zionism, its pinnacle and realization."
Mr. Barak has scrupulously avoided public discussion of the issues that will be on the table in this week's high-level talks. Instead, already strategizing for a national referendum on peace -- in which he is expected to enlist American consultants as during his election campaign -- he aims to focus Israelis on the grand picture.
But the details are what will sit between Mr. Barak and Mr. Shara when they meet behind very closed doors at the Shepherdstown Clarion Hotel, 68 miles from Washington.
Israeli officials were describing "Sing-Sing" or "siege" conditions for the negotiators, who will be prevented from entering or leaving at will to create an airtight -- and leakproof -- diplomatic environment. And while depriving Israelis of their cellular phones is tantamount to cutting off a critical life support mechanism, the rules of the game will require them to turn the phones off.
It is unclear if Mr. Barak will stay put or come and go. Several world political leaders, including Russia's recently resigned president, Boris N. Yeltsin, are expected to pass through Israel when they travel to Bethlehem later this week for an Orthodox Christmas celebration organized by the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat.
Mr. Barak will be accompanied to the United States by a delegation of about 25 negotiators, including Tourism Minister Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, who held negotiations with the Syrian Army leader when he was Israel's army chief of staff in the mid-1990's, and Foreign Minister David Levy.
As in December, Mr. Shara will represent President Hafez el-Assad, 69, who is considered too weak to travel and reluctant to do so at this stage.
After a welcome by President Clinton, the Israelis and the Syrians are expected to break into working groups. American officials will assist the sides whenever they are called on, but the goal will be to get them talking directly to each other.
Mr. Barak's office said security and water would be discussed before the thorny issue of borders, but the Syrians have maintained that the issue of borders is paramount and must come first.
Syria demands the full return of the Golan Heights, which Israel captured during the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, down to the June 4, 1967, border. They see that border as reaching the shoreline of the Sea of Galilee. While Israel appears ready to concede territory, it is unwilling to withdraw beyond the international border established in 1923.
The difference is a few square miles, what Mr. Barak has called "a stone's throw," but it is a crucially located few miles, and the dispute has stymied the negotiations for years.
To avoid getting bogged down and to better assess Syria's flexibility on another issue, Mr. Barak prefers to start with a discussion of security issues. The Israelis would demand an internationally run monitoring station on Mount Hermon, on the new Israeli-Syrian border. Israelis have long insisted that there should be an Israeli force in that station, a proposal the Syrians reject entirely.
The Syrians reportedly prefer a satellite and aerial inspection system, according to accounts in several Arab newspapers. They hope to convince Mr. Barak, a former general, that warning stations on the ground would provide inferior intelligence to aerial systems.
Israel and Syria will also negotiate the deployment of Syrian troops and their proximity to the border.
"In the next week or 10 days, we will learn a lot about their readiness to accept our security demands," said Cabinet Minister Haim Ramon.
In his campaign for public opinion, Prime Minister Barak has received a direct assist from President Ezer Weizman, who is expected to stay neutral. Endorsing a withdrawal from the Golan Heights, Mr. Weizman has called this a critical juncture in which "peace has to come before everything else."
If an agreement is reached but a peace referendum fails an Israeli national vote, Mr. Weizman said he would "go home." When rightists protested that he should be the president of everyone and not take sides, Mr. Weizman shrugged and said that was "too hard."
Protesting Mr. Barak's "campaign of propaganda," Uzi Landau, a Likud Party legislator, called on fellow members of the opposition to reveal "the throwing of sand in the eyes." Some, indeed, have criticized the way that former generals, colleagues of Mr. Barak, are now reassessing the strategic value of the Golan Heights, which was long considered an invaluable geographic defense against Syrian aggression.
"Was it all a fraud?" Emmanuel Halperin, who anchors a television news program, asked a former general, Ori Orr, recently. "Was it 30 years of brainwashing? Were the opinions of all those American generals who said the Golan was indispensable to Israel's survival completely invalid?"
And even some ardent members of the peace camp have questioned the eagerness of many Israelis to accept a new reality overnight. Eitan Haber, a former senior aide to Mr. Rabin, responded to Mr. Barak's constant praise of Mr. Assad and to a glowing account in an Israeli newspaper from a reporter who sneaked into Syria.
"Suddenly it turns out that the Syrian dictator, Hafez Assad, is a brave, visionary, intelligent leader, a pursuer of peace, a great man and a real sweetheart," Mr. Haber wrote in a newspaper column. "And the Syrian people? Darlings. Damascus is wonderful. Generations of Syrians have been praying for nothing but peace. Every morning they wake up to the sound of 'Hatikva,' " the Israeli anthem, "and kiss the picture of Theodore Herzl."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: West Virginia state troopers outside the Shepherdstown Clarion Hotel, site of today's Middle East talks, reviewed security measures yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; SYRIA (99%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); ASSASSINATION (70%); 

PERSON: SONTAG, DEBORAH; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); SHARA, FAROUK AL- (MIN) EHUD BARAK (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



90 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 17;Column 2;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN THE MARKETS;
The Race toUnderwrite Nearly Sets a Record

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
On Wall Street, the 1990's ended in a virtual dead heat.
The total amount of money raised in the United States by investment banks, $2.1 trillion, almost reached the record amount raised in 1998. And the total number of stock and bond offerings in American markets -- 17,030 -- also fell just shy of 1998's total, according to Thomson Financial/Securities Data. 
 Still, in many ways, 1999 was a phenomenal year that will be remembered on Wall Street mostly for its feverish market for first-time stock offerings and for the era of European mega-mergers it ushered in. "It was a pretty extraordinary year in a whole bunch of respects," said Mark Tercek, co-head of the stock-underwriting business at the Goldman Sachs Group.
Never before had investors pumped so much money into shares of companies selling stock for the first time, many of them technology-based start-ups that had not earned a nickel of profit. Never before had the shares of so many newly public companies proceeded to soar, routinely doubling and often tripling from their offering prices.
Previous years are linked in the minds of many investors to the spectacular debuts of particular companies: Netscape in 1995, Yahoo in 1996, eBay in 1998. But 1999 was so chock-full of stock offerings that rose like rockets, it is likely to be remembered for its strength and breadth, rather than for specific success stories.
"The powerful aftermarket performance has been in the tech, telecom and media area," said Richard Kauffman, managing director of stock underwriting at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company. "If a company is outside that area, it is very hard to get deals done."
As is usually the case, at least 90 cents of every dollar raised from investors came through sales of bonds, but the $2 trillion American bond market drew relatively scant attention. Certainly, it was a year in which technology stocks reigned and almost all other investments got short shrift.
"It is truly a reflection that this whole notion about this new economy that everyone's talking about, is, in fact, real," said Alan Sheriff, managing director of stock underwriting at Credit Suisse First Boston. To understand just how much the sands have shifted, Mr. Sheriff said, "Don't just look at what deals got done, look at what didn't get done."
With the exception of a small number of big stock offerings by blue-chip corporations, such as United Parcel Service's $5.47 billion initial public offering, traditional industries barely tapped the American stock market in 1999. In general, investment bankers wanted to sell stock for two kinds of companies: dominant, extremely profitable franchises or anything with a dot-com attached to it.
Two investment banks separated themselves from the competition, underwriting plenty of both kinds of stocks. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company ran neck-and-neck all year as the leading managers of stock offerings, which yield considerably bigger fees than bond offerings do.
In the end, Goldman, Sachs came out ahead, raising $33.7 billion to Morgan Stanley's $32.7 billion. Goldman's own initial public offering, which raised $3.66 billion in May and transformed the last big private partnership on Wall Street, made the difference.
Merrill Lynch & Company, the perennial leader in total underwriting, though not this year in fees, ranked a distant third in stock underwriting with $17.8 billion, followed closely by Credit Suisse First Boston. Powered by the technology banking team it hired away from Deutsche Bank, First Boston became a formidable competitor to the biggest investment banks in stock underwriting. First Boston managed 111 offerings that raised $15 billion last year, up from just $4.5 billion in 34 offerings in 1998.
Merrill again was the dominant underwriter of bonds, raising $299 billion through more than 1,800 offerings in a year that was disrupted by concerns about whether the coming of the year 2000 would alter investor behavior.
Jim Quigley, head of Merrill's global debt-origination business, said corporate borrowers rushed to issue bonds, in some cases in mammoth offerings, in the first half of the year out of fear that demand would dry up as the year-end approached. For their part, investors stored up cash with the hope of swooping in on bargains created by the anticipated dislocation in bond markets, he said.
"In the fourth quarter, people realized that that investment strategy was somewhat flawed and they had to fast-forward their investment plans," Mr. Quigley said. "Those fears really dissipated and money started coming back in the marketplace. We finished the year pretty strong."
Mr. Quigley said he expected that strength to carry into January, as some borrowers rushed to sell bonds before the Federal Reserve Board meets again in early February. The Fed governors are widely expected to raise interest rates again at that meeting.
Mark Siegel, the head of Morgan Stanley's bond-underwriting business, said the most notable development in 1999 was the speed with which corporations, such as Ford Motor and DuPont, were able to sell billions of dollars' worth of bonds to investors around the world. In one case last fall, he said, Morgan Stanley rounded up buyers for $7 billion of DuPont bonds in 24 hours.
"That's a great example of the tremendous liquidity in the market," Mr. Siegel said. "The fourth quarter was the slowest quarter of the year in terms of new-issue volume but activity didn't fall off a cliff as some were expecting."
Mr. Siegel said an ongoing boom in corporate mergers and acquisitions should continue to fuel activity in the bond markets. "Some borrowers have pent-up financing needs that they've delayed because of concerns over Y2K," he said.
Throughout the year, Morgan Stanley and Goldman, Sachs also battled with Merrill for the crown in mergers and acquisitions. Each of the three New York-based firms advised on deals announced in 1999 with a combined value of more than $1 trillion.
Goldman ranked first, with 417 deals globally, worth $1.3 trillion. Morgan Stanley edged out Merrill Lynch, with each advising on deals worth about $1.1 trillion.
As long as the economies in Europe and the United States remain healthy, merger activity is likely to continue unabated, said Steven Heller, the head of Goldman's mergers business. "It is hard to find a geographic or industry sector that will not be active" in 2000, he said.
A wave of mergers swept across Europe in 1999, some of them leaping across national borders and others having a distinctly American, hostile flavor to them. At year-end, Vodafone AirTouch, a British telecommunications company, was pressing an unsolicited $148 billion bid for Mannesmann of Germany. Goldman is Vodafone's main adviser and Morgan Stanley and Merrill are among the firms advising Mannesmann on its defense.
Jack Levy, the head of Merrill's mergers business, predicted that 2000 would be a much bigger year for mergers. "The celestial bodies are all going to be in alignment this year for a very, very active merger business," he said.
One big factor, Mr. Levy said, will be the pressure some American companies will feel to complete acquisitions before accounting rule changes eliminate transactions structured as "poolings of interests," in which the acquiring company simply combines the other company's financial statements. Mr. Levy said he also expected financial-services companies to take advantage of recent changes in laws that have kept banks, investment banks and insurance companies out of one another's businesses for decades.
All told, investment banks took in about $3.23 billion in fees for advising on mergers that were consummated in 1999, up about 11 percent from $2.9 billion in 1998, according to Securities Data. That came on top of $12.1 billion in disclosed fees from underwriting sales of stock and bonds.
Morgan Stanley came out ahead of Goldman, Sachs in fees from underwriting that were reported to Securities Data, taking in about $1.9 billion, compared with about $1.75 billion for Goldman, Sachs. Merrill Lynch, which ranked third with $1.5 billion in fees, was the only one of the top five firms to take in less in fees for underwriting last year than in 1998.
Those standings demonstrate how much more lucrative it is to underwrite stocks than bonds. Investment banks receive as much as 7 percent of the proceeds from initial public offerings of stock, compared with fractions of 1 percent of the proceeds from big corporate bond offerings.
That is why investment bankers are cheering for a continuation of the boom in initial stock offerings and are happy to see newly public technology companies lining up to sell more stock in follow-on offerings. "There could be more I.P.O.'s this year than last year," said Mr. Tercek of Goldman. "But we think there could be more volume done on the follow-on side. It's going to be the follow-ons that make or break those companies."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Monday ranking the top 10 brokerage firms for 1999 by disclosed fees for underwriting corporate securities misstated the figure for Deutsche Bank. It was $363 million, not $636 million.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Appetite for Stock Keeps Growing"
Graph tracks the amount of money raised each year through the public and private sale of stock in the United States since 1990.
(Source: Thomson Financial/Securities Data)(pg. C17)
 
Chart: "Leading Underwriters"
The 10 leading underwriters of corporate securities in the United States in 1999 for three separate categories. The lead manager is given credit for the entire issue.
(Source: Thompson Financial/Securities Data)(pg. C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); UPS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BONDS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (89%); BOND ISSUES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MERGERS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); SHERIFFS (60%); 

PERSON: JIM QUIGLEY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000



91 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: A Good Year for Family Fireworks Company

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
New Year's business was very, very good for Fireworks by Grucci, the pyrotechnics company in Brookhaven, N.Y., that the Grucci family has run for 130 years.
"This was probably the most important entertainment date in the history of the world," said M. Philip Butler, who is married to a Grucci daughter, Donna, and insists his title is chief operating brother-in-law. 
 It certainly was an important date in the history of Grucci. Typically, the Fourth of July is the big occasion for fireworks, with New Year's Eve a puny also-ran. But that was not the case last Friday.
Grucci, the highest-profile and most expensive of the country's fireworks providers, took in about $2.1 million for July 4, 1999; its revenue on Friday topped $3 million -- six times the amount the company pulled in on New Year's Eve in 1998. That year, it ran 12 fireworks shows; on Friday, it set off fireworks displays at 31 different places, places as disparate as the harbor in Dublin, private homes in the Hamptons and Jamaica, the Atlantis Casino on Paradise Island in the Bahamas and the exclusive Yellowstone ski club in Montana. It even lit up the Washington Monument.
Long-time clients, like the city of Honolulu, which would normally order a $30,000 show, paid $50,000 and more. And although Grucci did not raise its prices for the day, it refused to accept new clients who wanted to spend less than $100,000. "People doubled and tripled their budgets," Mr. Butler said.
They did get more for their money. Last year, Mr. Butler said, most clients were happy with 4-inch shells that would yield a display of 120 feet or so in diameter. This year, far more wanted 6-inch shells, which exploded into a 200-foot light show.
Delivering all the glitz was no mean feat. All year, Grucci had sent out feelers, through its Web site and by word of mouth, to lure the 100 extra technicians it knew it would need. Perhaps because Grucci paid them well over the $200 a technician would normally get for a few hours of holiday-night work, more than enough people came in for training.
To hear Mr. Butler tell it, all the programs went off without a hitch. There was one "annoyance," though, he said: In Washington, the schedule called for a short light show at midnight, followed by a longer one at 12:55 a.m., after another concert. On Saturday, several newspapers reported that the first show had been truncated by a computer problem.
"We didn't have one glitch, yet we were perceived as having a Y2K problem," Mr. Butler said.
The fireworks industry had reason to set off celebratory fireworks of its own. According to Mr. Butler, the industry's sales have been soaring since 1993. Corporations are using fireworks as a promotional tool, while rich individuals -- and, Mr. Butler notes, there are many more of them today than there were when the decade was young -- use them to make their parties special.
"It's the economy, pure and simple," Mr. Butler said. In the 1980's, he noted, some 70 percent of the company's revenues came from local governments putting on a show for the citizenry; today, 80 percent of the money is corporate or private.
Will the fireworks boom end now that the millennium hoopla has ended? Not if the economy keeps steaming along, Mr. Butler said.
"There'll be the 'first Labor Day of the 21st Century,' the 'first birthday of the 21st century,' any number of reasons to throw a show," Mr. Butler said. "As long as there's wealth, there will be people wanting to add some bang to their parties."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fireworks by Grucci, the family-run company in Brookhaven, N.Y., put on 31 fireworks displays to celebrate the new year, up from 12 shows a year ago. One of the shows took place at the Washington Monument. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (75%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIREWORKS BY GRUCCI FIREWORKS BY GRUCCI INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIREWORKS BY GRUCCI

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (75%); MONTANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIREWORKS; NEW YEAR; FINANCES; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); WASHINGTON MONUMENT; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDEPENDENCE DAY (US) (JULY 4) US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); BUDGETS (76%); SKIING (73%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



92 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Factories and Industries Continue Their Expansion

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
United States manufacturing expanded for the 11th consecutive month in December, and more companies reported paying higher prices for materials.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said today that its factory index was 55.5 last month, holding above 50 for the 11th time since January. That means more businesses reported improved conditions. December's reading was lower than November's 56.2, reflecting a slowdown in new orders and inventories. 
 "Even though the overall index was down, it's still so far ahead of break-even it shows the manufacturing side of the economy retains considerable momentum," said Ken Mayland, chief economist at KeyCorp in Cleveland.
Bonds and most stocks fell on expectations that Federal Reserve policy makers will push up interest rates to keep inflation in check.
The association's index of prices paid rose to 65.7 in December from 65.3 in November, indicating more companies reported price increases.
The overall National Association of Purchasing Management factory index has been above 50 since February, after declining in December 1998 to 45.3, the lowest reading since May 1991 when the economy was emerging from the last recession.
Prices manufacturers pay for some of the raw materials used to produce their goods have been rising for several months. Chief among them is oil. Since reaching a low last year of $11.37 a barrel in mid-February, crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange have more than doubled.
Crude for February delivery rose last week to $26.82 a barrel, near a nine-year high of $27.07 a barrel set Nov. 22.
Prices also have risen for metals, especially aluminum and copper used in manufacturing, and a variety of chemicals.
The December National Association of Purchasing Management price index was nonetheless below the October peak of 69.4, the highest in more than four years. "Prices paid for goods continue to rise, but at least they aren't accelerating," said Joel L. Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
The drop in the association index was largely the result of a slower pace of domestic and export orders. The new orders index fell to 55.5 in December from 59.9 in November. The December level was the lowest since July. The export index, a gauge of international demand, fell to 53.4 in December from 54.5 in November.
The inventory index, a gauge of pent-up demand, fell to 47.2 in December -- the lowest in four months -- from 50 in November. The production index rose to 58.7 in December from 57.4 during November.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (59%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (59%); KEYCORP (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (77%); FUTURES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



93 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Prices Fall Amid Concern Fed Will Raise Rates

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices fell sharply yesterday on the first trading day of the new year. As investor fears about the Year 2000 problem eased, they were replaced with a new one: that the Federal Reserve will begin raising interest rates aggressively.
Bonds came under pressure early, falling victim to the selling of issues bought as a safe haven before the changeover to 2000, sending yields to their highest levels in more than two years. Yields inched higher when the National Association of Purchasing Management's index of factory activity showed it had expanded for the 11th month in a row, and an index of prices paid by manufacturers rose. 
 The price of the 30-year bond posted its biggest decline since May, dropping 1 23/32, to 93 20/32, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.62 percent from 6.48 percent on Friday.
Yesterday's purchasing report provided more evidence of a strong economy and raised concern that the Fed, which meets next month, would increase short-term rates to keep the economy's nine-year expansion from causing inflation to accelerate.
Thomas E. Donne, vice president and senior portfolio manager at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said that the overall fundamental issues regarding the economy were still fine and that consumer confidence remained high for the right reasons. That indicates continued economic growth of more than 4 percent in the first quarter, he said.
Mr. Donne said he thought the Fed had been holding back on raising rates in case any Year 2000 problems emerged. But with the smooth transition, companies will continue strong capital spending in technology, he said.
"The market appears to be en route to pricing a 50-basis-point move by the Fed in the first quarter. Some futures market participants feel it will come in two 25-basis point moves, while others think it could happen in one step," he said.
"Also," he added, "people expect that the Fed will begin to take back all that extra liquidity it provided the market in anticipation of the millennium turn in the fourth quarter. And just as they provided that liquidity gradually they will likely withdraw it slowly."
Another factor dwelling on the market was improved global economic performance, Mr. Donne said. That will make non-United States assets more appealing than they have been recently. Yesterday, the dollar fell against the euro and the Japanese yen, which Mr. Donne said produced a more balanced distribution of global investment dollars. That kept many foreign investors from buying United States securities.
The market is now waiting for employment numbers on Friday, with many market watchers expecting the average number of jobs added to the economy to come in at 240,000. The 12-month moving average has been just more than 225,000 a month, an indication of strong economic expansion.
"Pyschologically, last year was not a good year for bonds in the face of the strong stock market," Mr. Donne said. "Asset allocations could be a factor now."
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.645	97.176	High Rate	5.36%	5.58%	Investment Rate	5.52%	5.84%	Low Rate	5.30%	5.47%	Median Rate	5.36%	5.55%	Total applied for	$30,529,102	$25,055,163	Accepted	$12,571,648	$10,452,663	Noncompetitive	$1,284,872	$1,139,073	
 
Both issues are dated Jan. 6, 2000. The three-month bills mature on April 6, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on July 6, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks the average discounted rate, at weekly auction, of 3-Month Treasury Bills for the past four months.
(Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NEW YEAR; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EURO (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT THOMAS E DONNE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



94 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A struggling J. C. Penney begins a search for a new agency to handle its $110 million account.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
FOR the last month, Madison Avenue has been wondering whether holiday sales results would set off significant shifts in the advertising plans of the myriad dot-com start-up retailers, particularly those that poured vast sums into campaigns to attract shoppers.
As it turned out, the first big change of the post-Christmas period is being made by a bricks-and-mortar retailer, the J. C. Penney Company, rather than an upstart dot-com. Penney, which has been struggling to improve the performance of its 1,150 department stores in an increasingly competitive retail field, is dismissing its agency, Temerlin McClain in Irving, Tex., after almost nine years. 
 The dismissal comes before Penney and other traditional retailers announce holiday shopping results. But analysts said they expected the company to continue its recent disappointments and also lag its primary rival, Sears, Roebuck & Company. Sales have declined for Penney, the nation's fifth largest retailer, as have earnings, and in December Penney reduced its quarterly common-stock dividend for the first time in 40 years. Tellingly, Sears has just revamped its own ad plans, arranging for its two principal agencies to collaborate on a national campaign for the first time.
The Penney decision puts into play an account with billings estimated at $110 million to $115 million, out of a total budget for Penney estimated at $300 million. That figure includes ads like preprinted circulars, which Temerlin McClain does not produce.
Temerlin McClain has handled assignments for Penney since the summer of 1991 like the creation of national corporate campaigns carrying themes including "The best place to spend this holiday season," "Doing it right" and "The look. Look who." Media buying has been handled by Mediavest in New York, part of the MacManus Group.
Temerlin McClain's hold on the Penney account, one of its largest, has been slipping as the client continued to encounter difficulties in finding a niche between specialty chains like Gap, operated by Gap Inc., and discounters like Wal-Mart Stores and the Target unit of Dayton Hudson.
In the last year, Temerlin McClain lost two important Penney tasks to the Dallas office of DDB Worldwide, owned by the Omnicom Group. One was the Arizona Jeans account, for the denim duds sold under that brand name at Penney stores, and the other was the Penney home lines account. Each assignment had billings estimated at $20 million.
"J. C. Penney is a company with a lot of potential," Dennis McClain, chief executive and executive creative director at Temerlin McClain, part of True North Communications, said yesterday, confirming a report about the review in the trade publication Advertising Age, "and we had a great relationship for many years."
"But there have been tremendous management changes," he added, "and the business was not what we'd all like it to be. This was a move they felt they had to make in terms of getting their house in order."
Mr. McClain described the Penney decision to place its account in review and not ask Temerlin McClain to take part as "mutually agreed upon," adding that he was formally notified by the retailer yesterday.
"We're sad to lose any major piece of business," Mr. McClain said, "but changes happen when things aren't working right."
Penney accounted for about 10 percent of Temerlin McClain's annual revenue of $80 million. About 100 of the agency's 700 employees have worked on Penney assignments in some fashion; of the 100, 32 to 37 are considered the core group.
"There will be some modest reduction in staff," Mr. McClain said, "but this will not amount to a tremendous economic issue for us." The agency will continue creating campaigns for the St. John's Bay line of apparel sold in Penney stores.
Mr. McClain said he was told by Penney executives that True North would be "invited to participate" in the review "as a holding company, putting together a group to pursue the business" that would not include Temerlin McClain. Among other True North agencies are the Bozell Group and FCB Worldwide.
Kathryn Woods, a spokeswoman in New York for True North, said the agency company had not heard from Penney but "would welcome the opportunity to participate" in the review. Pat Sloan, a spokeswoman in New York for DDB, said, "If asked, we'd be happy to participate."
Stephanie Brown, a spokeswoman for Penney, which is based in Plano, Tex., said she could not identify the agencies being asked to take part in the review, which is to be completed in March. "Temerlin McClain has been greatly valued for its contributions," she added, but "it's time for a change."
The decision to "hold a review came after several months of careful consideration regarding the needs of our business," Ms. Brown said, adding that the successor to Temerlin McClain would handle that agency's duties as well as tasks like media planning and buying.
Temerlin McClain won its Penney assignments from what is now the N. W. Ayer & Partners unit of MacManus, which had worked for the retailer since 1983. A major makeover for Penney in the 1980's, emphasizing clothing and home furnishings rather than mass merchandise like appliances, helped sales throughout most of the 1980's; Ayer conveyed that in campaigns carrying the theme "Fashion comes to life." However, in the early 1990's, when Penney sales slumped during the recession, Ayer became a casualty.
And for those who keep track of such things, the Penney Internet retailing operation (www.jcpenney .com) came in 19th among the 20 most-visited shopping Web sites from Nov. 14 to Dec. 26, according to Media Metrix, a market research company. Penney was the only bricks-and-mortar department store on the list.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); GPS (NYSE) (84%); TGT (NYSE) (72%); IPG (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (72%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PENNEY, J C, CO; TEMERLIN MCCLAIN J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); GAP INC (84%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (83%); TARGET CORP (72%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENNEY, J C, CO; TEMERLIN MCCLAIN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); TEXAS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MARKETING PLAN (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); STARTUPS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMMON STOCK (67%); BUDGETS (65%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART DENNIS MCCLAIN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



95 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: American Leadership at the U.N.

 BODY:
This month is America's turn to preside over the United Nations Security Council. That duty rotates among the body's 15 members. While the powers of the council presidency are limited, the job involves close coordination with Secretary General Kofi Annan and considerable control over the council's agenda. Washington can use this opportunity to press for action on a global front.
Richard Holbrooke, the United States' permanent representative, properly wants to make the long-neglected problems of Africa a theme of his tenure as council president. But while doing so, he must also work on trouble spots like Iraq, Kosovo and East Timor, where timely U.N. action is imperative. 
 Mr. Holbrooke encountered African issues like ethnic persecution, brutal civil war and AIDS firsthand on a recent visit to the continent. On his return, he announced plans to hold council sessions on such strife-torn countries as Burundi, Congo and Sierra Leone. He also wants to devote at least one session to the social and economic devastation wrought by AIDS, especially in southern Africa. Those sessions are welcome and appropriate, although past United Nations debates on Africa have offered little more than pious talk.
But other, non-African issues also demand the council's attention. In Iraq, the first steps must be taken to put a hard-won new Security Council resolution on arms inspections into effect. Mr. Holbrooke needs to ensure that an independent and credible chief is chosen for the new arms inspection agency that will be created. He also ought to urge France and Russia to persuade Saddam Hussein to accept the resolution. It offers the prospect of suspending some economic sanctions in return for cooperating with the monitoring.
In Kosovo, start-up problems that have plagued U.N. administrators, particularly in policing, have to be addressed before they become intractable. Mr. Holbrooke, who knows the Balkans well, should help Bernard Kouchner, who directs U.N. operations in Kosovo, get the political backing from U.N. headquarters that he needs to succeed. Mr. Holbrooke should also prod European governments to follow through on their financial commitments to the Kosovo operation and urge all countries to live up to their commitments to provide volunteers for the international police force there.
In Indonesia, some 100,000 East Timorese refugees are still being terrorized by pro-Indonesian militias in West Timor. Mr. Holbrooke, who played a firsthand part last summer in persuading Jakarta to accept a more active U.N. role in Timor, can now help press Indonesia's new democratic government and its military leaders to disarm those militias and let the refugees return home.
After a long period of estrangement between the United States and the United Nations, the elements are now in place for a more constructive relationship. Congress has at last agreed on a plan to pay most of America's back dues. Mr. Annan is showing himself to be one of the bolder leaders to hold the secretary general's job in recent years, raising the U.N.'s public profile and helping to restore its reputation with the release of self-critical reports on past failings in Bosnia and Rwanda.
Mr. Holbrooke brings political clout and diplomatic skills to the job of American representative. This month is the Clinton administration's last chance to preside over the Security Council and America's first chance to shape the international diplomacy of a new millennium. Mr. Holbrooke should make bold use of this opportunity. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOSOVO (94%); INDONESIA (93%); AFRICA (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); IRAQ (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); EUROPE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (70%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOSOVO (94%); INDONESIA (93%); AFRICA (93%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); IRAQ (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); EUROPE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (70%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (89%); BERNARD KOUCHNER (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



96 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Lehman Hires Former Salomon Analyst

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. named David Shulman, the former chief equity strategist at Salomon Brothers Inc. who lost his job in 1997 after years of being incorrectly bearish on the United States stock market, as senior real estate investment trust equity analyst.
Mr. Shulman, 56, will report to Steven Hash, who was Lehman's top REIT analyst before being promoted to director of United States equity research last year for the concern, the fourth-largest United States securities firm. Mr. Shulman started covering the real estate industry in 1986 while at Salomon Brothers. 
 Since January 1998, Mr. Shulman has been with Ulysses Management, where he was an investment manager for two private funds.
Mr. Shulman was ousted from Salomon Brothers after the firm merged with Smith Barney He was known for his longstanding pessimistic view of United States stocks and saying Asian economies were much worse than many believed.
In his last weekly strategy note for Salomon in December 1997, Mr. Shulman said he remained bearish and that the Dow Jones industrial average could fall to 6,600 to 7,000, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stox index could drop to between 770 and 815.
The Dow Jones average closed yesterday at 11,357.51, while the S.& P. 500 ended at 1,455.22. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (53%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (97%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (93%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (53%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STOCK INDEXES (93%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); 

PERSON: SHULMAN, DAVID DAVID SHULMAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



97 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazil Having Second Thoughts About Foreign Bank Inroads

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Perhaps no trend has made its mark on Sao Paulo's changing cityscape more than the proliferation of foreign-owned banks. After a wave of takeovers and heavy investments in recent years, many Brazilian banks have been nudged aside by institutions with un-Portuguese sounding names, like Santander, HSBC and BankBoston.
However, the growth of these banks -- with their colorful nameplates, billboard advertisements and increasing clout in this nation's financial services industry -- is coming under criticism. Fearful of the encroachment of foreign financial institutions, some of Brazil's most powerful bankers are urging the government to limit the power of foreign financial institutions. 
 "The richest countries of the world are wise enough to realize that national interests coincide with a strong, domestically led financial system," said Fernao Bracher, a former central bank president who now heads Banco BBA-Creditanstalt, a Sao Paulo bank with Austrian shareholders, though majority owned by Brazilians. "Why should Brazil, a developing country, be run roughshod over?"
A reminder of the foreign banking industry's expansion in Brazil came today with news that the government had approved a request by the Bank of New York, one of the biggest and oldest banks in the United States, to purchase a controlling interest inCredibanco, a Sao Paulo bank with large corporate lending and asset management operations. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed, but the Bank of New York had owned 50 percent of Credibanco for some time.
Much of the simmering debate over limiting foreign banks has to do with the privatization planned for later this year of Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo, one of the country's largest banks. Institutions as diverse as Citigroup's Citibank unit, and Banco Bradesco, the largest Brazilian bank not owned by the government, have shown interest in buying Banespa, as the bank is called.
After the central government said last month that it would authorize foreign institutions to bid for Banespa, domestic competitors grew nervous. According to local reports, they began a behind-the-scenes lobbying effort to ensure that foreigners would be limited in trying to buy Banespa by, for instance, being forced to bid in a consortium controlled by a Brazilian partner.
Their reasoning is based on what they view as excessive foreign bank incursions in recent years. There have been multibillion-dollar acquisitions by Britain's Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, a unit of HSBC Holdings, and ABN-Amro, the Dutch giant. Other institutions, notably Spanish banks like Banco Santander Central Hispano and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, have also made large forays into Brazil's financial system.
"The foreigners have extremely deep pockets," said Paul Bydalek, the president of Atlantic Rating, a Brazilian banking analysis company. "They don't necessarily understand the nuances of Brazil's magnificent chaos."
Essentially, this means that Brazilian banks tend, in some instances, to support the stability of the financial system in times of crisis. For instance, in the tumult that followed the devaluation of the currency nearly a year ago, some foreign banks counseled their clients to avoid purchasing Brazilian government bonds and other securities, citing the risk of default.
Yet the largest Brazilian banks, such as Bradesco and Banco Itau, continued to refinance government bonds much as they had done during the last several decades. In fact, the Brazilian institutions that buy more than 90 percent of the country's domestic bonds made out well in 1999 since most of these securities were linked to the dollar or to interest rates, which remained high for most of the year.
There are signs that the government is acknowledging this type of argument. "Foreign banks could cause a problem in not wanting to roll over our debt so some type of ceiling on their share of the system might be a good idea," Rubens Barbosa, Brazil's ambassador to the United States, said in a telephone interview.
Advocates of opening the banking system to greater foreign participation say this thinking is misguided and exaggerates the influence of foreign banks in Brazil's economy. Foreign banks account for about 30 percent of banking assets in Brazil, but they account for more than half of assets in neighboring Argentina, where privatization and deregulation have been carried out to a larger degree.
"I think it is pure self-interest in avoiding competition," said Gustavo Franco, a former president of the central bank who was responsible for engineering Brazil's opening of the financial system to foreign investment in the 1990's.
"Ask the consumer if he prefers a foreign or Brazilian bank and you'll be told his choice is the one which provides the best service," Mr. Franco said.
The debate surrounding foreign banks is largely limited to the area of consumer banking, which provides clients with services like checking and savings accounts. In the more exclusive world of investment banking, foreign institutions have made enormous inroads in Brazil, including the purchase of the country's leading investment bank, Garantia, by the Credit Suisse Group.
Whereas two or three years ago Brazilian investment banks like Garantia or Banco Pactual of Rio de Janeiro dominated areas like trading equities on the Sao Paulo stock exchange, or underwriting stock and bond issues for Brazilian companies, today foreign banks account for much of these business areas.
This trend shows few signs of letting up, as reflected in the Bank of New York deal for Credibanco.
After the deal is completed, 53 of the 118 banks in Brazil that are not controlled by the government, whether in the areas of consumer or investment banking, will be foreign-owned.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); HSBA (LSE) (74%); HSB (PAR) (74%); HBC (NYSE) (74%); 0005 (HKSE) (74%); SANT (LIS) (74%); SANT (BIT) (74%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (74%); SAN (NYSE) (74%); SAN (MCE) (74%); SAN (BMV) (74%); BNC (LSE) (74%); ABO (ASX) (58%); BVA (LSE) (58%); BBVA (NYSE) (58%); BBVA (MCE) (58%); BBVA (BMV) (58%); BBDC3 (BOVESPA) (58%); BBD (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (77%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK; CREDIBANCO; BANCO DO ESTADO DO SAO PAULO BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BANCO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO SA (BANESPA) (83%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (74%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (74%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (58%); BANCO BRADESCO SA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK; CREDIBANCO; BANCO DO ESTADO DO SAO PAULO

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (77%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; PRIVATIZATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); TRENDS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); LOBBYING (70%); APPROVALS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (57%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



98 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Minority Program Aids Firm Run by White Men

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 3

 BODY:
An investigation ordered by City Hall has found that a major beneficiary of a program intended to help entrepreneurs outside the old-boy network is a company run by a white former union official and his sons.
Like many other big cities, Chicago reserves 25 percent of its contracts for businesses run by women or members of racial minorities. One of the big winners under the set-aside program has been a janitorial business, Windy City Maintenance, which lists its chief as Patricia Green. The city awarded the company tens of millions of dollars in contracts during the 90's. 
 But the investigation found that the company is being run by Ms. Green's husband, John Duff Jr., a former vice president of the Allied Distillery and Wine Workers International Union, and their two sons -- scarcely the kind of outsiders the program is designed to help.
The investigation was ordered after The Chicago Tribune reported in July that Mr. Duff and his sons were running the company. The newspaper said the Duff family controlled businesses that reaped $100 million in city contracts in the 1990's. Mr. Duff served 17 months in prison in the early 1980's for embezzling union funds.
Lawyers at City Hall said on Friday, in announcing the findings of the investigation, that Windy City Maintenance had been stripped of its status as a woman-run company and would lose its contract within 60 days. City officials also said they would monitor businesses that claimed to be run by women and minorities, to guard against fraud.
A spokeswoman for Windy City said today that no one would comment on the matter.
Mayor Richard M. Daley, who has sought to portray fairness to minorities as a hallmark of his administration, will speak about the Duff case at a news conference on Tuesday, aides said. Mr. Daley's support among blacks is considered softer than his rock-solid white base, so the mayor has been careful to guard against anything that would stir resentment among minority voters.
The set-aside program has been seen as a potentially dangerous issue for Mr. Daley, especially if it seems that white men are taking advantage of programs intended to help women and minorities.
Mayor Daley last week announced a program to recruit more companies owned by women and minorities, especially blacks, to do business with the city. Some black aldermen have complained that only 9 percent of the $1.3 billion in contracts awarded by the city through September 1998 have gone to blacks.
Mr. Daley, who said he agreed that the percentage of blacks getting city business was too low, said "the pool has to be expanded in some way." The mayor named Barbara Lumpkin, the city treasurer, to head a task force to determine the best way to find more minority-run companies.
Until now, city officials have simply accepted the word of companies that say they are run by women or minorities, said Jacqueline Heard, a spokeswoman for the mayor.
"We've had to rely on the integrity of the companies we do business with," Ms. Heard said.
But now, to guard against fraud, city officials will conduct on-site checks at the companies and talk to customers to make sure that businesses are complying with the law.
Ms. Heard said Windy City had been deserving of its status as women-run until recently. "It was in fact owned and operated by a woman," she said, adding that company officials still insisted that Ms. Green was the head of the business.
But Ms. Heard said it was clear to city officials that Ms. Green had stepped down from her day-to-day management of Windy City and largely handed over business responsibilities to her sons.
That transfer of power has made Windy City ineligible to retain its status as a women-run business, Ms. Heard said.
For the Daley administration, the problem with the set-aside program was a rare setback. Less than a year after his latest landslide election victory, Mr. Daley commands overwhelming support with the 50-member City Council.
In its report, The Chicago Tribune said that the Duff family and enterprises they control had contributed more than $30,000 to Mayor Daley's campaigns. The newspaper said the Duffs had played host to at least two fund-raisers for the mayor, including a breakfast last February attended by Mr. Daley.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WINDY CITY MAINTENANCE (CHICAGO CO) WINDY CITY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: WINDY CITY MAINTENANCE (CHICAGO CO) WINDY CITY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; MINORITIES (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; WOMEN; BLACKS; ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CITIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MEN (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); MAYORS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); WOMEN (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (73%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (72%); EMBEZZLEMENT (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); LAWYERS (67%); TRENDS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); ETHICS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); DUFF, JOHN JR RICHARD M DALEY (93%); JOHN DUFF JR (88%); PATRICIA GREEN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



99 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Few Year 2000 Glitches Are Reported on First Working Day

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Year 2000 computer glitches began appearing as much of the world headed back to work yesterday after the New Year's holiday, but they remained scattered and, for the most part, trivial.
The nation's financial institutions, including the New York Stock Exchange, opened Year 2000 trading without a hitch. The relatively smooth sailing continued not just in the United States, which spent over $100 billion on Year 2000 preparations, according to government estimates, but also in foreign nations that had spent far less. 
 "We're seeing that there were no threatening effects in the companies," Salvador Bellido, vice president of the Spanish Confederation of Medium and Small Businesses, told the news agency Europa Press. "We're beginning to think that all this has been set up for someone's benefit. I don't know if it was Bill Gates or who," he added, referring to Microsoft's chief executive.
As they have been doing ever since the rollover to 2000 occurred on Saturday with no major disruptions, computer experts and government officials repeated their convictions that testing in recent years had amply proved that the threat had been real. They also said that the similar outcomes around the world for such varying investments were not surprising once the different levels of dependence on computer technology were taken into account.
Basic services like power, telephones and water run with little or no help from computers in many countries, said Bruce W. McConnell, director of the International Y2K Cooperation Center, the United Nations-sponsored Year 2000 information clearinghouse in Washington. And late starters at home and overseas benefited from the experience of others. "It was possible to catch up with a modest expenditure because the tools had become very efficient," Mr. McConnell said.
In addition, where computers are used overseas, they are often older systems with much simpler programming and fewer links to other equipment, making repairs simpler, according to the Gartner Group, an information technology consulting firm in Stamford, Conn.
But Mr. McConnell and others monitoring Year 2000 incidents said the continuing good news did not close the books on Year 2000 risks. He cited as an example the unknown status of government systems in numerous developing countries. "We haven't seen their payrolls run yet," he said.
Others cautioned that even in the United States, things have not been going quite as flawlessly as the public reports to date might suggest. Gartner Group said it had received confidential reports of about 400 Year 2000 flaws by midafternoon, mostly among midsized and smaller clients and nearly all of them fixed within hours of their discovery.
"That's a significant increase over yesterday, about 50 percent," said Louis Marcoccio, Gartner's Year 2000 research director.
Many of the flaws showing up are too silly to even be irritating. For a time Vice President Al Gore's Town Hall Web page (www.algore2000
.com) informed visitors it was Jan. 3, 19100 if they arrived via a Netscape browser and Jan. 3, 192000 if they came to the site using Microsoft's Internet Explorer. An automated selection program of a telephone service that reads The New York Times and other newspapers to blind New Yorkers informed clients they would be hearing the Jan. 3, 1900, issue.
But some problems reflect the kind of flaws that consultants fear could put pressure on some computer users as the days go by. One electronics company told Gartner that it had discovered a Year 2000 error that generated faulty orders. It caught the mistake before any shipments went astray but not before the bad data had been sent to a larger database including records used for other activities like telemarketing.
"It's going to take several days to clean up the database," Mr. Marcoccio said. "Meanwhile, they have set up a temporary database to handle orders and they will eventually have to go back and mix the two."
Mr. Marcoccio said his concerns about small business were reinforced yesterday morning when he visited his dentist in suburban Boston and encountered an apparent Year 2000 problem. He was the first patient of 2000, and when the secretary tried to set up his next appointment, the computer system crashed. Efforts to get it started generated error messages suggesting that some patient records may have been destroyed, he added.
Over all, though, Gartner and others say the news continued to be encouraging. The Tokyo stock exchange, which was closed yesterday, opened without trouble this morning. Hubs in the distribution system like McKesson HBOC, a San Francisco-based pharmaceutical distributor, reported no problems with orders and shipments. Industrial giants like General Motors began manufacturing with no discernible hitches.
"It's definitely looking good," said Jeffrey Cripps, who has overseen DaimlerChrysler's Year 2000 interactions with its many suppliers.
One problem cited by government officials yesterday morning as potentially critical prevented kidney dialysis equipment manufactured by Gambros, a Swedish company, from running through an automated cleaning cycle at the end of the day. But that failure was actually discovered during testing Saturday in Scotland in two models that are not sold in the United States, according to Tim Schoenberg, a Gambros spokesman in Aliso Viejo, Calif., who added that no patients had been harmed and that it was easily circumvented.
Perhaps the most widely reported problem over the weekend -- the failure Friday night of a ground station that processes information from military satellites -- was put to rest when the Pentagon reported it was operating normally today.
John A. Koskinen, chairman of the President's Council on Year 2000 Conversion, said he did not expect any of the disruptions likely to arise from here on to be broad enough to have any impact on the national economy.
Other signs of growing confidence included a trickle of consumers returning propane heaters and other devices purchased as insurance against disruptions to Home Depot, Sears Roebuck and other retailers. Sears is charging 20 percent of the cost for "restocking." Charity groups like Second Harvest began collecting food donations from consumers who had decided they no longer needed some of the food supplies they had put aside.
Susan Earl, director of development for the Second Harvest chapter in Nashville, said, "The calls started coming in right after we arrived at 9 a.m."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Financial markets in the United States ran smoothly yesterday. David Gurney, a director of floor operations for the New York Stock Exchange, monitored activity on the year's first day of trading. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); NEW YEAR; STOCKS AND BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); BONDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J AL GORE (58%); BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



100 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks Begin The New Year On Mixed Note

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks began the new year with a topsy-turvy performance yesterday, as technology and Internet shares bolted to new records even as broad swaths of the market slumped in the wake of a sharp rise in long-term interest rates.
Observers who only note the closing quotes for major market averages would probably comment that the Nasdaq composite index continued to perform as it did throughout much of December, when it rose in what seemed like a straight line. 
 Indeed, the Nasdaq, which ended 1999 with a record, did so again yesterday. Led by companies like JDS Uniphase, Yahoo and CMGI, the index gained 61.84 points, or 1.52 percent, to 4,131.15.
But the road to the close was bumpy.
Within minutes of the opening, the Nasdaq was up more than 122, to as high as 4,192.19. The index then reversed and fell as low as 3,989.71 -- a swing of 202.48.
By contrast, the performance of the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was more consistent: both measures moved lower shortly after the opening bell, and stayed down throughout the session.
The bond market's bad day hit financial service stocks particularly hard as investors feared the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates now that Year 2000 computer glitches have not materialized.
The Dow closed at 11,357.51, down 139.61 points, or 1.21 percent. American Express, General Electric and J. P. Morgan were the Dow's biggest losers. Cyclical stocks like Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing and Alcoa -- companies whose businesses are also sensitive to rising rates -- also registered declines.
Weakness in bank and brokerage stocks, as well as oil and big retailers helped to drag down the S.& P. 500 index by 14.03 points, or 0.95 percent, to 1,455.22.
And the Russell 2000 index of smaller cap stocks was also hammered. The index fell 8.33 points, or 1.65 percent, to 496.42.
"It is very difficult to back out an investment thesis from today's session, even though the backup in bond yields was dramatic," said Satya Pradhuman, director of small cap research at Merrill Lynch & Co.
"Some of this might be an unwinding of the fast run-up we saw last week."
Indeed, while many spent much of December worrying the Federal Reserve would move to raise short-term interest rates at its February meeting, nearly as many said they expected to see investors take advantage of the strong move in December stock prices and take some profits early in the new year, thereby delaying capital gains taxes until 2001.
"An awful lot of people have expected tremendous tax selling," said Fred Kobrick, president and chief executive of Kobrick Funds, a Boston-based mutual fund company.
Despite the big swings in prices, traders said the market was fairly quiet. On the New York Stock Exchange, more than 931.8 million shares changed hands. Volume on the Nasdaq stock market was 1.48 billion shares.
"The volatility would connote there was more activity than was actually going on," said Bill Allyn, head of listed trading at Jefferies & Company.
JDS Uniphase led the rise in the Nasdaq, climbing 26 3/16, to 187 1/2. The stock jumped after the manufacturer of parts used in fiber-optic equipment announced plans for its third 2-for-1 stock split since July.
CMGI gained 49 9/16, to 326 7/16. America Online was up 7 1/8, to 83. And Yahoo jumped 42 5/16, to 475.
Strength in technology was not limited to companies whose corporate history did not begin at some point in the 1990's.
I.B.M. gained 7 11/16, to 115 9/16. Hewlett-Packard was up 3 11/16, to 117 7/16. And Intel rose 4 5/8, to 86 15/16. All three companies are components of the Dow Jones industrial average.
Among financial stocks, American Express slid 9, to 157 1/4. J. P. Morgan fell 5 3/16, to 121 7/16. Citigroup fell 3, to 52 11/16. And General Electric shed 4 3/4, to 150.
Brokerage stocks also fell. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter tumbled 7 3/4, to 135. Merrill Lynch fell 2 11/16, to 80 5/8. And Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette lost 1 7/16, to 46 15/16.
It was a good day for biotechnology stocks. Amgen rose 2 15/16, to 63, on expectations that it will beat fourth-quarter earnings estimates and is on track to win approval of two new drugs. Genentech rose 1 1/2, to 136.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JDU (TSX) (57%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); MMM (SWX) (54%); MMM (NYSE) (54%); MMM (FRA) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); ALCOA INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); 3M CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); RETAILERS (63%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



101 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: U.A.W. Chief Uses Contract To Recapture Political Sway

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 3

 BODY:
In the past, presidents of the United Automobile Workers union, men like Walter Reuther and Douglas A. Fraser, were well-known national figures not just because they could shut down the world's largest companies but also because they were politically influential and frequently on television.
Stephen P. Yokich, the union's president since 1995, has taken a different approach, shunning the limelight and focusing on contract issues. Believing that he can communicate most effectively with his members through local union leaders, he has said virtually nothing in public during strikes and other showdowns with auto makers. While he has visited Washington frequently to discuss issues like trade and global warming, he has favored private meetings with politicians. 
 But now Mr. Yokich is trying to rebuild the political power of the union, most notably by negotiating paid holidays for 400,000 workers at General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler on Election Day in 2000 and 2002. The prospect that more union workers might turn out to vote, hand out pamphlets and drive other Democrats to polling booths has alarmed Republicans.
The tricky part for Mr. Yokich, pollsters and politicians said, will be persuading the rank and file to vote for candidates endorsed by union leaders. Earning $50,000 to $120,000 a year, the union's members are too affluent to benefit from Democratic social spending, and prosperous enough to be concerned about income tax rates. Many members are conservative on social issues.
Yet the leadership has tended to support Democrats, particularly for president, perceiving them as friendlier on workers' rights.
Mr. Yokich said the union must emphasize political concerns that apply to all members and transcend partisan politics. "We support those who support us; the party doesn't matter," he said in an interview.
Two such concerns, he said, are international trade and global warming. The problem is that neither former Senator Bill Bradley nor Vice President Al Gore has taken Mr. Yokich's positions on either issue. The union will endorse a presidential candidate next month; it had opposed the A.F.L.-C.I.O's decision to endorse Mr. Gore early, in October.
Mr. Yokich advocates balancing free trade with what he calls "fair trade," requiring other countries to follow rules similar to those in the United States on safety, the environment and workers' rights to form unions. He is particularly critical of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which he says has destroyed more high-paying jobs than it has created, an assertion questioned by many economists.
But Mr. Bradley and Mr. Gore have track records of supporting free trade. Mr. Yokich said he had been disappointed that they were not at a peaceful protest by union members at the recent meeting of the World Trade Organization in Seattle.
Global warming is another difficult issue for Mr. Yokich. With each gallon of gasoline they burn, automobiles release heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, so environmentalists have begun lobbying for more stringent fuel-economy rules. But the union contends that tougher rules are unnecessary because many other industries contribute to the problem and because developing nations have not agreed to limits on their emissions of such gases. Mr. Bradley and particularly Mr. Gore have both called for tighter fuel-economy rules. While Mr. Bradley has been less outspoken than Mr. Gore, he supported a Senate resolution calling for stiffer fuel-economy rules on sport utility vehicles and other light trucks, which are allowed much worse fuel economy than cars. The measure was narrowly defeated on Sept. 15 after the union joined automakers in strenuous lobbying against it.
Mr. Yokich said he had expressed concerns to Mr. Gore about the Clinton administration's policies on global warming, but quickly added that he was a friend of the environment.
"I talk to the Sierra Club, so you can't just say, 'he's about jobs for his members'," Mr. Yokich said. "I belong to the Sierra Club, I belong to Ducks Unlimited."
Mr. Fraser said that Mr. Yokich had to become more active politically because the most pressing issues facing the union, like international competition, environmental protections and health care, could not be settled at the bargaining table with auto makers.
"The future of the members of the U.A.W. rests with Congress and the legislative process more than it ever did in the past," Mr. Fraser said. "That's why you have to get more involved in the political process." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; ELECTION ISSUES; AUTOMOBILES; HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; YOKICH, STEPHEN P AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



102 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: 1763 Tavern Is Shutting Its Doors For a While

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
In its 237 years, Fraunces Tavern has survived the American Revolution, a devastating fire and a terrorist bombing.
For the most recent half-century or so, the historic tavern where Gen. George Washington gave his farewell speech to his troops in 1783 has been run by the Norden family. 
 But the establishment faces a modern-day Manhattan problem, high real estate costs, and the owner, Robert Norden Jr., says he is being evicted.
Last-minute negotiations yesterday with the building's owner, a historic society called the Sons of the Revolution, failed, Mr. Norden said. So he began loading much of his office equipment into moving vehicles, and when the restaurant's employees report to work today, they will come to move, not to cook.
For the last eight years, Mr. Norden said, he has run the tavern on a month-to-month lease that amounted to about $300,000 each year.
But late last year, he said, the board refused to act on a 10-year lease he proposed that would have kept the rate steady.
Last night, Mr. Norden said, the owners rejected his request to extend the lease for a few more months while both parties try to reach an agreement on a long-term lease, and they told him he had to leave.
Board members of the Sons of the Revolution could not be reached yesterday by phone.
"You may think that the real estate is worth more because it's Wall Street, the economy is good, but it is a tavern," Mr. Norden said, adding that because of the location in the financial district, which is busy only on weekdays, it was not feasible to open on weekends.
The New York City Landmarks and Preservation commissioner has designated the building, which also includes a museum, a historic site. City officials say this limits the types of uses and alterations that can be made to the building, so even if Mr. Norden's family is pushed out, it is likely that it would probably be leased to someone who would operate some sort of bar or tavern.
The original Fraunces Tavern building was erected in 1719 as a Georgian-style house for Steven DeLancey. In 1763, the building was converted into a tavern by Samuel Fraunces, and it was there 20 years later that General Washington gave his famous farewell address to the officers who helped the United States gain its freedom from Britain. In a second-floor room just above the restaurant, the general told his troops, "with a heart full of love and gratitude, I now take leave of you."
Later, in 1900, the original building was destroyed in a fire that tore through Lower Manhattan.
Seven years later, the tavern was rebuilt at the same location. In 1975, 4 people were killed and 53 injured when a bomb set by the F.A.L.N., a group of Puerto Rican terrorists, went off in the building. More recently the tavern has been a popular tourist spot.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The notice on the door yesterday said that Fraunces Tavern, where George Washington said farewell to his officers in 1783, was closing. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FRAUNCES TAVERN (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: FRAUNCES TAVERN (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); CITIES (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (57%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



103 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Tobacco and Its Money Have Minority Allies in New York

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
State Senator Efrain Gonzalez Jr. of the Bronx decided to open a Washington office for a Hispanic legislators' association a few years ago, figuring that he would have little trouble raising the necessary $40,000. Following something of a tradition among black and Hispanic members of the New York Legislature, Mr. Gonzalez called a lobbyist for Philip Morris, and came away with the entire amount.
A colleague from the borough, Assemblywoman Gloria Davis, receives $5,000 annually from Philip Morris, the world's largest tobacco company, for a Thanksgiving meal for the poor in her predominantly black district. Seeking aid for a program to teach nonviolence to young people, Ms. Davis said that she raised $22,000 from another cigarette giant, R. J. Reynolds. 
 Such corporate grants are not only a cornerstone in a decades-old campaign by the cigarette companies to foster good will in black and Hispanic neighborhoods, an important cigarette market. The grants have also helped the industry cement ties to black and Hispanic officials, who are often one of the few factions in the Democratic Party to oppose new restrictions on smoking.
While the industry is increasingly ostracized by many politicians in New York, some black and Hispanic state lawmakers depict it as a kindhearted corporate citizen, playing down the health consequences of smoking and asserting that they are not in a position to reject assistance from companies making legal products.
That alliance in New York, which has parallels in Washington and other state capitals, has until recently been a significant factor in the industry's enviable record in Albany. Even last month, when the tide suddenly turned against the tobacco companies in the Legislature for the first time since 1993, some black and Hispanic lawmakers came to their defense.
The lawmakers questioned a move by Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders to pay for an expansion of health care for the uninsured in part by nearly doubling the cigarette tax, a measure that delighted antismoking groups. Ultimately, the lawmakers said they supported the bill because they did not want to hinder a new health-care program, but among Democrats, their views stood out.
"Another cigarette tax is a little out of hand," said Mr. Gonzalez, who until last month was president of the legislators' group, the National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators. "It just looks sexy politically."
Antismoking groups say they are dismayed by the lawmakers' stances, contending that because blacks in particular smoke more and suffer higher rates of smoking-related illnesses than whites, the lawmakers should treat the industry more harshly. Such criticism has arisen before. But documents disclosed recently by the industry in smoking litigation cast the dispute in a new light, showing the extent of its generosity -- and links to policymaking.
An internal Philip Morris document from 1988, for example, lists roughly 125 black groups that the company assisted across the nation: from the Bedford-Stuyvesant Real Estate Board (which received $200), to the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus ($6,000) to the National Association of Negro Business and Professional Women's Club ($12,000).
Next to some of the listings are the names of black politicians from New York and elsewhere who requested the grants. There is also a column titled "support on issues," which describes how some of the groups backed Philip Morris's effort to block smoking restrictions and cigarette taxes.
While Philip Morris did not disclose documents on its current giving, interviews indicate that it has not significantly diminished -- indeed, the company is now seeking to soften its image by highlighting its philanthropy.
It donated $30,000 in 1998 to sponsor conferences for groups representing black and Hispanic New York lawmakers. The Bronx Democratic Committee, which is led by Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, the most influential Hispanic politician in Albany, received $19,000 in the last three years from Philip Morris, and $10,000 more from R. J. Reynolds, according to campaign finance records.
In interviews, several black and Hispanic lawmakers scoffed at what they said was the heavy-handed approach of smoking opponents. They acknowledged that they were sympathetic to the industry because of its financial assistance, but dismissed suggestions of a quid pro quo.
And they said it was wrong to scrutinize their relationship to the tobacco industry while ignoring white lawmakers, especially Republicans, with similar ties.
"I don't think that I was sent to Albany to govern somebody's bedroom," Ms. Davis said. "We have enough laws on the books now."
The lawmakers said that in the past, when corporate America shunned black and Hispanic causes and had little interest in diversifying the work force, the tobacco companies were different.
"I can tell you that 25 years ago, when you could only get 10 people to show up for a caucus event, Philip Morris was always there," said Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., a Harlem Democrat who is the most powerful black lawmaker in Albany. He was referring to the Black, Puerto Rican and Hispanic Legislative Caucus in the State Legislature.
"Of course, today, it is looked upon as something nefarious," Mr. Farrell said. "Maybe we're addicted to that like you become addicted to cigarettes."
Peggy Roberts, a spokeswoman for Philip Morris, said the company was proud of its involvement with black and Hispanic lawmakers.
"Our history with diversity and minority employment goes back to the 50's," she said. "We are very anxious to build relationships with lots of different groups. These relationships are important to us, and if they help us get an understanding, or at least an audience with legislators from these communities, that is great."
Asked whether the company linked grants to official action, she said, "That's unfair. What we are trying to do is build relationships so that we can have a dialogue, and that is as far as it goes."
Representatives of R. J. Reynolds did not respond to several requests for comment.
Debates have long simmered over charitable giving by the tobacco companies, especially Philip Morris, which is among the biggest such benefactors in the nation and has carved a large role in financing the arts in New York City. Nonprofit groups have grappled with whether to refuse such money because it is generated in large part by profits from smoking. Many continue accepting it.
In places like Harlem, some groups have gone on campaigns against what they say is the tobacco companies' policy of flooding black and Hispanic neighborhoods with advertising and of aiming menthol-flavored brands like Newport, Kool and Salem at black smokers. Even so, many local politicians have remained on the sidelines.
A few have spoken out, including Assemblyman Albert Vann of Brooklyn. More common are the sentiments of black and Hispanic members of the Assembly Health Committee, which has been a battleground on the issue in recent years, particularly over a bill that would impose a state ban on smoking in restaurants.
In 1998, the bill's sponsors suffered a startling rebuff when four black and Hispanic Democrats on the Democratic-controlled committee -- Ms. Davis, Mr. Ramirez, James Gary Pretlow of Westchester County and Darryl C. Towns of Brooklyn -- voted with Republicans and killed the bill.
Saying that one of his primary concerns was economic development, Mr. Ramirez explained that he could not ignore the economic effects of more restrictions on his district. If fewer people smoke, then bodegas, which are often the backbone of Hispanic neighborhoods, will lose cigarette sales, he said.
White lawmakers, he said, "have the luxury and the flexibility of taking positions that are much more popular, because the consequences of their actions are never going to be felt in their districts." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (85%); PMI (SWX) (85%); PM (PAR) (85%); PM (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (85%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); NEW YORK LEGISLATURE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK LEGISLATURE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MINORITIES (US); FINANCES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); SMOKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); LOBBYING (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (75%); CORPORATE GIVING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE (62%); LEGISLATION (61%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J EFRAIN GONZALEZ JR (65%); GLORIA DAVIS (60%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



104 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: A Harlem Power Zone Weakens Some

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN 

 BODY:
Richard Martin had long dreamed of building a television studio in Harlem. Mr. Martin, a former cameraman at NBC and WOR News who is now an adjunct professor in New York University's film and television department, wanted a place that would "reach out to people of all racial and ethnic backgrounds."
Money, or the lack of it, always stood in his way. But five years ago, with the creation of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone -- one of nine such zones designated in 1994 to spur economic development and job creation in upper Manhattan and the South Bronx -- he decided to go for it. 
 For a while, it seemed that his dream would survive, but after years of effort, it has run into a wall, part of the mixed legacy of an ambitious economic experiment.
Like many of his neighbors, Mr. Martin has yet to see the fruits of Harlem's economic renaissance. Many mom-and-pop shops that have been local institutions for decades maintain that the area is being overrun by chains like Starbucks, Barnes & Noble and Blockbuster video, forcing smaller merchants to close their doors. But defenders of the empowerment zone say the current changes will be best for the local economy over the long run.
Since its inception in May 1996, the empowerment zone has invested $113.5 million in central, eastern and western Harlem, Washington Heights and Inwood. Loan recipients included Harlem USA, a 275,000-square-foot retail and entertainment complex on West 125th Street ($11.2 million); the Vibe Store, a 7,500-square-foot entertainment superstore ($600,000); Broadway Video Duplication Center, at 132nd Street and Broadway, owned by Lorne Michaels ($439,000), and Minton's Playhouse restaurant ($570,000).
Yet small businesses feel they have been ignored.
"There is no renaissance for the community-based businesses," said Sikulu Shange, owner of the Record Shack, a 125th Street landmark for over 50 years. "Harlem is an auction block and everything is up for grabs. They're bringing in entities which already exist in the community. HMV is coming across the street from me, a record shop. The renaissance is a big fiasco."
Mr. Martin's experience is instructive. He envisioned his studio as a modern-day drum circle, comparable, he said, to the ones African villages used to communicate with those who spoke different languages or dialects. He invested about $100,000 of his own cash and, with the help of student and community volunteers, he gutted, painted and renovated a 2,500-square-foot space on West 125th Street, just east of Broadway.
By November 1996, Drum Television Network had an office, a studio, a control room and editing suites, and began broadcasting Monday through Friday from 4 to 6 p.m. on Channel 35.
During that time Mr. Martin also applied for a $50,000 loan from the Business Resource and Investment Service Center, the arm of the empowerment zone that provides loans to small businesses and start-ups.
But Mr. Martin's request was denied, and by May 1997 Drum was off the air.
"To get a loan they said you have to have a three-year track record of being in a business," he said. "If I'm a new business, how could I have three years of bookkeeping and records? What's the use of an empowerment zone if not to help entrepreneurs get going?"
Officials insist the smaller businesses have the wrong idea, and that the empowerment zone is supposed to create jobs, not act as a social services program.
"We had a deficit of 12,000 jobs when this started, and you can't reduce that kind of deficit with family-owned business," said Jim Capel, chief of staff in the office of Representative Charles B. Rangel, who led the passage of the Federal Empowerment Zone legislation and is now a director on the New York City Empowerment Zone board. "This community has got to experience the same kind of economic realities that other communities do."
Local businesses, however, assert that a brick wall has been put in their way. "They told me it wasn't feasible to have an office-supply store in Harlem, but there's been talk of bringing a Staples up here," said Dorothy Pitman Hughes, owner and chief executive of Harlem Office Supply, which has been in business for 18 years. "If that happens, it will crush us to death."
After Ms. Pitman Hughes's $360,000 loan request was denied, she began selling over-the-counter shares in her company for $1 apiece. This year she plans to go public. She is also hoping to open Harlem Office Supply stores on college campuses nationwide. "Right now the schools get their supplies from non-black vendors," she said. "Where we spend our money is where we get our power."
As for Mr. Martin, who also offers video production training courses in his studio and is the executive director of the Community Film Workshop Council, a broadcast training program for minority groups and women, he is preparing to apply to the resource center yet again. To help pay bills, he does freelance camera work and teaches at N.Y.U.
Still, he hasn't given up on his dream of turning Drum (which has been doing video production work for clients like General Electric, Popular Mechanics and Wilson Sports) into the all-inclusive circle he has always imagined.
"I'm going to do it with or without the empowerment zone," he said. "I don't want anyone to give me anything -- just make it possible to get this business up."
"Don't get me wrong, the empowerment zone is good for Harlem, and it's going to get better as it goes along," he added. "We just worry that the wave will come and go, and that we'll get washed away."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Martin, second from right, created Drum Television Network in Harlembut was denied a loan. He was taping last month with, from left, Percy Pantlitz and Sylvester Royer, and, at right, Jackina Theano. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 938 RONALD H. BROWN FEDERAL BUILDING (90%); 

TICKER: BBI (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (82%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (77%); MUSIC STORES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); FILM (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); MULTILINGUALISM (67%); TRENDS (66%); VOLUNTEERS (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY RICHARD MARTIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



105 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Names Trusted Aide to Manage Campaign

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY and ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced yesterday that Bruce Teitelbaum, the man he has relied on in recent years to defend his administration and carry out many of his political orders, will manage his campaign if the mayor runs, as expected, for the United States Senate this year.
His afternoon announcement coincided with a carefully worded statement issued by Mr. Teitelbaum's lawyer saying that, according to federal prosecutors and the Brooklyn district attorney's office, Mr. Teitelbaum is "presently neither a target nor a subject" of a criminal investigation into the collapse of a Brooklyn building that killed a construction worker in November. The accident has stirred questions about City Hall's influence over building practices in the Orthodox Jewish section of Williamsburg. 
 Mr. Teitelbaum, the mayor's former chief of staff, was the administration's liaison to the city's Orthodox and Hasidic Jews. Federal prosecutors and investigators for the district attorney's office have been waiting to talk to him for several weeks. His lawyer, Richard Weinberg, said in the statement that Mr. Teitelbaum planned to meet shortly with investigators -- as a potential witness, he emphasized -- "to answer all questions posed and to assist with any ongoing investigation."
A spokesman for the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn, Bill Muller, declined to comment. Kevin Davitt, a spokesman for Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, said that "every word" in Mr. Weinberg's statement was accurate.
"Now the investigation can go forward," Mr. Davitt said.
In addition to specifying Mr. Teitelbaum's role in a campaign that has yet to be announced officially, the mayor said Randy L. Levine was stepping down as a deputy mayor to join the New York office of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, the Washington law firm. New York Yankees officials also said that Mr. Levine would soon assume a significant management position with the baseball team, which would include labor issues and salary arbitration negotiations. But the mayor stressed that Mr. Levine, who is his main conduit to the national Republican Party, would stay on as a senior campaign adviser and "have a very important role in guiding" the campaign.
The mayor's naming of a campaign manager reflects a certain faith in the mostly untested abilities of Mr. Teitelbaum, who now serves as his top paid fund-raiser. Although he has essentially served as Mr. Giuliani's one-man campaign operation for the last year, Mr. Teitelbaum has no other experience in managing political campaigns and will be pitted against Bill de Blasio, an experienced political manager who will be running the campaign of Mr. Giuliani's expected opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton.
During his news conference yesterday, Mr. Giuliani was asked about the investigation and Mr. Teitelbaum, and he said he was not paying much attention to it because "I know what it's about."
In recent weeks, the Republican mayor has adamantly denied that Mr. Teitelbaum or anyone else in his administration had done anything untoward, and he has accused Mr. Hynes of running a politically motivated investigation.
It also speaks to the mayor's disinclination to widen his tight-knit coterie of advisers, to which both Mr. Teitelbaum and Mr. Levine belong.
Mr. Levine, 44, has often been in the background. He has been deputy mayor for economic development, planning and administration since June 1997. Before that, he was labor relations commissioner. In his four and a half years in city government, he negotiated contracts with school principals, sanitation workers, firefighters and transportation workers. (Mr. Levine is to serve as an adviser in the city's upcoming labor negotiations.) He has also been the mayor's link to upstate Republicans who have distrusted Mr. Giuliani ever since he endorsed former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat, for re-election.
Akin, Gump is the law firm of such prominent Democrats as Robert S. Strauss and Vernon E. Jordan, President Clinton's friend and adviser, but has in recent years reached out to Republicans in what its chairman, Bruce McLean, said was an attempt "to cover both sides of the aisle."
State Republicans and City Hall officials said yesterday that Mr. Levine's role in the campaign was for now undefined and that Mr. Teitelbaum would run the campaign from day to day. Peter Powers, the former first deputy mayor and one of Mr. Giuliani's oldest and closest friends, is also expected to have a major advisory role in the campaign.
Mr. Giuliani said last night that he had not made individual assignments beyond that for Mr. Teitelbaum. "All the rest of it is self-serving speculation," he said.
Mr. Teitelbaum, 36, has often found himself in the news. That has been the price for being Mr. Giuliani's zealous personal assistant, the man called upon to weed out the unfaithful, to issue threats when deemed necessary. He is also the man who courted the mayor's Orthodox Jewish supporters.
That reputation is one reason investigators want to talk to Mr. Teitelbaum. Gaston Silva, a former city buildings commissioner, has told prosecutors that Mr. Teitelbaum pressured him to remove Joseph Trivisonno, a building inspector whose style had prompted some developers in Williamsburg to complain to City Hall.
Mr. Trivisonno resigned in late 1998, and later said he felt pressure from City Hall. Aides to Mr. Giuliani have said the treatment of Mr. Trivisonno represented a responsive government at best, heavy-handed politics at worst, but not anything that could be construed as illegal.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Teitelbaum 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP (84%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BUILDINGS (CONSTRUCTION); JEWS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CITIES (79%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LAWYERS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); RELIGION (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); WITNESSES (71%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (70%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (70%); BASEBALL (67%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (66%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; BUMILLER, ELISABETH; TEITELBAUM, BRUCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



106 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: The Secret to Snaring Hottest Ticket in Town

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT 

 BODY:
Ever wondered why tickets are sold out at the box office for a basketball game or a Broadway show, but ticket agencies seem to have a large supply? There is often a reason, says the New York State Attorney General's Office: bribery.
A continuing investigation by the office has found that ticket brokers use bribery to obtain tickets for Broadway shows, concerts and sporting events, tickets that should be available to the public at box office prices. The brokers are able to acquire hundreds of seats, creating a virtual stranglehold on the most-sought tickets, according to investigators. 
 "Insiders are taking bribes to make tickets available to ticket brokers, and the average Joe doesn't have a shot," said Elizabeth Block, the attorney general's lead investigator into ticket sales.
Although investigators acknowledged the existence of scalpers who resell tickets in front of arenas and theaters, those people are not the focus of the investigation.
"We want to root out corruption in the box office itself," said Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer. Mr. Spitzer said his office was close to filing a series of criminal complaints against people who take or pay bribes for tickets.
If the problem of brokers illegally obtaining large blocs of tickets could be eliminated, Mr. Spitzer said, the Attorney General's Office would consider supporting the removal of price restrictions on ticket resales. "I am certainly tempted by a free market for tickets once we have eliminated bribery in the ticket office itself," he said.
The widespread bribery has inflated prices beyond those that a free market would bear for three reasons, Mr. Spitzer said. First, he explained, brokers snap up so many tickets that it worsens the scarcity of tickets in high demand. Then brokers have to recoup the cost of the bribes. Finally, businesses support the brokers by paying inflated prices for seats that the companies use to impress clients. The money that companies spend entertaining is tax deductible.
"Companies can spend virtually unlimited dollars," Mr. Spitzer said. One New York brokerage firm spent almost $370,000 on tickets in a single year, a report issued by the Attorney General's Office in May said.
The problem is not limited to New York. "I've spoken with people in other states," Mr. Spitzer said. "And this has not become a multistate enforcement action, but the problem is, in fact, nationwide."
The attorney general acknowledged that the problem may be more apparent in New York. Even though New York has more shows, concerts and venues than most cities, the audience, fed by tourism, outstrips demand. There is also a concentration of major companies willing to pay the high ticket prices, he said.
Broker markups on tickets commonly range up to 600 percent, but can go higher depending upon the event.
In August, during the United States Open tennis tournament in Queens, more than 900 people received citations for scalping tickets, said Michael Mansfield, chief of the Economic Crimes Bureau for the Queens district attorney. There, $25 tickets were going for $2,500.
In 1994, the New York securities firm cited in the attorney general's report paid a ticket broker in New Jersey, $367,980 for tickets -- including $3,250 each for four U.S. Open tickets, according to officials.
Such markups are illegal in New York under a law that restricts resale price to $5 or 10 percent, whichever is greater, plus tax. Lobbyists for the East Coast Ticket Brokers Association have supported a bill that would repeal that provision. Repeated calls to the organization's lawyers, the firm of Davidoff & Malito, for comment about the Attorney General's report were not returned.
Still, even with the law in place, brokers skirt New York statutes, Mr. Spitzer said. Many operate in New Jersey, where the scalping laws do not cover out-of-state sales.
Gerald B. Lefcourt, a criminal defense lawyer in New York, said, "If brokers do end up in court, they usually get adjourned in contemplation of dismissal." In these cases, as long as the defendant is not arrested again for six months, the charges are automatically dismissed.
The Internet has seemingly made scalping easier. A search of eBay under tickets yesterday brought 2,418 responses. Ebay's policy is that the seller must conform to local laws, which causes enforcement problems because the seller does not have to list a location. Ebay will remove any tickets that the police say are being sold illegally. But that has never happened, a spokesman said.
In 1996, Madison Square Garden conducted an investigation that led to the dismissal of five employees in the subscription department and the removal of many brokers from the subscription list. Some of those brokers were reinstated in 1997. That same year, state investigators found, 75 percent of the Knicks's subscriptions were given to people found to have connections with management. The 25 percent sold to the public were in the upper tier, the report found.
A spokesman for Madison Square Garden said in a statement: "In each of the past three years Madison Square Garden, as part of its ongoing policy regarding the unauthorized resale of season tickets, revoked an average of more than 500 tickets per year. Reports have stated that a handful of people who had their subscriptions revoked have been able to subsequently purchase new subscriptions. The garden is investigating and if appropriate, will revoke these subscriptions."
The attorney general's office has asked for changes in legislation that deals with scalping. Specifically, the office has asked that taking or giving bribes for tickets, now a misdemeanor, be made a felony. It also wants to set up a system to track sales of individuals tickets, to make it easier to identify box office employees who make illegal sales.
The issue probably will not be taken up by the New York Legislature until the current state law expires next June. Even then, it is unclear if there is a legislative solution.
As the report itself pointed out, New York has regulated resale and sellers of tickets for 77 years and has not beaten scalping yet.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hot tickets: The New York State Attorney General's office has found that bribery is widespread among ticket brokers. An investigator, Elizabeth Block, holding some of the evidence seized from scalpers. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT; TICKET SCALPING; BRIBERY TICKET SALES (93%); BRIBERY (92%); TICKET AGENCIES (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); THEATER (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); TENNIS (60%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FURCHGOTT, ROY ELIOT SPITZER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



107 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Opposition Party in Croatia Leads in Early Vote Returns

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Tuesday, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Preliminary results from the parliamentary elections in Croatia on Monday, released early this morning, indicate that a six-party opposition coalition should be able to form a new government, ousting the party founded by Franjo Tudjman, the late president.
With a little more than a quarter of the vote counted, the election nonetheless appeared to be a serious defeat for Mr. Tudjman's Croatian Democratic Union, the umbrella nationalist party that has governed Croatia since it became independent in 1991. 
 Mr. Tudjman died last month after a long illness, with his party deeply unpopular because of economic distress, high unemployment and widespread allegations of corruption.
The new prime minister is likely to be Ivica Racan, 55, the leader of the Social Democrats, the former Communist Party, who has promised closer and less abrasive relations with the United States, the European Union and the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague. He promises more attention to human rights and press freedom. In return, he is seeking Western help to ease the pain of economic restructuring.
While officials of the governing party conceded the loss of the election, another senior party official, Vladimir Seks, the deputy speaker of Parliament, warned: "We all have to wait for the final results to come first. I suggest that the temporary winners not rejoice too much."
Some Croatia experts have warned about vote-rigging and other irregularities. Foreign election observers are to speak about their findings this afternoon.
The Clinton administration, which sees an opposition victory in Croatia as a model for squabbling democrats in nearby Serbia, has made no secret of its support for the Racan-led coalition. It is expected that Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright will make an early visit to Zagreb if the results hold up. That would be a sharp contrast to the low level of diplomatic representation at Mr. Tudjman's funeral, at which the United States was represented only by its ambassador.
The coalition of the Social Democrats and Social Liberals will need support from another allied four-party coalition in order to have a stable majority in the new Parliament.
The state electoral commission, releasing the preliminary results after midnight, said the opposition alliance was ahead in 9 of Croatia's 10 constituencies. An 11th constituency is made up of votes by 350,000 expatriates who hold Croatian citizenship, most of them Bosnian Croats; they favor the governing party, which has supported them with subsidies.
But in general, the vote for the governing party is down in a high turnout of more than 70 percent of 4.2 million registered voters. The party is getting about a quarter of the vote, down from 44 percent in 1995.
The main opposition bloc of Social Democrats and Social Liberals is getting about 40 percent of the early vote, while the second opposition alliance is getting 16 percent. But the country's proportional system of representation means that voting percentages do not translate directly into seats, and the number of seats for each party is unlikely to be known until tonight or Wednesday.
Mr. Racan expressed optimism about becoming prime minister, saying, "Together with the other opposition bloc, I think we will have a very stable majority."
In a concession statement, the moderate foreign minister, Mate Granic, who lost in his own Zagreb constituency, said that on the basis of preliminary results, "it is clear that we have lost the elections."
Elections to replace Mr. Tudjman as president will be held Jan. 24. The opposition has pledged to reduce the constitutional powers of the presidency, but will need the cooperation of the Tudjman party to secure the necessary two-thirds majority in Parliament.
Mr. Granic is Washington's favorite for the presidency, but he has had trouble getting his own party's endorsement and is considering running as an independent in a large field. The main opposition candidate will be Drazen Budisa, the leader of the Social Liberals and Mr. Racan's coalition partner. The election is likely to require a second round runoff, probably on Feb. 7.
The results so far in these parliamentary elections are not encouraging for the governing party, which some experts think might break apart in opposition.
Nikica Valentic, the governing party's candidate for prime minister, said: "Although we are only talking about a small sample, the results are realistically below our expectations. Obviously the electorate has been critical of our rule." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (76%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA; EUROPE; CROATIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (76%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; FOREIGN AID LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); WAR CRIMES (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; TUDJMAN, FRANJO (PRES); RACAN, IVICA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



108 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: AMERICAS;
MEXICO BREWER RAISES PRICES

BYLINE: By Sam Dillon 

 BODY:
Mexico's largest brewer, Grupo Modelo S.A., raised by 16 percent the average domestic price of its 10 beer labels. That increase could help the company strengthen profits because it is 6 percent higher than the Mexican government's 10 percent inflation target for 2000. The price change does not apply to exports. Modelo exports five of its labels, including Corona Extra, the largest-selling imported beer in the United States.
 Sam Dillon
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GMODELO (BMV) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (94%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: GRUPO MODELO SA DE CV GRUPO MODELO SAB DE CV (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRUPO MODELO SA DE CV

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BEER BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (83%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM SAM DILLON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



109 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: BRADLEY AND GORE RENEW THE BATTLE

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER with KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 3

 BODY:
Former Senator Bill Bradley and Vice President Al Gore, 1,125 miles apart, argued today about the virtues of experience and accused each other of having a vision too limited to deal with problems that concern most Americans.
"Only those who have never left Washington have missed the lessons of the last decade," Mr. Bradley told an audience of 400 here. The audience first giggled and then applauded at the obvious reference to Mr. Gore, who has held office in Washington since 1977. 
 "Only those who have embodied the ways of Washington have failed to notice that Americans see Washington as a place that has nothing to do with their lives," he continued.
A few hours later, before 1,000 students and supporters in Davenport, Iowa, Mr. Gore accused Mr. Bradley of having a passive and narrow sense of what a president can do.
"The presidency is not an academic exercise," Mr. Gore said. "It's not a seminar where you get to entertain a single grand theory."
The two Democratic presidential hopefuls, who were resuming their campaigns after the holiday, will debate in person twice this week, on Wednesday in Manchester and on Saturday in Des Moines. Today they warmed up, in speeches their staffs advertised as important, with the ideas they think will play best in Iowa's Jan. 24 caucuses and New Hampshire's Feb. 1 primary.
The Bradley approach reflected some of the anti-Washington themes that won primaries here for Jimmy Carter in 1976, Ronald Reagan in 1980 and Patrick J. Buchanan in 1996. In a line that recalled Mr. Carter's promise to provide a government as "full of love as the American people," Mr. Bradley said, "I'm not prepared to settle for anything less than America realizing the potential embodied in our ideals, in the creativity of our minds and the goodness of our people."
Without directly naming his rival, Mr. Bradley called the vice president no more than a tinkerer. He referred briefly to his major campaign proposals: providing universal access to health insurance, ending child poverty, putting 600,000 new teachers in public schools, registering all handguns and reforming the campaign finance system.
Then, in a comment that the audience took to be aimed at Mr. Gore, he said:
"There are those voices that say we cannot do big things any more, that we must tinker around the edges offering small solutions to big problems. But I say now is not the time to be timid. Above all, now is not the time to settle."
Mr. Gore took on his rival much more bluntly, scoffing at his emphasis on health care.
"Senator Bradley," he said, "seems to believe that America should address only one thing at a time, or only a very small number of things at a time, health care is the only challenge deserving of a comprehensive proposed solution."
"The promise of America," Mr. Gore added, "means more than a single proposal, done in the wrong way, at a price that leaves us helpless to take on other great national priorities."
He suggested that Mr. Bradley's approach was, if not un-American, at least un-Democratic: "Can you imagine John Kennedy saying, 'We have to fight the cold war; we can't explore the heavens or put a man on the moon?' He knew we could do more. Can you imagine Lyndon Johnson saying, 'We can wage war on poverty, but we'll have to postpone the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. He knew we could do more."
The characterization of Mr. Bradley as a man of "limited vision" was meant to puncture the image that the former senator has gained with his call for universal health insurance. The Gore campaign is worried that this is undermining support for the vice president, who is offering a more incremental approach.
As a result, Mr. Gore seized on Mr. Bradley's self-proclaimed affinity for Ronald Reagan as an advocate for a few big ideas, saying a Bradley administration would lack the can-do American spirit that Mr. Gore promised to bring to the presidency.
As he chastised Mr. Bradley for what he called a single-minded approach to health care, he promoted his own education plan by saying it would "bring the greatest single increase in our federal commitment to education since the G.I. Bill and the greatest single increase in our federal commitment to pre-K through 12 education since the beginning of public schools."
He then turned Mr. Bradley's language against him, dismissing Mr. Bradley's education proposals in nearly identical phrasing that Mr. Bradley has used to describe the vice president. "We can't settle for the minor extension of a few existing programs," Mr. Gore said. "We can't settle for simply nibbling around the edges."
And he emphasized the theme that he is a fighter, fighting both for the nomination and suggesting that as president he would fight for the country. In an aside that revealed something of his combative strategy, Mr. Gore told the audience: "How one campaigns is some prediction of how one might serve."
For Mr. Bradley, cultivating the rocky New Hampshire soil of anti-Washington feeling requires a bit of juggling, since he served in the Senate for 18 years and boasts of his experience there as evidence that he can get things done. So he emphasizes the years since he retired in 1995 as a time when he got reacquainted with a nation that has "an abiding sense that Washington doesn't have a clue as to where people really live their lives."
Speaking in a state where he may be ahead because independents can vote in the Democratic primary, Mr. Bradley attacked Washington, and, by implication, Mr. Gore, for excessive partisanship.
"Only those who have been mired in the battles of partisanship have failed to realize that Americans are tired of partisanship," he said.
As he has before, Mr. Gore suggested today that Mr. Bradley made a cowardly retreat, not an intellectual exploration, when he retired from the Senate. Speaking of the seven-year Clinton-Gore economic record, he said, "There were many good individuals -- even in high places in our own party -- who thought that it couldn't be done. When Senator Bradley retired from the Senate during President Clinton's first term, he spoke about a 'budget stalemate,' of a political process that was, and I quote, 'paralyzed' . . . on creating jobs, on reforming welfare . . . a continual deadlock. And he said that part of the problem was that Democrats 'cling to old programs.' "
Mr. Bradley's other main topic today, raised perhaps as a counter to Mr. Gore's experience in the area, was the contradictions of technology, which "brings us closer and makes us distant at the same time."
"With cell phones and pagers and e-mail, we're never out of touch, but we're not face-to-face, either," he said. "We're both more connected and more isolated. Now we have so many different avenues of communication that about the only thing Americans do at the same time any more is watch the Super Bowl."
But he said this did not worry him because "every new form of information and knowledge creates more liberty, not less."
"Democracy always benefits from more information, more transparency, more ideas," Mr. Bradley said.
Each candidate closed with an effort at inspiration, though Mr. Gore's was more programmatic. The vice president said, "Imagine what this country will be like when every child has health coverage, when we save Medicare and Social Security, when we invest in world-class public schools, when we make bold new strides for opportunity and justice.
"Let us raise our sights and broaden our vision. Let us reach for the America that is in our dreams -- and also within our grasp."
Mr. Bradley concluded by saying, "What does it profit us to expand the boundaries of knowledge if we don't expand the circle of justice. For though we're expanding the frontiers of knowledge, the coordinates of the human heart remain the same, and that is the ultimate challenge of politics, to touch the goodness that is in all our hearts."
"We are living in an age of new possibilities," he said. "Some people say we can never achieve our special destiny, but I say, in a world of new possibilities, guided by goodness, we can and we will."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Al Gore and Bill Bradley each had students among the audience that heard his attack on the other yesterday. Mr. Gore, in Davenport, Iowa, scoffed at Mr. Bradley's emphasis on a health care proposal, and Mr. Bradley, in Manchester, N.H., suggested that the vice president was little more than a tinkerer. (Larry Fisher/Quad City Times, via Associated Press)(Reuters)(pg. A16)

 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER (NH); DES MOINES (IOWA); NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; DEBATING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); CHILD POVERTY (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



110 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Reform Hasn't Eradicated Poverty

 BODY:

To the Editor:
You make the stunning assertion that Wisconsin's crusade to end welfare has "left far fewer people on welfare" and "put more people to work" (front page, Dec. 30). 
 I suggest that you consider at least one alternative theory for why people went from welfare to work.
Have you noticed that the United States has now experienced the greatest economic expansion ever? I would propose the obvious: that the lowest unemployment rate in the history of modern times is responsible for poor people's taking jobs. If the business cycle turns and sends unemployment back up, we will see if harsh welfare programs actually cause people to work. I suggest that neither whips nor hunger will move people to take nonexistent jobs.
 
DOUGLAS LASDON
Exec. Dir., Urban Justice Center
New York, Dec. 30, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN ; UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: LASDON, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



111 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
CRANDALL, ROLAND D.

 BODY:
CRANDALL-Roland D. Of Greenwich, Ct. on January 2, 2000. Survived by his wife Edna and his daughter Mary Ann. A graduate of Greenwich High School, he served in the Army Air Force 3 years stationed in India. Later graduated from the University of South Carolina in 1950 with a degree in Business/Economics. He joined Allen and Company Inc. as an investment banker in 1956. He served as a Director or Investment Banking Consultant to several publicly held companies. An avid sailor, he enjoyed cruising the northeast coast. He was a member of the New York and Old Greenwich Yacht Clubs. Memorial contributions may be made to the Association for Rescue at Sea, 231 W. Lockwood Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 63119. Services will be private. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (58%); MISSOURI, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ALLEN & CO INC (83%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (58%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); MISSOURI, USA (50%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); 

PERSON: CRANDALL, ROLAND D. CRANDALL-ROLAND D (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



112 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 6;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL AND SYRIA RETURN TO SEARCH FOR MAJOR ACCORD

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: SHEPHERDSTOWN, W.Va., Jan. 3

 BODY:
Talks between Israeli and Syrian leaders on a comprehensive peace accord opened today behind closed doors. The meetings began with a sense of urgency, American officials said, but they pointed to signs that the path would not be easy and that a single round of negotiations would probably not conclude the talks.
The discussion resumed where the parties left off three weeks ago in Washington, with both sides indicating a common determination to engage in days or weeks of round-the-clock discussions. 
 The thorniest issues are before them, involving security, borders, water rights and political relations.
In a sign of the difficulty of the talks, the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Barak, and the Syrian foreign minster, Farouk al-Shara, did not meet directly with each other at all today. President Clinton left Shepherdstown this evening after a second meeting with Mr. Shara, but without being host to a planned session that would have included the Israeli and Syrian leaders.
James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said he could not report any progress at the end of the day of discussions.
"These are very hard issues," Mr. Rubin said. "You can't have a fully scripted procedure with talks this complex."
President Clinton came by helicopter to open this round of talks between Mr. Barak and Mr. Shara, who made no public comment. President Clinton said through a spokesman only that he believed that the talks were "off to a good start."
The negotiations are being held in Shepherdstown, a tranquil town on the Potomac River about 70 miles from Washington. It was selected for its isolation, depriving the negotiators of distractions and increasing the pressure for serious talks.
American mediators have successfully used the technique of enforced isolation in Middle East peace talks before -- with Israelis and Egyptians at Camp David in 1978, and with Israelis and Palestinians at Wye River Plantation in 1998.
Israel has sent a delegation of about 55 officials, including David Levy, the foreign minister; Elyakim Rubinstein, the attorney general; Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, the minister of tourism and a former army chief of staff; Zvi Shtauber, the prime minister's security adviser; and dozens of lawyers, military officers and technical experts.
Syria's delegation consists of 25 to 30 officials, including two deputy foreign ministers, Yusuf Shakkur and Majeed Abusaleh, Syria's former ambassador to the United States, Walid Muallim, and several generals and legal advisers.
Hafez al-Assad, the president of Syria, is not attending this stage of the talks but his presence at a more decisive stage has not been ruled out. Mr. Assad has assured Mr. Clinton that Mr. Shara carries "plenipotentiary powers" to conclude an agreement with the Israelis, Mr. Rubin said.
American officials said that delegates were not being held incommunicado, but that the normally talkative Israelis had agreed to turn off their cellular telephones to lessen the possibility of news leaks. The Syrian government has never been particularly leak-prone.
The negotiations began at the National Conservation Training Center, which is operated by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Mr. Rubin and Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary, provided the only public information about today's meetings to members of the press, who are sequestered at Shepherd College.
Just before the talks started, Mr. Clinton strolled through the grounds of the training center with Mr. Barak on his right and Mr. Shara on his left. In what was clearly a made-for-television moment, the three leaders stepped onto a 200-foot-long pedestrian bridge over a 25-foot-deep gully, pausing about two-thirds of the way across to gaze out at the Potomac River about 300 yards to the north.
Cameras clicked and reporters shouted, but Mr. Clinton only smiled and waved. The three men then walked silently into the gray stone Commons Building, where Mr. Clinton met privately with each leader for about an hour to discuss a negotiating strategy for the next few days, officials said. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright also met individually with the Israeli and Syrian leaders.
The American team that is expected to remain behind for negotiations included Dennis Ross, the administration's special Middle East envoy, and his deputy, Aaron Miller; Martin Indyk, the assistant secretary of state for Middle Eastern affairs; Bruce Reidel, the senior director for Middle East policy at the National Security Council, and his deputy, Robert Malley; and a supporting cast of regional experts, note-takers and translators.
Lt. Gen. Donald Carrick, military adviser to Dr. Albright, was also present for today's talks, and additional Pentagon experts were expected to arrive on Tuesday as the parties begin to grapple with regional security arrangements and the expected United States role in monitoring them.
"In these negotiations the devil is in the details, and the detail men will be the men that are going to play a critical role," Mr. Rubin said. "And we do expect that during this round, that all of the issues, one way or another, will be discussed in detail. But that's a very different thing than expecting that, having discussed them, that they will achieve agreement."
No one would predict how long the talks here might last. Mr. Rubin said he packed enough clean shirts for "more than a week," and Mr. Barak is said to be willing to stay as long as two weeks if progress is evident.
Mr. Clinton has said he will return to Shepherdstown as often as is necessary to help resolve conflicts or to offer top-level assurances of America support for difficult concessions.
Beyond serving as mediator and broker for the talks, the United States is certain to emerge as guarantor and paymaster of any accord reached here. Israel is expected to ask for military upgrades to compensate for the loss of the strategic Golan Heights and economic aid to help pay for the resettlement of some 17,000 Israelis who moved into territories seized from Syria in the 1967 war.
Syria, for its part, is looking for a substantial package of economic and technical aid to boost its dormant economy and bring it into the age of computers and global trade.
The Clinton administration has not yet begun to consult with Congressional leaders on the terms of any new aid package for the Middle East. It is not certain whether the Republican-led Congress will agree to pick up some part the tab, which is estimated to be between $10 billion and $100 billion over the next several years.
"This is a big, big deal, and a deal this big is going to carry with it a price tag," Mr. Rubin said. "But we believe the peace is so important, and our vital interests could so be strengthened by a peace agreement, that it is worth our playing an important role."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about Israeli-Syrian peace talks in Shepherdstown, W.Va., misspelled the surname of a military adviser to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. He is Lt. Gen. Donald Kerrick, not Carrick.



GRAPHIC: 
 
 
Photos: President Clinton yesterday with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, left, and Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara of Syria in Shepherdstown, W.Va., as they prepared for a second round of peace negotiations. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); President Clinton met yesterday with Ehud Barak, the prime minister of Israel, above, and Farouk al-Shara, the foreign minister of Syria, as talks resumed in pursuit of a comprehensive peace accord after a three-week break. Later, Mr. Clinton said only that the negotiations were "off to a good start." (Photographs by the White House)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SYRIA (98%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (98%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); WATER RIGHTS (70%); ARMIES (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); LAWYERS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); EHUD BARAK (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



113 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: From the Pipeline To the Courtroom;
Gap on BP Amoco-ARCO Deal Is Wide

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Senators and governors from the West Coast and Alaska, as well as oil executives and lawyers, have been flocking to the Federal Trade Commission in recent weeks in what has quickly turned into one of the most contentious political and regulatory campaigns of the season.
Even as the F.T.C. approved the largest industrial merger in history a few weeks ago -- Exxon's $81 billion acquisition of Mobil -- the agency's staff recommended that a second large oil merger be blocked. Negotiations ensued among the Government and the two companies involved, BP Amoco and Atlantic Richfield. But the gap over the proposed $29 billion deal remains wide, with the companies and government officials unable to agree on what impact the merger would have on gasoline prices on the West Coast, the primary recipient of crude oil from Alaska's North Slope. 
 Both sides are preparing for what would be the biggest courtroom challenge to a corporate merger in American history. Yet even as they do so, the companies and their allies in Congress, in state capitals and from their Alaskan oil operations are waging an intensive lobbying effort to try to force a settlement.
As Robert Pitofsky, the F.T.C. chairman, ponders whether to try to block the deal, he has been besieged by hundreds of e-mail messages, telephone calls and visits from lawmakers, as well as an array of corporate executives and consumer groups. He has heard conflicting views about the deal from senators, governors and state officials from Alaska, California and Oregon, some lawmakers said.
"There is a full-court Congressional press to get this deal approved quickly from BP and ARCO and their supporters, folks who carry a tremendous amount of influence," said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. Mr. Wyden met recently with Mr. Pitofsky to present what he said was clear evidence of antitrust problems and to urge him to reject the merger on any terms.
The central issue is whether Alaska and the West Coast are such closely related markets that production in Alaska affects prices in California and neighboring states. While BP Amoco and ARCO pump more than 97 percent of the crude oil on the North Slope, they refine about 70 percent of the oil sold from the Alaska pipeline. F.T.C. officials have concluded that Alaska production and California prices are indeed closely related, while the companies and a number of private analysts maintain that prices on the West Coast are, instead, set by the world market.
Gov. Tony Knowles, Democrat of Alaska, joined by the state's two Republican senators, Frank H. Murkowski and Ted Stevens, has told F.T.C. officials that any delay in completing the merger could have a devastating effect on the state's economy. The state's oil production has sharply declined over the last decade, to 1.1 million barrels a day from more than 2 million, as prices have plummeted. New investment in exploration by BP Amoco holds the promise of sharply increasing supply and heading off thousands of layoffs, he said.
"I recognize that the F.T.C. has a different responsibility than we do," Governor Knowles said in a recent interview. "We also have a strong antitrust act. But I also have other concerns, such as the long-term health of the industry, and the economy of the state, and none of those are the responsibility of the F.T.C. They have just a narrow antitrust issue. Their focus is solely on the downstream, on the California gas pump."
Supporters of the deal say the commission's staff has fundamentally misunderstood the realities of the market, and there is no legitimate reason to fear that the domination of the oil fields on Alaska's North Slope by BP Amoco if it acquires ARCO would affect prices at gas stations on the West Coast.
"The government is talking ideology and theory, not reality," said Roger Diwan, managing director of the Petroleum Finance Company, an industry consultant in Washington. "There is no evidence of a connection between production in Alaska and the price in California." Mr. Diwan said gasoline prices were higher in California largely because of higher taxes and a state requirement that consumers buy cleaner, more expensive gas.
Critics of the deal reply that the ties between Alaska production and West Coast prices are obvious.
"The notion that there is no connection between the North Slope and Oregon is absolutely preposterous," Senator Wyden said. "It's laughable." He said Oregon was a good laboratory of how prices at the pump are dictated by North Slope crude. Oregon has neither California's high local taxes nor its requirements for cleaner gas, but prices are still among the nation's highest, by some calculations as much as 31 cents above the national average last year.
To satisfy the states, the two oil companies have offered a variety of benefits -- what one lawyer has called "grease" -- that have nothing to do with antitrust issues. They have pledged to spend at least $15 million to clean up "orphan" environmental sites caused by other companies. They have agreed to give $2 million annually, in perpetuity, to the University of Alaska. And they have vowed to raise their charitable contributions in California by more than 25 percent, to at least $100 million over the next decade. Sir John Browne, BP Amoco's chief executive, has also pledged to California's governor that he will continue ARCO's program of providing gasoline at lower prices than competitors.
The merger's critics, meanwhile, have been seeking to embolden the F.T.C. to take on the oil companies and undo the deals struck by state officials in Alaska and California. They say the deal would give the newly merged company a stranglehold on Alaskan production, leading inevitably to price gouging on the West Coast.
The commission, though, needs little to lift its confidence. It is coming off its strongest year in decades, exemplified in recent weeks by a stream of multibillion-dollar deals that failed after running into skepticism from antitrust officials. BP Amoco and ARCO executives insist they will not cave in, as the other companies did, and are so confident of their legal arguments and their view of the marketplace that they say it makes little sense to propose huge divestitures when the odds are strongly in favor of a court victory.
Officially, the F.T.C. and BP Amoco and ARCO are still negotiating, as government officials and the companies' executives try to reach an accommodation and close a deal that would greatly realign power over Alaska's vast reserves.
The decision is clearly in the hands of Mr. Pitofsky, a former antitrust law professor whose grip on his agency is perhaps best illustrated by his voting record. In his nearly five years on the job, he has not cast a single dissenting vote.
Lawyers and others who follow his agency closely say it is inconceivable that his staff would recommend barring the deal without coming to believe that such an action had the support of Mr. Pitofsky, who has taken an active role in negotiations with the companies.
In an interview, Mr. Pitofsky declined to answer questions about the merger. In general comments about the industry, though, he has hinted at his skepticism about the merger unless there are more significant divestitures. He noted in particular that the spate of oil mergers in recent years was reaching the point that requires particularly careful scrutiny.
"I don't think people understand how de-concentrated oil was just five years ago," he said. "It used to be that the top eight companies barely controlled even 40 or 50 percent of the market. Then Texaco and Shell did a joint marketing venture. BP merged with Amoco. Exxon bought Mobil to become Exxon Mobil. Now the top four firms have 40 to 50 percent of the market in the United States. We're approaching the zone of moderate to high concentration under the antitrust guidelines."
Senior executives at BP Amoco and ARCO were reluctant to talk publicly while the deal is pending. Privately, however, some executives expressed deep frustration and anger with Washington, saying they are the victims of a particular hostility toward big oil companies.
"There is a lot of anger and frustration, and a strong conviction that we have a strong legal case," one executive said. "There is a limit to how much this procrastination can go on. We have made it clear that we won't roll over and die."
The companies have also made it clear that since North Slope production is a crown jewel of the merger, they will not make any huge concessions beyond those already made to the state of Alaska. The largest concession is the divestiture of 175,000 barrels a day of the 800,000 they produce. That divestiture would leave the merged company -- which some in Washington refer to as BP ARCO, even though no official name has been settled on -- with about a 60 percent share of production, which is still too much for the F.T.C. The companies also say they have ameliorated any potential problems through long-term contracts with independent West Coast refiners for an additional 100,000 barrels or so a day.
Critics of the deal say Alaska's interests as the owner of the oil fields are different from those of West Coast states that consume the refined oil.
The commission's staff has apparently rejected the argument that Alaska and the West Coast have not been a single market for a long time. In making that argument, the companies have noted that the decline in North Slope production forced West Coast refiners to look to other sources for crude oil and that the government ended the ban on exports of Alaska crude to foreign countries three years ago.
As a result, the companies say, they have no power over West Coast prices because the market is competitive enough and refiners would look to other sources. In addition, ARCO has employed a highly successful strategy of marketing gasoline at a discount by using higher volumes and lower margins and has no interest in abandoning that strategy.
But skeptics of the deal, like Senator Wyden, Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, and a group of consumer organizations in Alaska and California, say the divestiture still leaves BP Amoco with too much control over North Slope crude, and would inevitably result in still higher prices on the West Coast.
Mr. Wyden said he had told Mr. Pitofsky the deal was fatally flawed, would do great harm to consumers in Oregon and adjoining states and could not be fixed.
"If Pitofsky is asked to approve it in some other form, they will have to attach so many conditions and riders that the F.T.C. would not have the resources to monitor it," he said. "The companies would run circles around everybody. It may be bad news now, but it would be even worse. We would need a new federal department of BP ARCO to supervise it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article and a chart in Business Day on Tuesday about the proposed merger between BP Amoco and Atlantic Richfield referred incorrectly to oil operations in Alaska. BP Amoco owns about 40 percent of the oil produced from the North Slope, not 36 percent; ARCO owns 30 percent, not 61 percent; Exxon Mobil and other oil companies own the remaining share. BP Amoco and ARCO have signed an agreement with Alaska to reduce their combined ownership to about 55 percent, not 60 percent, if the deal is approved.
The chart also misstated the amount of oil produced in Alaska. Through November last year, it was 350 million barrels, not 350 billion. Finally, the article misstated the percentage of oil refined by BP Amoco and ARCO in Alaska. ARCO refines about 34 percent and BP Amoco does not refine any; their total is not close to 70 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials in Alaska have told the Federal Trade Commission that a delay in completing the BP Amoco-ARCO merger could have a devastating effect on the state's economy. (Randy Brandon/AlaskaStock.com)
 
Chart: "Out of Alaska"
The Federal Trade Commission may block the proposed merger between the oil companies that pump nearly all of Alaska's oil. The dispute is over whether that dominance contributes to higher gas prices on the West Coast.
 
1999 CRUDE PRODUCTION -- Through November
 
BP AMOCO: 36%
ARCO: 61%
OTHER: 3%
 
TOTAL: 350 billion barrels of oil
 
Graph "PRICES AT THE PUMP" tracks the price of California reformulated unleaded, West Coast regular unleaded, and the National average regular unleaded since January 1998.
(Sources: Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission; Energy Information Administration)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1037 (90%); 104 P.L. 221 (90%); 

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (97%); WEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; EXXON CORP; MOBIL CORP; BP AMOCO PLC; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO) BP PLC (92%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (87%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (87%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; EXXON CORP; MOBIL CORP; BP AMOCO PLC; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO) FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (87%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (87%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; WESTERN STATES (US); ; UNITED STATES (97%); ALASKA, USA (97%); WEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUITS AND LITIGATION EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); HISTORY (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); LOBBYING (74%); LITIGATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN LISA MURKOWSKI (59%); RON WYDEN (59%); TED STEVENS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000



114 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Henry Fowler Is Dead at 91; Former Treasury Secretary

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Henry H. Fowler, who as Treasury Secretary in the Johnson administration helped raise the money to meet the soaring costs of the Vietnam War and who proposed what turned out to be the last Federal budget surplus in a generation, died on Monday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. He was 91.
A cherubic and courtly Virginian, Mr. Fowler, commonly called by his nickname, Joe, alternated a distinguished private law career with numerous influential Government posts over four decades. 
 He presided over fiscal policy at a time of major expansion of the Vietnam War, eventually lobbying vigorously in 1968 for a 10 percent tax increase that many analysts said should have been imposed sooner. President Lyndon B. Johnson's long insistence that the nation could afford both guns and butter is widely thought to have been a catalyst, along with the rise of OPEC, for much of the inflation that subsequently bedeviled the country.
His unwavering support of President Johnson, who contended that a tax increase could not be won in Congress, accounted for Mr. Fowler's delay in publicly favoring the higher taxes for which he is said to have pressed within the administration.
"He was a great loyalist," said Paul A. Volcker, then a Treasury official and later chairman of the Federal Reserve. "He wasn't going to get out of step with Johnson."
With the surcharge and spending cuts, the 1969 budget, which Mr. Fowler helped assemble, turned out to be the last one without a deficit until 1998.
In early 1968, the financially strapped administration became so alarmed about the country's trade imbalance that Mr. Fowler proposed a detailed plan to Congress to curb foreign travel by imposing a tax on spending outside the Western Hemisphere at rates of 15 or 30 percent, exempting only the first $7 a day. The levy was never adopted.
But with the dollar under attack and the nation's gold reserves dwindling, Mr. Fowler put forward a drastic plan to create a new reserve currency, later called special drawing rights, managed by the International Monetary Fund. S.D.R.'s, sometimes called paper gold, still exist, though their importance has waned since currencies were unhooked from the pegged system adopted toward the end of War World II that linked the major world currencies to the dollar and the dollar, in turn, to gold.
"He was always proudest of his being creator of the S.D.R.'s," said Roy C. Smith, a son-in-law, who teaches at New York University's Stern School of Business.
Another legacy was co-founding a precursor to what has become the annual economic summit meeting attended by top officials of the biggest Western countries plus Japan and, more recently, Russia. Mr. Fowler's 1967 suggestion for a "seminar" of five finance ministers to harmonize policies was promptly taken up by James Callaghan, then Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Mr. Fowler's tenure as Treasury Secretary also saw the replacement of America's largely silver coinage with the cupronickel "sandwiches" that still prevail. This action was forced when the market price of silver climbed enough to make it profitable to melt coins down.
Mr. Fowler resigned a month before Richard Nixon's inauguration as president in 1969 to give his deputy, Joseph W. Barr, a chance to serve briefly as Treasury Secretary.
Born in Roanoke, Va., the son of a railroad engineer, Mr. Fowler graduated from Roanoke College, earned law degrees at Yale University and in the years leading up to America's entry into World War II took a job as an apprentice with the noted Washington law firm of Covington & Burling. In 1934, he joined the legal staff of the Tennessee Valley Authority, where he helped in a long and ultimately successful defense of a constitutional challenge to the agency's electric power program. He met his future wife, Trudye Hathcote, from Amory, Miss., who was also working at T.V.A. headquarters in Knoxville, Tenn. They married in 1938.
Mr. Fowler served later as special counsel to the Federal Power Commission, negotiating arrangements with Canada and New York State for the St. Lawrence Seaway project.
During World War II, Mr. Fowler was assistant general counsel for the War Production Board and economic adviser to the American economic mission in London, which helped coordinate production and supply activities of the United States, Britain and Canada before and after the D-Day invasion.
At the end of the war, Mr. Fowler founded the Washington law firm of Fowler, Leva, Hawes & Symington, composed initially of former War Production Board colleagues.
His 14-year stint there was interrupted when he took a leave during the Korean War to head the Defense Production Administration and to serve as a member of the National Security Council and of President Truman's cabinet.
In 1961 he became Under Secretary of the Treasury, then the department's No. 2 post, before briefly rejoining his law firm in 1964 only to leave again when President Johnson named him Treasury Secretary in 1965 to succeed C. Douglas Dillon. Mr. Fowler is said to have been recommended by his longtime friend Sidney J. Weinberg, senior partner at the Wall Street investment company Goldman Sachs and an adviser to presidents since the 1930's.
Though he lacked banking credentials, Mr. Fowler held generally conservative views acceptable to the business community and was regarded as an effective politician, notably in helping win Congressional passage of tax-cut legislation in 1962 and 1964 as well as the 1968 increase.
A staunch Democrat long active in the politics of his home state, Mr. Fowler turned aside suggestions that he run for governor of Virginia against candidates supported by the state machine of Senator Harry F. Byrd, whom he strongly opposed. He was a delegate and alternate, respectively, to the Democratic National Conventions of 1956 and 1960.
At the state's 1956 Democratic convention, 9 of the 10 Congressional districts had supported a move to withdraw the state's support from the party's national ticket, headed by Adlai E. Stevenson, when delegates from Mr. Fowler's 10th District in northern Virginia cast their lone dissenting vote. This brought shouts of "Yankee go home" from supporters.
After Mr. Fowler left Washington in 1969, Mr. Weinberg recruited him to a partnership at Goldman Sachs, where he worked mainly to expand the firm's international operations and its dealings in government securities. He headed the Goldman Sachs International Corporation until 1984 and remained a limited partner until Goldman went public in May 1999.
Mr. Fowler is survived by his wife, two daughters, Marianne Fowler Smith of Montclair, N.J., and Susan Fowler-Gallagher of Staatsburg, N.Y., four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
How Mr. Fowler got his nickname, Joe, which he used to sign letters but declined to explain, is uncertain. According to one version, it was conferred on him as a teenager by a Greek-immigrant restaurant owner in his hometown who had difficulty pronouncing other American names. But Mr. Smith, his son-in-law, says it came about because Mr. Fowler was called "Gentleman Joe" or "Joe College" by Yale classmates.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Fowler, right, with President Johnson, was sworn in as Treasury Secretary in 1965. Mr. Fowler also served in the Truman administration. (United Press International)

 
 
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: THE LEVY RESTAURANTS (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, HENRY H; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR HENRY H FOWLER (95%); LYNDON B JOHNSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



115 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Construction In U.S. Surged For November

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Construction spending rose 2.6 percent in November, the biggest increase in 17 months, led by much higher government spending on highways and schools.
The Commerce Department reported today that the escalation in November followed three consecutive monthly declines. It was the largest advance since a 3.7 percent surge in June 1998. The big jump in building activity caught economists by surprise. They had been expecting a much smaller three-tenths of 1 percent advance for the month. 
 Many analysts said that the strength in construction, one of the economy's most interest-rate sensitive sectors, meant the Federal Reserve would feel compelled to raise interest rates further in coming months to slow down the economy.
Joel Naroff, an economist in Holland, Pa., said that the Fed would view November's construction report as a clear indication the three rate increases it delivered in 1999 were "not enough to overcome the demands created by the soaring economy."
Mr. Naroff predicted that the Fed would raise rates again in early February, its first meeting of the year.
The construction report showed widespread gains in both private and government building. Stan Shipley, an economist with Merrill Lynch, said he believed much of November's strength could be attributed to "unusually mild weather which boosted construction activity."
Private construction spending rose by 1.7 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $549.8 billion. That gain included a 1.1 percent increase in residential projects, with both single-family homes and apartment building showing increases.
Nonresidential activity was up an even stronger 3.3 percent, led by a 9.1 percent jump in spending in a category that includes commercial structures. Government construction spending was up 5.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $165.3 billion. Spending on highways jumped 11.5 percent, and spending for educational buildings was up 5.6 percent.
The overall increases in construction activity pushed total spending to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $715.1 billion in November, 5.1 percent higher than the November 1998 level of $680.1 billion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "Construction Spending" tracks total construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rate since June 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (79%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WEATHER (65%); 

PERSON: JOEL NAROFF (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



116 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Rise Sharply; Yield for the 30-Year Slides to 6.54%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices posted their biggest gains in more than two months yesterday as a drop in many stock averages worldwide and yields at 28-month highs attracted some investors.
Bonds "rose on the weakness in stocks," said Sherman Russ, who invests $22 billion at Pioneer Investment Management in Boston. "There's a bounce from yesterday because bonds got crushed." 
 Still, Mr. Russ is among those investors who predict that gains may be limited, with the Federal Reserve likely to raise interest rates more than once in coming months to cool the economy's growth.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 1/32, to 94 21/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.54 percent from 6.62 percent on Monday.
Bonds rose as many major stock market averages around the world fell, increasing the allure of Treasuries offering yields at more than two-year highs. European stocks suffered their biggest drop in 15 months, led by an almost 5 percent slump in the Netherlands' benchmark index. In the United States, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Dow Jones industrial average each fell more than 3 percent, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped more than 5 percent.
On a relative basis, high stock prices make bonds look more attractive, especially since 1999 was the worst year for Treasuries since 1994, said Mark Stumpp, a senior managing director who helps manage $40 billion in stocks and bonds at Prudential Investments.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures
 
Price: 94.292
High Rate: 5.64%
Coupon Yield: 5.99%
Low Rate: 5.55%
Median Rate: 5.63%
Total applied for: $30,491,466
Accepted: $14,940,866
Noncompetitive: $918,275
 
The one-year bills mature Jan. 4, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (69%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT U S (58%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SGR SPA (58%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); 

PERSON: SHERMAN RUSS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



117 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Yankees Hire New Aide For Arbitration Cases

BYLINE: By BUSTER OLNEY 

 BODY:
Randy L. Levine is stepping down as deputy mayor and will receive an important-sounding title from the Yankees soon -- club president, perhaps. But he might as well be knighted and known as Sir Randy, for as Yankee employees have learned over the years, titles do not mean anything in the organization.
What matters is that Levine has influence with George Steinbrenner, the principal owner. So until that changes, Levine will play a major role in the organization. No one else in the organization knows exactly what Levine's responsibilities will entail, but Steinbrenner likes the 44-year-old lawyer, so Steinbrenner hired him. 
 "This is a classic George move," said one club official.
The announcement on Levine's hiring will come just in time for the forthcoming arbitration season. Today is the first day eligible players can apply for arbitration, a process that promises to be expensive for the Yankees this year.
Shortstop Derek Jeter and closer Mariano Rivera, probably the team's two best players, are eligible for arbitration, along with pitchers Ramiro Mendoza and Jason Grimsley and catcher Jorge Posada.
Last year, the Yankees had the only two arbitration losses suffered by teams, both with stunning results: Jeter won $5 million, a record for players with three years of service time, and Rivera was awarded $4.25 million. Following their arbitration victories, Jeter continued to establish himself as one of the game's best players -- with more career hits in his first four seasons (795) than Pete Rose, Ty Cobb or Henry Aaron -- and Rivera became the game's best reliever, going through the last three and one-half months of the season without allowing a run.
The arbitration decisions last year infuriated Steinbrenner, who essentially has blamed General Manager Brian Cashman. As a result, Levine will likely play a leading role in dealing with the arbitration cases.
The Yankees have had cursory discussions with Jeter, Rivera and the other eligible players about long-term deals. The Yankees may meet face to face in the next few days with Jeter's agent, Casey Close. Rivera has indicated he will do whatever it takes to stay with the Yankees, but signing Jeter to a long-term deal in the near future could be extremely difficult because the perspectives of the two sides on fair-market value could be radically different.
Sometime in the next year, either Ken Griffey Jr. or shortstop Alex Rodriguez, both eligible for free agency this fall, may become the first players to sign contracts for more than $125 million. If Jeter waits for free agency after the 2001 season, he might get as much or more. Steinbrenner, on the other hand, has been uniformly conservative in his long-term offers to arbitration-eligible players, and as long as he does not sign Jeter to a multiyear deal, Steinbrenner will maintain the flexibility of his own budget.
The relationship between Bernie Williams and the team was strained when the center fielder went through arbitration. Williams felt slighted as the Yankees' officials debated just how good Williams was, and how much he was worth. Williams almost left the team as a free agent before agreeing to a seven-year, $87.5 million deal in November 1998.
There does not seem to be any similar contentiousness developing between the Yankees and Jeter. No one has any doubt that Jeter is going to be a great player for a long time, and in turn Jeter appears to take the situation in stride, realizing that no matter what happens, he is going to make a lot of money.
"He's fine with it," Close said. "He understands and he's well aware of the business side of the game, the economic side. He's not upset by it."
The Mets also have a handful of arbitration cases, including pitchers Armando Benitez and Rick Reed and shortstop Rey Ordonez. Players and teams will exchange proposed salary figures Jan. 18, before a schedule of hearings will be set. Unless a settlement is reached before a hearing, an arbitrator will choose the salary proposed either by a team, or the player.
 
INSIDE PITCH
The Yankees will wait until spring training to complete the HIDEKI IRABU trade with the Montreal Expos, but an official in Major League Baseball said the Yankees are strongly considering taking JEREMY POWELL as one of the players to be named. Powell, 23, spent most of last season pitching in the majors, compiling a 4.73 earned run average in 97 innings for the Expos. Powell is 6 feet 6 inches and 225 pounds, and throws hard. Several scouts who have seen him pitch believe he is on the cusp of developing into a solid major league pitcher. The Yankees want to wait until the end of spring training to complete their selection of Powell -- they are considering another pitcher, as well -- to protect themselves against the possibility of injury and so they can do more extensive scouting. The Yankees, who also acquired the sinkerballer JAKE WESTBROOK in the deal, will be allowed to take a third player who is of lesser value than Westbrook or Powell. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEPUTY MAYORS ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); POLITICS (73%); LAWYERS (68%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RANDY L (DEPUTY MAYOR) DEREK JETER (79%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



118 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Best Bet

BYLINE: By Boris Nemtsov and Ian Bremmer; Boris Nemtsov is a member of the Russian parliament and a former first deputy prime minister. Ian Bremmer is president of Eurasia Group.

 BODY:
Vladimir Putin has seamlessly replaced Boris Yeltsin as leader of Russia, moving quickly to take advantage of his high approval ratings and his party's bolstered support in parliament. This is quite an accomplishment for a government that lacked a popular mandate only a month ago.
Yet many in the United States have expressed doubts about Russia's new acting president. 
For one, it has been widely noted that Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. officer, was a virtual unknown until Mr. Yeltsin made him his prime minister in August and that his Unity Party did not even exist then. The truth is, being an unknown is not only a distinct political advantage in Russia, it was a necessity for Mr. Putin, who had to amass credible popular support in a political culture tarred by cynicism and disillusionment. He neither made nor carried out government policies in the last few years, so he wasn't responsible for any of the mistakes.
Some critics have questioned Mr. Putin's commitment to democracy. True, he is no liberal democrat, domestically or internationally. Under his leadership Russia will not become France. The government will, however, reflect the Russian people's desire for a strong state, a functioning economy, and an end to tolerance for robber barons -- in short, a "ruble stops here" attitude. Russia could do considerably worse than have a leader with an unwavering commitment to the national interest.
And it is difficult to see how to do better.
Russia's neighbors grasp the importance of this point. The other former Soviet republics lauded Mr. Putin's appointment, mostly because of the pragmatism he demonstrated when serving as secretary of Russia's security council. His reaction to the formation of the "counter-Russia" alliance of Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Moldova was to state that Russia should craft a regional policy palatable to its neighbors.
In addition, Mr. Putin's vocal support for a free-market economy boosted the prospects of reform candidates in the parliamentary elections last month and provided a firm footing for meaningful economic reform to be passed this year.
The reformers are back. Given that the Communists' support comes overwhelmingly from those over the age of 50, the party's clout will diminish with each passing year. December's elections were undoubtedly the last in which the Communists will receive a plurality.
At the same time, a new middle class led by small- and medium-sized business owners is beginning to assert itself. And Russia is finally developing a political system that can begin to shape the direction of change instead of simply damming its tide.
A framework for real market democracy -- property rights especially -- can now be put in place, making entrepreneurialism less expensive and therefore less beholden to the oligarchs who held far too much sway under Mr. Yeltsin.
This maturation should gradually continue, eventually leading to stable parties with consistent platforms, a system of checks and balances and a real separation of powers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: THE COMMUNISTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE COMMUNISTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); 

PERSON: NEMTSOV, BORIS; BREMMER, IAN; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



119 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
A Leap in the Dark

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Economists have a rather Zen-like view of stocks. They believe that investors are rational, and that stock prices are therefore unpredictable. It sounds peculiar, but the logic is ironclad. Rational investors would take into account everything they know -- all the information available about where profits, interest rates, technology and so on are going -- when buying or selling stock. So stock prices would already reflect all available knowledge, and would change only when new information came in. And new information is, by definition, unpredictable -- otherwise it wouldn't be new -- which means that changes in stock prices would be unpredictable too. Q.E.D.
Except, of course, that real investors aren't entirely rational. Being human, they are driven by fear, greed and the madness of crowds. In principle this should create patterns in stock prices, and in principle you can use those patterns to outperform the market. Good luck. But while it may be very hard to tell whether the market is overvalued or undervalued (remember that Alan Greenspan warned of "irrational exuberance" when the Dow was at about 6,500), one thing is for sure: It fluctuates more than it should. That is, instead of rising or falling only when there is real news about the future, stocks surge and plunge for no good reason. People sell because other people are selling, or buy because other people are buying. (It's called "momentum investing" when the market is rising; it's called "panic" when the market is falling.) And as a result it's more a series of random leaps than a random walk. 
 And yesterday, of course, was a case in point. On what was basically a slow news day, markets suddenly dived, with the Dow falling more than 3 percent and the Nasdaq more than 5. It didn't rate some of the headlines it generated -- when a market that has risen around 90 percent over the previous year falls 6 percent, this is not exactly a "meltdown" -- but it was a pretty big movement to occur without anything happening to change your fundamental view about what is going on in the U.S. economy. (O.K., one group of investment analysts released a report predicting higher interest rates over the next year -- but there was no particular reason to think that these analysts knew anything that the rest of us don't.)
Why was the market so easily spooked? Presumably because everyone -- me included -- is even more confused than usual about what stocks are really worth these days. On one side, the U.S. economy has been practically wallowing in good news for the last few years: productivity has been soaring, allowing the economy to grow far faster than seemed possible without running out of labor, and anyway we seem to have mysteriously acquired the ability to employ people previously regarded as marginal without setting off a bidding war for the more obviously qualified workers. And with clever new applications of silicon chips coming out every day, it is easy to become, well, exuberant about the future.
On the other hand, as any financial theorist could tell you, good news that you already expect to hear isn't news. Five years ago, a 2 percent annual increase in worker productivity would have been regarded as excellent, and stocks would have risen sharply on the report; today it would be regarded as a disappointing performance, and would drive stocks down. In fact, current stock prices already have built in the expectation of economic performance that not long ago we would have considered incredible; performance that is merely terrific would be seen as a big letdown.
So which will it be -- terrific or incredible? We all have our opinions -- being a pessimist by nature, I think that things will be merely terrific -- but nobody, and I mean nobody, really knows. And a rational market would accept this ignorance, and wait for some actual evidence in favor of one side or the other.
Of course, it doesn't work that way. Yesterday, something -- if I knew what, I would be a lot richer -- caused investors to become slightly less convinced than they had been the day before that we are living in the best of all possible worlds. And the result was a huge destruction of paper -- um, I mean virtual -- wealth.
But hey, it's still a terrific economy. Or do I mean incredible? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



120 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Ecuador's Currency Falls as the Government Examines Its Options

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Ecuador's volatile currency, the sucre, tumbled more than 10 percent today on concerns that President Jamil Mahuad's government is failing to take steps to defend the currency as the economy rapidly deteriorates.
It took 24,168 sucre to buy $1, according to an average quote on the currency by five banks. The currency traded Monday at 21,650 a dollar, the banks said. 
 "Everyone was expecting the central bank to take some action, but it hasn't. This is fueling uncertainty in the exchange rate," said Rodrigo Lopez, an analyst at Banco Aserval in Quito. "Something must be done to control the exchange rate."
The central bank, which had been expected to comment today, said it may issue a statement or hold a news conference on Wednesday. Bank officials met with Mr. Mahuad today to find a way to halt the sucre's plunge. The currency has lost 27 percent of its value since Dec. 22.
Some investors said Ecuador may scrap the sucre and "dollarize" the economy by enacting a system used in Argentina that locks the domestic currency to the value of the dollar.
Under that system, known as a currency board, all money in circulation must be backed by an equal amount in dollar reserves. In Argentina, a currency board stopped the country's hyperinflation and allowed it to report one of the lowest inflation rates and highest growth rates in the world in the 1990s.
But others said Ecuador, which is heavily in debt, does not have enough dollars in reserve to make such a drastic change.
"These options depend on you having enough dollars for people to get their hands on and Ecuador probably has nowhere close to enough," said Michael Henry, an analyst at ING Barings in New York. Instead, Quito may opt to impose a fixed exchange rate and foreign currency controls, he said.
The sucre's latest slide is linked to increasing investor skepticism that the government will be able to rescue the economy from its worst recession in 70 years.
Ecuador's economy shrank 7.1 percent in 1999's third quarter from a year earlier and consumer prices rose 60.7 percent last year, the highest inflation rate since 1988.
With the sucre falling so rapidly, the country is fast hurtling toward hyperinflation and economic collapse, and investors and economists are losing hope for a recovery this year, analysts said.
"The situation is critical. I don't think there's going to be a reactivation this year," said Maria de la Paz Vela, an economist with Multiplica, a research organization in Quito. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (99%); ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (58%); 

COMPANY: ING BARINGS LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; ECUADOR (99%); ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); QUITO, ECUADOR (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CURRENCIES (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); INFLATION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); 

PERSON: MAHUAD, JAMIL (PRES) JAMIL MAHUAD (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



121 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Western Opposition Defeats Croatia's Ruling Nationalists

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Croatia, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Croatia's center-left opposition won a sweeping victory in parliamentary elections on Monday, official results indicated today. The elections delivered a rebuke to the governing party and opens up the prospect of much warmer ties with the West.
The opposition victory dethroned the Croatian Democratic Union, the umbrella nationalist party founded by Franjo Tudjman, the president who died last month. The party has ruled Croatia since Mr. Tudjman took the country to independence in 1991 out of the wreckage of Tito's Yugoslavia. 
 With nearly 99 percent of the vote counted today, the main opposition bloc had won 9 of 11 multimember constituencies. The bloc consists of the Social Democrats, led by the former Communist Party leader Ivica Racan, and the Social Liberals, led by the former dissident Drazen Budisa.
Mr. Racan, 55, who will become prime minister, will also have the voting support of a smaller coalition of another four parties.
Their victory was immediately hailed by the Clinton administration and the European Union as a breakthrough in the difficult transition to democracy of the republics of the former Yugoslavia.
At their headquarters, Mr. Racan and Mr. Budisa raised their arms high as supporters cheered. Mr. Racan said: "We were aware of people's feelings. We'll do our best to justify their confidence."
But he added later, "We will need a lot of sacrifices on all sides in order to turn things around soon."
Mr. Tudjman's party conceded defeat, but the exact size of its embarrassment is subject to a complicated system of proportional representation. It is made even more complex by a constituency made of the Croatian diaspora -- mostly Bosnian Croats and emigres who maintain dual citizenships. Five seats in Parliament are also guaranteed to ethnic minorities.
The state television projected that the results would give the Racan-Budisa alliance some 70 seats in a 152-seat Parliament, meaning that they would need the support of the coalition of four other opposition parties, which is projected to take 24 seats.
The Croatian Democratic Union would have some 48 seats, a figure that benefited from the emigre vote.
But even in a bloc the six opposition parties would not have the two-thirds of Parliament needed to pass constitutional changes, like their goal of diminishing presidential power, and they will need the cooperation of a chastened Croatian Democratic Union.
Turnout was high among the 4.2 million registered voters.
"We have lost the election, but I pledge that we shall be a very serious and firm opposition," Foreign Minister Mate Granic of the defeated governing party said today. "Any party that loses elections must hold an emergency congress and elect a completely new leadership."
Tonight Mr. Granic, a moderate in the party and Washington's favorite to succeed Mr. Tudjman in a separate election on Jan. 24, was selected as the party's presidential candidate.
That he was chosen indicates the humbling of the party, since it refused to nominate him before. But the size of the party's defeat is likely to hurt his chances. It may also accelerate the breakup of the party.
The main opposition candidate will be Mr. Budisa, in what will be a crowded field. A runoff election on Feb. 7 is likely to be necessary for any candidate to win the required majority.
Under the Constitution, devised by and for Mr. Tudjman, the powers given the president are nearly monarchical. The opposition wants the country to become more of a parliamentary democracy.
Under Mr. Tudjman, Croatia slipped into economic decline, with high unemployment and widespread allegations of corruption, the issues that fed the opposition victory. But Croatia was also run as a nominally democratic autocracy, with power concentrated in the presidency and the governing party, and there were strict controls over the state television in the style of neighboring Serbia, run by Slobodan Milosevic.
In interviews, Mr. Racan has promised freedom of the press, respect for human rights and more cooperation with the West over Bosnia and with the international tribunal looking into war crimes in the former Yugoslavia. In the past, Croatia has been reluctant to hand over wanted suspects, though it has cooperated well compared with Serbia.
Mr. Tudjman himself had a contentious relationship with Washington and the West. His nationalism was expressed loudly, and he meddled in Bosnia, promoting a separate Croatian entity while formally supporting the Muslim-Croat federation that Washington imposed on him.
He saw plots to undermine Croatian independence and sovereignty and organized intelligence networks both here and in Bosnia to spy on Western diplomats, journalists, businessmen and aid workers.
Mr. Racan says he does not share such suspicions, although he is careful not to offend the nationalist streak in the Croatian public. But his government is likely to mean an early rapprochement with the West and the European Union, with the Europeans resuming aid and offering to study Croatia's application to join.
Washington is also likely to provide more economic aid and allow Croatia to join NATO's so-called Partnership for Peace, an association of countries that coordinates security policy with the alliance.
Mr. Racan also promises a politically painful economic program, with a 17 percent cut in budgetary spending, a reduction of onerous taxes, a more open and honest privatization of state industries and banks and efforts to reduce unemployment, which exceeds 20 percent. He says he will cut some official salaries in half, including those of legislators.
The Clinton administration hopes the victory of the opposition, which it has supported, will be a model for the squabbling democrats in Serbia. But Mr. Milosevic, only 58, is in good health and in control of all the levers of state power.
Washington urged unity on the opposition here and provided significant advice and aid, directly and indirectly. With this victory, it is expected that Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright will make an early visit to Zagreb. That would be a sharp contrast to the low level of American diplomatic representation at Mr. Tudjman's funeral.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CROATIA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA; CROATIA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CROATIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); ETHNICITY (50%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; TUDJMAN, FRANJO; RACAN, IVICA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



122 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: States Gather Big Surpluses, Benefit of a Strong Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Buoyed by revenues from a strong economy, states have accumulated large surpluses, are cutting taxes and plan to increase spending for education and health care this year.
In a new report, the National Governors' Association said 36 states had surpluses equal to 5 percent or more of their spending. 
 State surpluses totaled $35 billion at the end of the 1999 fiscal year, and states expect to wind up the current fiscal year with more than $27 billion in surpluses.
In the last year, 42 states cut taxes. And a separate survey by the National Conference of State Legislatures says that at least one-fourth of the states are seriously considering tax cuts this year. Governors or legislative leaders have proposed such cuts in Alaska, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Maryland, Minnesota, New York, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Utah and Wyoming.
The conference of state legislatures said states had cut taxes in each of the last five years. William T. Pound, executive director of the conference, said: "For the sixth year in a row, states are expecting to see continued sound fiscal health. This unprecedented streak is the fiscal equivalent of defying gravity."
In Massachusetts, State Senator Mark C. Montigny, a Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said, "We're in about the strongest financial position we've been in." Mr. Montigny said the state had a comfortable cushion in its unemployment fund and its budget stabilization fund, enough to carry it through a recession, should one occur.
The last recession ended in March 1991, and President Clinton often says that the nation will set a record next month for "the longest economic expansion in the history of our country."
In this year's elections, politicians from both parties are stressing their commitment to tax cuts.
Gov. Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, a Democrat running for the Senate seat held for 29 years by William V. Roth Jr., a Republican, boasts that Delaware has cut personal or business taxes for seven years in a row.
Stacey R. Mazer, a fiscal analyst at the National Association of State Budget Officers, said states were using more of their surplus money for construction of roads and schools this year. By contrast, she said, in the last few years, they set aside more of the money in "rainy day" funds, which can be used in time of economic trouble. But having made provision for a rainy day, states say they can now use their surpluses for other purposes.
Gov. Roy Barnes of Georgia, a Democrat, asked the State Legislature on Monday to use some of the state's $648 million surplus to improve education and health care, and he is also proposing a cut in property taxes.
"We have been blessed with unprecedented prosperity," Mr. Barnes said. "One way to help keep Georgia prosperous is to let taxpayers keep more of their hard-earned money."
The New York State Legislature convenes on Wednesday, and members say they expect a surplus of $1 billion or more in the fiscal year that ends March 31. That does not include a surplus of $1.8 billion that accumulated in the prior fiscal year and is being used to pay for property tax cuts.
In New York, as in many states, legislators would like to use some of the surplus for programs popular with voters. But independent budget monitors, including bond-rating agencies, have expressed concern that tax cuts already enacted in New York could hamper the state's ability to deliver services, particularly if there is an economic downturn. Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, is expected to plead with lawmakers to set aside much of the surplus as a hedge against such a downturn.
In California, the Legislature convened this week, with state officials projecting a budget surplus of at least $2.6 billion for the current fiscal year. And they foresee a $3 billion surplus for the next year.
How to use such surpluses will be a major issue for lawmakers in California and other states. State legislatures begin their regular sessions this month in 36 states. Legislators convene in eight more states in February, March or April.
Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the National Governors' Association, said that Medicaid costs were surging again, after several years of slow growth in the health program for low-income people. Spending on prescription drugs is a major reason for the increase, he said.
The survey by the governors' association found that states cut taxes last year by a total of $5.2 billion. Texas reported the biggest cut, $1.9 billion, followed by Florida ($834 million), Minnesota ($796 million), Michigan ($497 million), Pennsylvania ($407 million), Ohio ($337 million) and California ($302 million).
Property tax relief and other tax cuts were a major element of Gov. George W. Bush's legislative program in Texas last year. And they are a major element of the record on which he is running for president.
New York reported a tax cut of $99 million, while New Jersey cut taxes by $101 million and Connecticut cut $104 million.
Illinois reported the biggest net increase in revenues, $436 million, mainly because it increased motor vehicle registration fees, to help finance public works projects. New Hampshire, Oregon and Tennessee also increased taxes, the governors' association said.
The governors said 10 states had taken action to change the amount of cash payments to families on welfare in the current fiscal year. Nine states -- California, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Montana, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas and West Virginia -- increased benefits for at least some welfare recipients. Florida was the only state that reported a reduction in cash assistance benefits, a 15 percent decrease.
In 40 states, the report said, welfare benefit levels remain the same as in 1999. In general, it said, states are making fundamental changes in the structure of welfare programs without altering benefit levels. The number of people on welfare has plummeted, by 51 percent since January 1993, but spending for welfare and child care has increased. As a result, states say, they now spend more for each family on welfare, on the average, than they did seven years ago.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "LEDGER: State Budgets in the Black"
All of the states are running budget surpluses, and 39 states have a surplus of more than 5 percent of their spending. Balances reflect both year-end balances and "rainy-day" funds. The map shows the budget balance as a percentage of spending (based on appropriations for fiscal year 2000). (Source: National Association of State Budget Officers)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN MARK C HULSE (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RECESSION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (63%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (78%); TOM CARPER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



123 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Italy Opens North Korea Ties, First by a Big Western Nation

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME, Jan. 4

 BODY:
To help end North Korea's isolation, Italy announced today that it was opening diplomatic relations with the hard-line Communist nation, becoming the first member of the Group of Seven industrial nations to do so.
The announcement marked a significant shift in North Korea's relationship with the rest of the world. North Korea, sometimes known as the "hermit nation," has long held out complete self-reliance as part of its state ideology. But natural disasters and the failure of its collective farming policy in recent years caused widespread famine, forcing the government to accept foreign aid and some kind of relationship with the West. Last month, Japan lifted sanctions against North Korea, a step that was seen as a preparation for normalizing relations. 
 The announcement today took North Korea a full step further. "This happened as a conjunction of the West's need to end North Korea's dangerous isolation, and North Korea's need to feed itself," explained an Italian Foreign Ministry official who asked not to be identified.
The Italian government is not, however, the first European country to open diplomatic relations with North Korea. Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Austria and Portugal have taken the step. But Italy is the first member of the Group of 7 industrial nations to do so, and took the lead among them almost as a point of foreign policy pride.
"Italy can and does serve as an ice-breaker in international affairs," the Italian official said. "It's the Dini doctrine." He was referring to Lamberto Dini, Italy's foreign minister, who recently brokered reconciliation pacts with two other rogue nations, Iran and Libya. Italy had strong economic ties to those two countries, which have rich oil resources. So far, at least, Rome has negligible trade with Pyongyang.
James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, responded today by saying, "Our view has been that each country has to make its own decision on how to proceed toward a more normal relationship with North Korea, as North Korea meets the international community's concerns on the nuclear and the missile front."
Italian government officials said that they had informed the United States and South Korea of their overtures to the North Koreans in advance, and that they received full support. "The West realizes that an isolated North Korea, with its nuclear potential and missile technology, poses a real risk," the Foreign Ministry official said.
He said Mr. Dini had discussed his overtures with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright during a conference in Florence in October. He raised it with his South Korean counterpart at a gathering in Istanbul in November. "Italy has been trying to bring North Korea back to ordinary business for some time," the Foreign Ministry official said. "But it is not an isolated policy; it is a widely shared strategy."
Mr. Dini met today with Kim Hung Rim, North Korea's representative to the Food and Agriculture Organization, a United Nations agency based in Rome. After the meeting, Mr. Kim told Reuters, "We will do all that is possible to develop and intensify bilateral relations and cooperation and exchanges in the international community."
He said a decision on whether the F.A.O. mission could be upgraded to embassy status would be made "as soon as possible." Italy said it would use its Beijing mission as a conduit for relations with North Korea.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: ITALY (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); AUSTRIA (55%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (70%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN ITALIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN ITALIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; ITALY; SOUTH KOREA; ITALY (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); AUSTRIA (55%); ROME, ITALY (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (70%); 

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ITALY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FAMINE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%); NATURAL DISASTERS (56%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; DINI, LAMBERTO (MIN) LAMBERTO DINI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



124 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Will Drop Most of Trade Protest Cases

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Seattle officials said today that they were dropping all but about 40 of the unresolved misdemeanor cases stemming from the tumultuous street protests of the World Trade Organization meeting here a month ago.
At least a few protesters said they opposed the city's move because they hoped to use their trials to showcase the city's mishandling of the demonstrations, which grew so raucous and tense that the National Guard was called in and the police used tear gas and rubber pellets to disperse the crowds. 
 All told, there were about 600 arrests during the protests, which began on Nov. 30 and continued for much of the week, attracting an estimated 35,000 demonstrators who contend that the global trade organization undermines health, labor and environmental standards.
A small number of people, many of them self-described anarchists, used the protests to smash windows, spray-paint graffiti and loot stores downtown. City officials said felony charges would not be dismissed against those protesters.
Of 525 people who faced misdemeanor charges, about 210 have had their cases resolved through "guilty pleas, diversions and dismissals," the city attorney, Mark Sidran, said in a statement released today.
But for most of the remaining cases, Mr. Sidran said, prosecutors decided it would be difficult to prove the charges. In many cases, demonstrators were rounded up and bused for mass processing, but a trial would probably require that an individual officer provide evidence of why a particular protester had been arrested. Complicating matters further, many protesters did not initially give their real names to the police, instead identifying themselves only as John Doe, Jane WTO or, in at least one case, Emiliano Zapata.
There was sufficient evidence to meet the legal standard for arresting and charging the protesters, Mr. Sidran said, but "a review of available evidence has led to the conclusion that the prosecution would be unable to meet its burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt."
For some protesters, and perhaps for the city at large, still struggling to move beyond what was largely considered to be a civic fiasco, the dismissal of charges was treated as good news. But some protesters said they were disappointed because they wanted to be put on trial.
"I was looking forward to it, on a personal level," said David Hyde, 27, a graduate student in political sociology at the University of Washington, who was arrested on Dec. 1 for failure to disperse and pedestrian interference (blocking the street), which were by far the two most common misdemeanor charges lodged against protesters. "At a trial I would have liked to talk about free speech and the suppression of free speech that happened here, and the sorts of parallels that suppression has to the way the World Trade Organization works."
Still, other protesters and their lawyers said they were glad to learn of the dismissals, which they said simply buttressed their contention that the charges never should have been brought in the first place.
"There were so many things that were wrong in this situation," said Michael Kolker, the lawyer for two defendants whose charges are almost certain to be dropped under the terms of today's announcement. "The mayor was wrong to issue the no-protest-zone order, the Seattle police were wrong to arrest people pursuant to the order, and then the city attorney's office was wrong to pursue the charges. The police reports were totally inadequate and confusing and mixed-up and basically totally meaningless."
The no-protest zone, covering about 30 downtown blocks, was ordered by Mayor Paul Schell, a move that civil-liberties groups here still hope to have ruled unconstitutional.
The dismissals will hardly bring closure to the riots, a source of continuing civic angst. The City Council is beginning inquiries and other legal cases are pending, including the constitutional challenge to Mayor Schell's no-protest order.
Several protesters and bystanders say they plan to sue the city for mistreatment by the police, and some police officers in turn have said they will sue the city for leaving them ill-equipped to deal with the throngs. The heads of two major police officers' organizations have called for Mr. Schell to resign, which he says he has no intention of doing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The police cracked down on protesters a month ago in Seattle. (Associated Press)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (96%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (96%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); MISDEMEANORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); VANDALISM (78%); GRAFFITI (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CITIES (77%); RIOTS (76%); FELONIES (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); SOCIOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MARK SIDRAN (71%); PAUL SCHELL (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



125 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Bradley Attacks Corporate Tax Loopholes

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: BEDFORD, N.H., Jan. 4

 BODY:
Former Senator Bill Bradley campaigned today for tax fairness, saying that "when somebody hires a lobbyist to get something in the code to reduce their corporate taxes, that means the rest of us pay more."
Mr. Bradley, an architect of the 1986 law that closed loopholes and reduced tax rates, reminded voters of that populist part of his record before sketching a plan to raise an estimated $125 billion over 10 years. 
 "I spent an incredible amount of effort," he said, on closing loopholes for individuals. "Then the tax shelter specialists moved to the corporate side."
Although he described today's plan as the "elimination of loopholes," $100 billion, or four-fifths of his savings, would be raised through better enforcement efforts and more frequent audits of corporations.
"We're in this time of unprecedented economic growth," he said, "and yet corporate tax revenues have dropped in the past two years."
Mr. Bradley said he would not use the additional revenue for a tax cut but as part of the general fund. He said his object was not the money, but "tax fairness."
Besides more frequent audits, Mr. Bradley proposed requiring companies to account for differences between the income reported to stockholders and the income reported to the I.R.S. He also proposed a ban on contingency fees for lawyers offering advice on federal taxes.
Of the remaining $25 billion he said his plan would raise, $20 billion would come from reviving the Superfund tax on chemical companies. That $2 billion a year tax expired in 1995 after Senate Republicans filibustered against an extension.
Mr. Bradley suggested that unregulated financial contributions to political parties, or soft money, from chemical companies had influenced that Congressional inaction, and he called for repeal of three other tax provisions that he said soft money had influenced.
One, costing $270 million over 10 years, made it easier for a company to avoid United States taxes by crediting profits to foreign subsidiaries.
Two others, costing about $2 billion over 10 years, favored oil and gas companies. One reduced the amount of intangible drilling costs subject to the alternative minimum tax. The other was a credit for enhanced oil recovery costs.
Then Mr. Bradley said he would raise a final $2 billion by unspecified charges for hard-rock mining on public lands and by increasing the livestock grazing fee on public lands.
He said that as president he "might be revisiting" other elements of the tax code to eliminate unfairness. But he said "I would not revisit the subsidy for ethanol," a corn-based fuel produced in Iowa, whose caucuses on Jan. 24 precede the New Hampshire primary by eight days. Before he ran for president, Mr. Bradley opposed the subsidy.
Mr. Bradley, a defender of the drug industry in Congress, fought against eliminating a large tax break for pharmaceutical companies in Puerto Rico, a fact that the Gore campaign recalled today.
"Let's remember," said Chris Lehane, a Gore spokesman, "that in 1992 and 1993, Bill Bradley supported a special-interest tax loophole that was a boondoggle for the pharmaceutical industry and then-Senator Gore voted against that in 1992."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a campaign stop in New Hampshire, former Senator Bill Bradley was surrounded yesterday at a business luncheon where he announced his plans to close corporate tax loopholes and raise $125 billion over 10 years. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CORPORATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (66%); OIL EXTRACTION (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); CHEMICALS (64%); CHEMICALS MFG (64%); ALCOHOLS (64%); ETHANOL (62%); BIOFUELS (60%); STONE MINING & QUARRYING (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BRADLEY, BILL BILL BRADLEY (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



126 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Sears Expects Robust Earnings, But Analysts Doubt a Recovery

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Sears, Roebuck & Company said yesterday that its fourth-quarter earnings would sharply exceed expectations, but analysts cautioned against characterizing the anticipated profit increase as a sign that the troubled merchant had turned its fortunes around.
Sears, based in Hoffman Estates, Ill., will not disclose its earnings until later this month, though it said it expected them to rise by as much as 20 percent compared with the results in the quarter a year earlier. 
 But the expected profits at Sears, the nation's second-largest retailer, would not come from increased sales. In fact, in the critical holiday-shopping month of December, Sears said sales in stores open at least a year declined six-tenths of 1 percent, while the rest of the industry saw a robust rise around 6 percent. Instead, the company attributed the windfall to decisions not to offer steep cuts in prices to promote merchandise, as it did the previous Christmas, and to improvements in its credit card operations.
"We are seeing improved margin performance in our full-line stores, strong performance in our international and credit businesses, as well as solid results from our cost-containment measures," Arthur C. Martinez, the company's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
Shares of Sears rose $1.50 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, to $31.5625.
While analysts credited the company with efficient cost-cutting and promotional sales, many questioned whether such measures could sustain earnings growth this year. Despite Sears's attempts to revamp its clothing offerings to make them more fashionable and appealing, apparel sales have continued to be disappointing. The company has fared better in electronics and home furnishings, but it faces increasingly harsh competition from both chains like Circuit City and discounters like Target, a unit of Dayton Hudson.
Analysts indicated they would have to see evidence that Sears had stanched the loss of market share before they could be bullish on the stock. "At the end of day, investors have to see top-line growth," said George Strachan of Goldman, Sachs.
Sears credited the improvements in its credit card business primarily to a robust economy. With more money in their wallets, fewer customers were defaulting on card payments or not paying their bills on time. In November, Sears raised the late fee on its card -- the penalty charged customers who fail to pay a bill on time for the second time -- to $25 from $20. Such an increase could encourage further compliance from cardholders in the future but did not affect the fourth quarter, the company said.
But analysts, most of whom estimated that the improvements in the credit card division accounted for about 50 percent of the earnings increase, worried that such income could quickly disappear if the Federal Reserve raises interest rates and the economy slows. "We are entering a period of possible credit crunch," said Richard Church, a retail analyst with Salomon Smith Barney. "How will Sears weather that if it materializes?"
The company has a history of relying on credit card revenue to bolster its bottom line in troubled times. Looking to increase lagging sales when he joined the company from Saks Fifth Avenue in 1992, Mr. Martinez relaxed its standards and offered credit cards to shoppers with lower incomes who were higher credit risks. Sales of merchandise skyrocketed, but so did defaults on bills. By 1998, 7.3 percent of cardholders were not paying their bills.
Flooded in red ink, Sears began to lean heavily on customers who owed money. Last February, it pleaded guilty to federal changes that it had illegally forced cardholders who had filed for personal bankruptcy to pay their Sears debts anyway.
About 62 million American households have Sears credit cards, making Sears the second-largest card issuer behind GE Capital, according to the Nilson Report, a credit industry newsletter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (71%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (71%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (96%); TARGET CORP (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); EXECUTIVES (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



127 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Hail to the Fed Chief (for Now, at Least);
Can Greenspan Maintain Investor Support if the Economy Sputters?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
THE best time to leave the stage, the theory holds, is when the audience is clamoring for more. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and a man currently beloved by investors, is about to test that theory.
President Clinton yesterday nominated Mr. Greenspan to a fourth term as chairman of the nation's central bank, well ahead of the June 20 expiration of his current term. The nomination, which was surprising only in its timing, was enthusiastically received by stock and bond market strategists who give Mr. Greenspan much of the credit for the prosperity enjoyed by most investors and consumers in the United States. 
 Nevertheless, the news that Mr. Greenspan would stay on at the Fed was not enough to overcome widespread fears on Wall Street that rising interest rates would put a crimp in corporate profits. Those worries contributed to a sharp decline in all the major stock indexes. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 359.58 points yesterday, a 3.17 percent drop, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 5.55 percent. Long-term bond yields stood at 6.54 percent yesterday, up from 6.25 one month ago.
Mr. Greenspan's accomplishments as Fed chairman for the last 12 years are impressive. He followed Paul A. Volcker, the legendarily laconic cigar-smoking central banker who helped crush inflation by sending interest rates to punishing levels and presiding over the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.
But Mr. Greenspan, in steering the economy safely through both smooth and treacherous waters since 1987, has probably become the first central banker to be given true celebrity status.
His open approach to policy making -- telegraphing moves the Fed is planning to make well before the board makes them -- has been copied by central bankers around the world. And the confidence he has earned from investors who believe that Mr. Greenspan will be able to meet whatever challenge lies ahead of him, has made him perhaps the most effective Fed chairman ever.
"A lot of people, even the libertarian economists who don't even like the Fed, will tell you that Alan Greenspan is perhaps the best chairman the Fed has ever had," said Richard Sylla, a financial historian at New York University's Stern School of Business.
And yet, most market strategists agree that the challenges facing Mr. Greenspan this year rank among the most formidable he has had to meet during his tenure at the Fed. Although he is adored at the moment, all his fine work could be forgotten if he is unable to walk the tightrope of maintaining economic growth while keeping inflation low.
"The Federal Reserve has a very challenging position to attack at this stage," said James E. Moltz, vice chairman of International Strategy and Investment, an investment research firm in New York. "Clearly the economy is strong and the financial markets have been exceedingly robust. But the pace that both the economy and the market are moving in are not sustainable long-term. As you try to cool that off, it's a very delicate process."
How delicate that process is will be topic A when the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee meets on Feb. 1 and Feb. 2 to discuss monetary policy in the first of eight sessions scheduled this year. At that meeting, the Fed is widely expected to raise the benchmark federal funds rate, currently at 5.5 percent, by one-quarter of one percentage point in what would be its fourth interest rate increase since June.
When Mr. Greenspan took command of the Fed in August 1987, the stock-market crash, which took blue-chip stocks down more than 500 points, or about 23 percent, in a single day of trading, was just two months away. His response to the crisis was to flood the banking system with funds, ensuring that credit was readily available to all who needed it. This kept the economy from stumbling and, as a result, the crash did not lead to a immediate recession. Mr. Greenspan had aced his first test.
The next crisis the Fed chairman faced was the recession of the early 1990's, when the nation's financial institutions were teetering on the edge of insolvency. Mr. Greenspan slashed interest rates, allowing the banks to shore up their balance sheets by borrowing from the Fed at 3 percent and investing in government bonds paying 5 percent. Thus, he is credited with engineering the recovery of the 1990's and helping to lay the groundwork for what will be the longest economic expansion in the nation's history as of next month.
Mr. Greenspan's handling of the global economic downturn that began in Asia in 1997 and spread to Russia and Latin America a year later also earned kudos. By cutting interest rates three times in 1998, he sent a signal that the Fed was there to prevent any fallout from the Asian financial panic from hitting American shores.
When stock prices pulled out of their dive in the fall of 1998, Mr. Greenspan's popularity on Wall Street was secured. And, as stock prices climbed ever higher, investors loved him even more.
"The market falls in love with Fed chairmen and probably ascribes greater wisdom to them than they deserve," said Byron R. Wien, chief United States strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "Nevetheless, Alan Greenspan has been a remarkably balanced and sensitive Fed chairman."
Indeed, the fact that Mr. Greenspan is not a rigid adherent to any particular monetary policy ideology has helped convince investors that he will do whatever is necessary to maintain the stability of the financial system.
One of his hallmarks has been the way he and other members of the Fed go out of their way to clearly warn investors well in advance of interest rate moves. Before Mr. Greenspan's tenure, Federal Reserve policy and its imminent moves were considered a closely guarded secret. And Mr. Greenspan also learned from his mistake in springing an interest rate increase on the markets immediately after taking office in August 1987.
"He has changed the way central banking has been done in the past 10 years," said Stan Jonas, managing director of Fimat U.S.A., a broker-dealer in New York that specializes in futures and derivatives. "He's been much more specific and open; he has made the Fed a much more predicable entity."
In so doing, Mr. Greenspan's Fed has effectively let the bond market take the lead in enforcing monetary policy. This helps the Fed by making its interest rate moves more acceptable to investors when they do come. Other Fed chairmen have been more proactive, often surprising the markets with their moves.
The danger in letting the bond market take the lead on monetary policy comes when investors begin to believe the Fed is not acting quickly enough to fight resurging inflation.
"The negative catalyst that historically has been the most powerful in the stock market is the perception that the Fed is behind the curve and that interest rate increases will be more numerous and last longer than people thought," said Christine A. Callies, the chief United States market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
One of these periods may be just beginning. Gemma Wright, senior interest rate strategist at Aubrey G. Lanston, an investment firm in New York, believes that the Fed is going to try to slow the economy from a growth rate in excess of 5 percent lately to a pace closer to the 3 percent to 3.5 percent that it views as noninflationary.
"This gets a little trickier now because of the global economic rebound we're beginning to see," Ms. Wright said. "As economies in Europe and Asia re-emerge, that's going to mean another year and a half of fairly vigilant monetary policy."
While the bond market is ready for such vigilance, the stock market may not be. If a series of interest rate increases push down stock prices, that will sorely test investors' ardor for Mr. Greenspan. As a result, he might come to wish he had left the stage when stocks were at their headiest and the applause was at its loudest.
"The job of the Federal Reserve chairman is not to win a popularity contest," said Mr. Sylla, the N.Y.U. professor. "If he's doing his job he should be somewhat unpopular some of the time. Greenspan has been almost too popular and that's a tribute to what a good job he's done. If he continues to do a good job, he's likely to be less popular."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); (Associated Press); (Agence France-Presse)
 
Chart/Photos: "Mr. Greenspan's Wild Ride"
After a rocky start with the October 1987 stock market crash, Alan Greenspan, in 12 years as chairman of the Federal Reserve, has presided over one of the greatest Wall Street booms of all time. Meanwhile, the nation's economy, except for a relatively brief recession in 1990-91, has chalked up impressive gains as both unemployment and inflation have fallen to lows not seen since the 1960's.
 
A HARD ACT TO FOLLOW
Mr. Greenspan, selected by President Ronald Reagan to succeed Paul A. Volcker at the helm of the Fed, was sworn into office on August 11, 1987.
 
DOW 5,000
Traders at the New York Stock Exchange celebrated when the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 5,000 on Nov. 21, 1995.
 
'IRRATIONAL EXUBERANCE'
The market deflated briefly on Dec. 6, 1996, after Mr. Greenspan hinted that he was worried investors had pushed stocks too high.
 
REWARDED WITH A FOURTH TERM
Yesterday, President Clinton nominated Mr. Greenspan, who is 73, to serve another four years as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, saying his wise and steady leadership has inspired confidence, not only here in America but all around the world. The move is widely expected to be approved by the Senate.
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Haver Analytics)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones Industrial Average, weekly, since July 3, 1987.
 
Graph tracks the unemployment rate and the change in consumer prices from previous december since 1987.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STOCK INDEXES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); HISTORY (60%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MORGENSON, GRETCHEN ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ROBERT W BEST (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



128 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Williams College to Keep Costs Unchanged

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
After a decade of booming growth in the endowments of elite colleges -- and public outcry over the high cost of attending them -- Williams College announced yesterday that it would keep tuition, room, board and fees unchanged next year, becoming the first highly selective institution to do so in decades.
The move by Williams, a small liberal arts school in western Massachusetts, was hailed as "bold" and "dramatic" by experts in higher education. Several predicted that competing institutions, including those in the Ivy League, would soon follow suit. While no elite college in at least a generation has kept total costs flat for two consecutive years -- Williams last did so in 1954 -- the rate of increases has been falling, in part because of growing outrage over the staggering prices at prestigious campuses. 
 The complaints have become trickier for officials as the soaring stock market has propelled endowments to unprecedented levels.
"It gets harder every year to write a convincing letter to parents saying that we just have to do this, particularly in the face of these endowment runups," said David W. Breneman, dean of the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia. "I absolutely think it's about time."
The endowment at Williams has tripled, to more than $1 billion from $333 million, since 1990, while tuition and fees have risen to $31,520 a year from $20,760 (41 percent of the students get financial aid), a pattern similar to its competitors. Administrators said the decision not to increase the price in the coming year, which was announced in a letter as the campus reopened for the winter term, was simply an effort to share the college's wealth with its current students.
"Here we are in a low inflation cycle with our endowment increasing and our contributions from alumni being very strong," Carl W. Vogt, the interim college president, said in an interview. "This just seems a logical move for us."
Other colleges and universities have frozen or even reduced costs in recent years -- Muskingum College in New Concord, Ohio, cut its tuition by $4,650 in 1996 -- but it has typically represented an effort by a struggling institution to attract more students. Williams has no such need: last year there were 5,000 applicants for 500 slots, more than at almost any other time in the college's 207-year history.
But with Congress having established a special commission on the cost of higher education in 1998, even the most competitive colleges have been searching for ways to make themselves more affordable.
Several Ivy League institutions decided not to count the value of a family home when assessing students' ability to pay, and Princeton recently promised to provide grants rather than loans for all students from families with incomes below the national median.
With state governments flush with surpluses, California, Massachusetts and Virginia recently lowered tuition at some of their public universities, while New York, Mississippi and Oregon have kept fees steady at some of their institutions.
"The fact is that the rate of increase in tuition and fees has been declining almost throughout the entire decade," said Stanley O. Ikenberry, president of the American Council on Education, a coalition of the nation's colleges and universities. "I think this will raise the competitive stakes for other institutions to work even harder to contain costs for themselves and the costs they pass on to their students."
According to the College Board, the average overall price for four-year private colleges has risen 29 percent since 1989, to $21,339 this year from $16,538. Last year's average increase was 4.3 percent.
Top-tier institutions have seen smaller increases -- Williams's price tag rose 3.75 percent last year and 3.5 percent the year before -- on a larger base. Among the college's competitors are Amherst ($31,690), Middlebury ($31,600), Pomona ($30,920), Swarthmore ($31,690) and Wesleyan ($31,630). Ivy League prices range from $32,243 at Cornell to $34,898 at Princeton.
These are the institutions that have also enjoyed remarkable growth in gifts and ballooning investments because of the strong economy. College and university endowments totaled $178 billion in 1998, with 31 institutions, or 6.1 percent, having assets of more than $1 billion each, according to the National Association of College and University Budget Officers.
"Students ask all the time, 'We're sitting on all this money, why don't we spend it?' " said Benjamin Katz, a junior at Williams who is the editor of the campus newspaper, The Record. "This is finally an answer to that question."
But Albert Leatherman, co-president of the Williams student body, said the endowment would be better spent diversifying the Williams student body with more financial aid.
"I don't think it's any act of generosity or Williams going out of its way to make the college more affordable, it's just a fact of the American boom," said Mr. Leatherman, a senior from Moorefield, W. Va. "A more extraordinary announcement would have been they're hiring more faculty, or they're going to give a free ride to 100 students from Appalachia or South Africa or inner-city blacks, something like that. That's the school's challenge."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Bold Decision to Share"
A steady rise in investments, due to increasing endowments and alumni contributions, is allowing Williams College to keep prices constant in the coming academic year. The first graph shows year-end value of investments* (endowment and similar funds). The second graph shows the comprehensive price (tuition, room, board and fees) since 1990.
*As of June 30 (Source: Williams College)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS COLLEGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE (95%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILLIAMS COLLEGE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TUITION TUITION FEES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); FAMILY (72%); HOME PRICES (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



129 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Another Term for Mr. Greenspan

 BODY:
Most economists believe Alan Greenspan is more responsible for the economy's spectacular performance than Congress, Presidents Bush and Clinton or any other identifiable factor. Under his leadership the Federal Reserve Board has driven inflation and unemployment down to 30-year lows. Mr. Greenspan is widely regarded as one of the most successful chairmen in the history of the Fed. Yesterday President Clinton wisely nominated him to a fourth term, ending disruptive speculation that he might decide to appoint someone else.
When Mr. Greenspan took over the Fed in 1987, unemployment was above 6 percent and inflation exceeded 4 percent. Twelve years later, the inflation rate -- the one economic outcome for which the Fed is entirely responsible -- has fallen to about 2 percent, about as low as many economists deem advisable. Interest rates have fallen significantly, and unemployment is at its lowest level in decades, around 4 percent. 
 Mr. Greenspan has been both lucky and very astute. He did not produce the low foreign oil prices or higher productivity growth that have occurred during his tenure. That was merely good fortune. But by setting clear objectives and exercising smart judgment, he let the economy take full advantage of both trends.
Most important, he settled on one clear and unvarying objective. His goal is low, steady inflation, and he has not allowed the Fed to become sidetracked by focusing on foreign exchange rates, stock prices or the growth rate of the economy.
Next, points out Mickey Levy, chief economist at the Bank of America, he has exercised timely judgment. In the early 1990's, when the banks were in atrocious financial condition, he manipulated the money supply to keep interest rates, and therefore their borrowing costs, low. When the banks recovered in 1994, he raised rates back to sustainable levels. In 1996 and 1997, when the economy grew faster than the Fed's economic models thought possible without igniting inflation, Mr. Greenspan did not crack down. He chose instead to wait until the threatened inflation actually appeared. It never did, so he had given the economy leeway to produce millions of jobs that few economists thought possible.
In 1998 the Fed reduced rates to inoculate the economy against the financial crisis sweeping across Asia. Then last year it raised rates once the Asian threat dissolved. The upshot of these successful decisions is that investors trust Mr. Greenspan. They do not overreact -- driving interest rates higher and aborting recoveries -- at the first sign of inflationary pressure because they trust that he will keep inflation in check.
Mr. Greenspan did not create the labor markets that have allowed unemployment to fall to its lowest levels since the 1960's without setting wages ablaze. But he was wise enough to sit back while unemployment fell to levels that most economists thought unsafe and that would have driven most of his predecessors to take anti-growth actions. He thereby discovered, and proved to the world, that the American economy could do better than nearly everyone thought possible. Yesterday Mr. Clinton assured that his careful stewardship of the economy will continue. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



130 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: ENDORSED BY DOLE, BUSH STEPS UP RUN IN NEW HAMPSHIRE

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL with FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 4

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush today showcased the endorsement of his onetime rival Elizabeth Dole and sparred with Senator John McCain over the size and scope of their competing tax cut proposals, putting an aggressive new face on a campaign that even some supporters have criticized as lackluster.
The day's events stepped up the struggle for the Republican presidential nomination and most particularly the battle for New Hampshire, where the Texas governor has lost a once-formidable lead. Some recent polls have shown Mr. McCain surging to become the front-runner here, though a new poll here now puts the two men in a dead heat in the nation's first primary state. 
 With the governor facing second-guessing here about whether he approached New Hampshire with too much confidence, Mr. Bush and his aides clearly saw Mrs. Dole's willingness to stand smiling at his side today as a coup, and they deliberately staged it for his first full day of campaigning after the holidays.
In addition, Mrs. Dole's remarks seemed intended to address another frequent criticism of Mr. Bush: that he lacks the seasoning or grasp of the issues to become the next president. Comparing him to President Ronald Reagan, Mrs. Dole described Mr. Bush as a formidable politician whose strength and sense of purpose should not be taken lightly.
"He made a career out of being underestimated," Mrs. Dole said of Mr. Reagan, whose name she invoked five times in a speech that dovetailed with the themes and priorities of the Bush campaign.
"Today, we rally to another Western governor," Mrs. Dole said, "just as bold in challenging the status quo, just as resolved to restore pride in our institutions, just as determined to be himself."
Before dropping out of the race for the Republican nomination in late October, Mrs. Dole waged the most serious campaign for the presidency that any woman ever had, and she placed second to Mr. Bush in many national polls of Republican voters.
She is thought to have a particular appeal to women, independents and moderates, who could give Mr. Bush a boost both in New Hampshire and in the general election.
"From the first day I announced my candidacy," Mr. Bush said, "I said that I would run a different campaign -- one that attracts new faces and new voices to the conservative cause of the Republican Party. Elizabeth Dole brought many new faces and new voices into the party, and the political process is better for it."
Mr. McCain, who appeared at a series of town hall meetings today in New Hampshire, played down the endorsement, even though he had faithfully campaigned at Bob Dole's side in Mr. Dole's losing 1996 presidential effort.
"I fully expect the establishment to be supportive of Governor Bush," Mr. McCain said, casting himself as the candidate challenging the status quo. He said that he and Mr. Dole "remain the closest of friends" but that he would not ask for his endorsement. Mr. Dole, even as his wife was running, once said he had thought about donating money to Mr. McCain, but he is now not expected to endorse anyone.
In her appearance with Mr. Bush, Mrs. Dole sidestepped the question about whether her husband agreed with her endorsement. "He was very supportive of my decision," she said.
Mr. Bush's aides had promised that he would begin this year by drawing sharper distinctions between himself and the Arizona senator, who has emerged as his chief rival. That effort became visible today when Mr. Bush brought up tax cutting after a reporter asked when he would start drawing contrasts.
Mr. Bush has called for a $483 billion tax cut over five years and said he would provide more tax relief for those in the middle class than Mr. McCain would. Mr. McCain has suggested that the Bush plan is too generous to the rich and could be too costly for the government.
"He's called my plan too big," Mr. Bush said, referring to Mr. McCain. "So has Vice President Gore. I believe my plan is not only just right; it's realistic, it can get done and it's going to make a big difference for the future of the country."
Mr. Bush said his plan was the one that would help the middle class. "This stands in contrast," he said, "to a tax plan that doesn't address the middle class, the person making $50,000 with a family of four in New Hampshire." He specified that under his plan, that family would pay $2,000 less in taxes; Bush aides say that under a plan outlined by Mr. McCain this summer, that family would get only $200.
Mr. McCain is to put out a full tax cut plan next week, but over the summer he proposed a number of tax cuts including an expansion of the lowest, 15 percent tax bracket. That bracket currently applies, for example, to married couples earning up to $42,350 a year. Mr. McCain would raise that to $70,000.
Told of Mr. Bush's remarks, Mr. McCain countered by criticizing his opponent's proposal as tilted toward the wealthy and said it could endanger the future solvency of Social Security if the economy was not as robust as now expected. "If all of the surplus is used for tax cuts, then if the economy doesn't continue to improve, then we would have to take money out of the Social Security trust fund and/or increase payroll taxes," he said. "I'm not prepared to do that."
Mr. McCain also said that in Mr. Bush's plan "60 percent of the tax cuts are for the wealthiest 10 percent of America." He added: "I don't think that's necessary. I want the tax cuts for lower- and middle-income Americans."
While Mr. Bush would reserve the $2 trillion Social Security surplus for the retirement system, Mr. McCain proposes using it plus 62 percent of the non-Social Security surplus -- roughly another $620 billion over 10 years -- to pay for a revamped system including personal accounts. That approach leaves Mr. McCain with relatively little money out of the general surplus for tax cuts.
Today for the first time he said that his plan would allow people to put 20 percent of the amount they pay in Social Security payroll taxes into private investments.
So while Mr. Bush is choosing a traditional route of appealing to Republicans through sweeping tax cuts, Mr. McCain is betting that in a time of prosperity, shoring up Social Security will trump Mr. Bush's tax plan even among the Republican faithful.
Mr. McCain also sought today to draw his own distinction with Mr. Bush over taxation of sales on the Internet, repeating that he adamantly opposes taxation of Internet purchases. He said sales taxes would have cost on-line consumers $561 million over this past holiday alone, when purchasing through the Internet amounted to $11 billion.
Most governors oppose a ban on taxes on Internet purchases because they fear it would drain sales tax revenues. Mr. Bush has simply said he favors an extension of the current moratorium on such taxation in order to study the issue. The McCain campaign plans to begin print advertising this week in New Hampshire newspapers to highlight the issue.
After announcing Mrs. Dole's endorsement this morning in a speech in Bedford, N.H., Mr. Bush and Mrs. Dole flew to Iowa for appearances in a state whose caucuses on Jan. 24 will be the first vote of the 2000 campaign.
In Des Moines, Mrs. Dole touched on many of the subjects that she mentioned in New Hampshire, but added another thought. "On a personal note, Governor Bush and I share a deep personal faith and a belief in the power of prayer," she said. "I admire the governor as he speaks of the importance of God in his own life." It was in Iowa a few weeks ago that Mr. Bush, after being asked what philosopher-thinker most affected his life, said Jesus Christ.
Mrs. Dole's endorsement of Mr. Bush today immediately raised speculation that she would be considered for Mr. Bush's running mate. But Mr. Bush said it was too early to ask about Mrs. Dole's chances. Mrs. Dole said it would be premature to say whether she wanted the job.
And, when asked about her tougher position than Mr. Bush's on gun control or her complaints about being unable to compete with his fund-raising when she left the race, she simply beamed and insisted she was his ardent and loyal fan.
Later in Iowa, Mr. Bush referred to her position as Secretary of Transportation under President Reagan: "She would say, 'I'm a lieutenant in Ronald Reagan's army.' Well, Elizabeth, you've got a promotion. You're a general in my army."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John McCain at one of a series of town hall meetings he attended in New Hampshire yesterday. (Associated Press); George W. Bush and his aides clearly saw Elizabeth Dole's willingness to stand smiling at his side in New Hampshire yesterday as a coup. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; IOWA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENDORSEMENTS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MITCHELL, ALISON; BRUNI, FRANK; DOLE, ELIZABETH; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) ELIZABETH DOLE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



131 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: GREENSPAN NAMED TO A FOURTH TERM AS FED CHAIRMAN

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
President Clinton nominated Alan Greenspan today to a fourth four-year term as chairman of the Federal Reserve, insuring that a familiar hand will continue steering the economy even as a new administration takes office next year.
Three weeks after John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, first broached the subject confidentially with Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Clinton formally asked the Fed chairman to stay on during a meeting this morning. Mr. Greenspan, who is 73, immediately said yes. 
 White House aides said Mr. Clinton had never considered naming anyone other than Mr. Greenspan to the post, though administration officials had sounded out Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, at the time he left Washington last summer. Mr. Rubin expressed no interest, they said.
Leaders of both parties in the Senate welcomed the nomination and said Mr. Greenspan was likely to be confirmed without any problem.
While a slowing economy might hurt Vice President Al Gore's presidential campaign, Mr. Gore has publicly backed Mr. Greenspan's reappointment for months. The two leading Republican contenders, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and Senator John McCain of Arizona, also supported keeping Mr. Greenspan in the job.
The news was also applauded by economists on Wall Street, which has always loved Mr. Greenspan for the prosperity he has nurtured even as it has viewed less charitably his suggestions that stocks are overvalued. Still, the announcement did nothing to halt the stomach-churning drop in equities, which was driven in part by concern among investors that Mr. Greenspan would raise interest rates again next month to slow the economy and avert a buildup of inflation.
The president's decision was an entirely expected reward for Mr. Greenspan, whose inflation-fighting efforts are widely credited with providing the foundation for the long economic expansion and, today's setback aside, the record-setting bull market.
By all accounts, Mr. Greenspan has had a close relationship with Mr. Clinton and his economic policy team. The administration has always been careful to respect the Fed's independence, and in return Mr. Clinton has reaped the political rewards that derive from low inflation and interest rates.
But in reappointing Mr. Greenspan six months before his term as chairman expires in June, Mr. Clinton was also bowing to the reality that Mr. Greenspan has become an institution in his own right, one whose support runs so broadly and deeply in Washington and on Wall Street that the White House was under increasing pressure to make its decision known.
In a sense, Mr. Greenspan has become the very embodiment of the nation's economic vibrancy, a figure who transcends his own partisan background as a conservative Republican and one whose influence and visibility extends far beyond the world of finance.
With the Fed chairman standing at his side during a brief session with reporters, Mr. Clinton praised Mr. Greenspan for his role in nurturing an expansion that next month will become the longest in the nation's history, with all the benefits it has brought in low unemployment, rising wages and reduced welfare rolls.
"Clearly, wise leadership from the Fed has played a very large role in our strong economy," Mr. Clinton said. "That is why today I am pleased to announce my decision to renominate Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board."
Mr. Clinton said that Mr. Greenspan's "wise and steady leadership" had been "good not just for the American economy and the mavens of finance on Wall Street," but also for ordinary Americans.
Mr. Greenspan in turn warmly praised Mr. Clinton and his top economic aides, with whom he has worked closely in overhauling the nation's banking laws, containing the global financial crisis that rocked Asia several years ago and monitoring the rapid changes that technology has brought to the economy.
Mr. Greenspan suggested today that his enthusiasm for his job was undiminished, saying he would never tire of trolling through esoteric data and testing theory against the real world. "It's like eating peanuts," Mr. Greenspan said. "You keep doing it, keep doing it, and you never get tired, because the future is always, ultimately, unknowable."
One effect of reappointing Mr. Greenspan so early was to free the Fed to proceed with whatever decisions it makes about interest rates in coming months without creating the impression that the chairman's job might hinge on the outcome.
Most analysts now expect the Fed to raise its Federal funds target rate by a quarter of a percentage point next month, to 5.75 percent, and to continue raising rates later in the year if the economy does not show clear signs of slowing.
Today, Governor Bush said: "I have long urged President Clinton to reappoint Alan Greenspan, and so I applaud the decision."
Senator McCain also praised Mr. Clinton's decision. "I'm totally in favor of that and I believe most Americans share admiration and appreciation for Mr. Greenspan's beneficial effects on our economy and the country," he said.
Mr. Gore's rival in the Democratic primaries, former Senator Bill Bradley, has been lukewarm about Mr. Greenspan. The most outspoken critic of Mr. Greenspan in the presidential race has been Steve Forbes, a Republican, who says Mr. Greenspan has been too quick to sacrifice growth and too slow to recognize that there is no inflation in the economy.
Indeed, while he has never faced the kind of criticism directed at his predecessor, Paul A. Volcker, who brought double-digit percentile inflation under control in the early 1980's, Mr. Greenspan has never won universal plaudits. Labor groups, farmers and manufacturers have always questioned whether Mr. Greenspan is too focused on the Fed's mandate to achieve price stability and not enough on promoting growth and addressing its other statutory goal of seeking maximum employment.
But Mr. Greenspan has spent more than a dozen years building his credibility, starting soon after he took the job, when he faced his first test, the stock-market crash of October 1987. He responded by making credit easily available to the financial system, helping to avert any major crisis. He later helped steer the banking system through a period of hard times brought about by huge loan losses, especially on real estate.
During 1998, he played a key role in containing the global financial crisis, in particular by engineering a series of three quick rate cuts that helped keep the financial system in the United States from seizing up.
But Mr. Greenspan, who views his job almost as an intellectual quest, has probably been most influential in recognizing the sweeping effects that technology is having on the economy and adjusting monetary policy to take account of the changes.
Although he long had a reputation as an unyielding, orthodox inflation fighter in the mold of Mr. Volcker, Mr. Greenspan has never been wedded to any single model of how the economy works, and in the last few years he has proven remarkably flexible in his approach.
Rather than adhering to the traditional view that there was a level of unemployment below which a growing economy would inevitably generate inflation, Mr. Greenspan noted that businesses had grown far better at cutting costs, in large part because of their massive investments in computers and other technology.
As a result, Mr. Greenspan allowed the economy to grow at a robust pace, driving the unemployment rate down through all the traditional danger zones without any evidence that inflation was taking root.
Now, with unemployment hovering at slightly more than 4 percent and growth still running strong, even Mr. Greenspan appears to think that the economy is reaching its limits.
"To me, Greenspan's greatest contribution has been his willingness to let the unemployment rate ratchet downward without quickly jumping on the brakes," said C. Fred Bergsten, the director of the Institute for International Economics, a research organization in Washington. "It's a truly historic contribution that has changed the face not just of monetary policy but of our economy and its prospects."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, in the Oval Office yesterday. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (74%); JOHN MCCAIN (74%); JOHN PODESTA (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



132 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stock Prices Fall Sharply; Nasdaq Index Is Down 5.6%
Stock prices fell sharply in the United States and Europe, with the main American gauges falling by at least 3 percent. Concerns over higher interest rates, end-of-year tax moves and investing strategies were cited as factors in the decline. 
 In its worst day since the fall of 1998, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 359.58 points, or 3.2 percent, to 10,997.93. The Nasdaq composite index fell 229.46 points, or 5.6 percent, to 3,901.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 55.8 points, or 3.8 percent, to 1,399.42. The yield on the 30-year Treasury fell to 6.54 percent from 6.62 percent on Monday. Page A1.
 
Alan Greenspan was nominated by the president to a fourth four-year term as chairman of the Federal Reserve. A1.
 
G.M. Begins a Discount Campaign
A new and potentially costly marketing struggle broke out in the auto industry as General Motors announced it would mail out discount coupons on almost all of its vehicles. Several other automakers said their sales remained fairly strong in December, capping a record year for carmakers. C2.
 
Village Voice Sold to Investor Group
The Village Voice has been sold for $150 million to $160 million to a group of investors who are installing the publisher, David Schneiderman, as chief executive of a new company, Village Voice Media, which will will control eight weekly newspapers. B7.
 
Real Power Outside the Board Room
At a time when millions of white-collar workers depend on a desktop computer to perform virtually every function of their job, computer help-desk technicians are fast achieving a position of unofficial influence. A1.
 
Ex-Charity Chief Owed $4.2 Million
United Way of America owes its imprisoned former president, William V. Aramony, the full $4.2 million in his deferred compensation plan because the plan did not include a clause forfeiting the money if Mr. Aramony committed a felony, a federal judge ruled. C4.
 
When Plato Is a Management Expert
Philosophical counseling, in which the ideas of seers like Aristotle, Plato, Seneca and Machiavelli are applied to business, seems to be catching on. Management. C6.
 
Ware Accepts New Post at Coke
Coca-Cola's president named Carl H. Ware, the company's highest-ranking black executive, as head of a new division in charge of corporate affairs and government relations. Mr. Ware, 56, a senior vice president in charge of Coke's Africa business, had announced in November that he would retire from the company at the end of this year. But he said he changed his plans after discussions about a new position began several weeks ago. C5.
 
Expedia Drops Registration Rule
Faced with increased competition, Expedia
.com, the most heavily used online booking engine for leisure and business travel, dropped the requirement that visitors must register and provide basic personal information before using the site to shop for fares and other rates. Business Travel. C8.
 
Cindy Crawford to Endorse Kellogg
Cindy Crawford, who gained supermodel status in part by peddling a long list of products for blue-chip advertisers, will for the first time serve as an endorser for Kellogg. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.
 
China Official Predicts 7% Growth
Defying the gloom of many outside economists, a senior Chinese official predicted that the country's economy would grow by at least 7 percent this year. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,997.93 down 359.58
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.54% down 0.08
The euro -- $1.030 up 0.004
The dollar -- 103.28 yen up 1.72
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Factory Orders
November figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern.
Expected: +0.9%
 
Graph tracks the daily close of the Nasdaq composite since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (69%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (69%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); JUDGES (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (63%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (61%); FELONIES (61%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



133 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: For Latino Laborers, Dual Lives;
Welcomed at Work, but Shunned at Home in Suburbs

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

DATELINE: MOUNT KISCO, N.Y., Jan. 4

 BODY:
Gladys and Pedro Rueda are treated respectfully in the palatial houses they clean throughout northern Westchester and Fairfield Counties, with generous tips during the holiday season, offers of stylish hand-me-downs and compliments for their reliability and hard work.
But here in the Westchester County town where they've lived for 11 years, started a business, learned halting English and taken leadership responsibilities at church, a simple trip to the store can be an occasion for humiliation, as it was recently when Mrs. Rueda went shopping for a cellular telephone. "The man looked me up and down," she said of the store owner. "He said: 'You need a lot of money. Do you have money?' Why was he asking those questions?" 
 Mrs. Rueda, a Peruvian, knew the answer. She is a Hispanic immigrant, one of about 140,000 in Westchester County who make the good life possible by doing the jobs nobody else wants to do. And the differences between her life at work and her life at home reflect one of the newest quandaries of suburbia: while Hispanic immigrants have become an essential part of the economy in these wealthy precincts, they have yet to be fully embraced by their neighbors and do not blend in as they would in the melting pot of New York City.
There are some food banks, community centers and literacy programs to meet the needs of the suburban immigrants. And some residents welcome the diversity as a counterweight to the homogeneity of the largely white northern suburbs.
But the efforts to accommodate the immigrants have not kept pace with their growth. In addition, there is very little affordable housing in northern Westchester and few efforts to bridge the cultural gap between the poor immigrants and the affluent whites who surround them. As a result, the cultural and economic issues tend to play out conspicuously in the few mixed communities like this town of 9,100 people, where the Hispanic population increased by 195 percent, to 1,180 from 401, between 1980 and 1990 and has continued to grow since then. By contrast, neighboring towns like Katonah, Pound Ridge and Bedford see the immigrants only as workers, not as residents.
"We want them to be invisible," said Luis H. Zayas, a professor of social work at Fordham University and director of its Center for Hispanic Mental Health Research. "We don't want to look at them except as laborers. During the day they can be in our streets, but we don't want to see them at night or on Saturday."
Most problematic to many who live in Mount Kisco are the single men, mostly from one Guatemalan province, who far outnumber immigrant women or families. Each morning, they congregate near the railroad station waiting to be picked up for jobs in landscaping or construction or on the stone masonry crews that fan out through northern Westchester and Fairfield County.
At night, they congregate outdoors as they would in a Central American village. On warm weekends, they set up Ping-Pong tables outside their modest dwellings. To some of their neighbors, the mere presence of the immigrants can feel threatening, even when their behavior is beyond reproach. And a minority are drunk and surly, making suggestive remarks to women or urinating on the street.
"I live in Armonk and if that happened there it would scare people to death," said the Rev. Jack S. Miller, minister at the Presbyterian Church of Mount Kisco, which has reached out to the immigrants with food, clothing and English classes.
In Mount Kisco, the discrimination has become more subtle and less pervasive than even in the mid-90's, when white residents wrote blatantly racist letters to the local weekly newspaper. But the immigrants say they still get a wide berth when they gather on street corners to socialize. The neighborhoods where they live have seen gradual white flight. And advocates for the immigrants say they often hear remarks like, "I bought a half-million-dollar house up here to get away from people like that."
Mr. Miller wishes the immigrants were treated more kindly by the Mount Kisco residents, including some of his own congregants, and also by town officials, who have been sued repeatedly for discriminating against the day laborers and have settled the cases. But, the minister said: "It's easier to be generous with people and situations not close to us."
The difference in attitude depending on where one lives is personified by two women, both retired school teachers, who volunteer at a food pantry in nearby Katonah. The center, the only one of its kind in the area, serves mainly Hispanics from Mount Kisco.
One of the volunteers, Ella Saunders, lives in Katonah, the other, who asked not to be identified, in Mount Kisco. "She cares just as much as I do," Mrs. Saunders said of her friend. "She has no animosity toward them. She just feels uncomfortable in the streets. She says to me: 'You don't live here. Our town is not what it used to be.' "
Some of the immigrant men living in Mount Kisco say their neighbors grow more welcoming if they speak English, hold steady jobs and have spouses and children. But Edgar Chacon, a Guatemalan who has progressed from a dishwasher to a landscaper to a financial analyst at Citibank in 13 years -- and now has a wife and children -- said acceptance was still based on appearance, not accomplishment. "When I wear my name tag from work in the street, I'm treated with respect," he said. "If I dress casual, they treat me like garbage."
It is impossible to say whether the disdain the Latino laborers perceive is the result of racism, xenophobia or discomfort with unfamiliar people and their habits.
Graciela Heyman, the director of the Westchester Hispanic Coalition, said, "It's a class thing," because "the men are scuzzy, they're short and they're brown." But the Rev. Douglas Phillips, a minister at the Presbyterian Church here, argues that "anybody different is automatically suspect." He cites the outdoor socializing: "Anglos don't do that, so we assume they're up to no good."
Both the church and the coalition hope to educate the laborers about the local customs at a storefront community center being built on Route 117 south of downtown, where there will be classes in English, culture, vocational skills and citizenship. The center, supported by $100,000 in donations, 60 percent from two local families, will have a lounge with a large-screen television and snacks so the laborers have a place to congregate inside. And there will be a food pantry and clothes giveaway.
But Mr. Miller, who spearheaded the project, is treading carefully, mindful that the center could provoke community opposition. He chose a storefront in what he described as a "Hispanic friendly" strip mall, a few doors down from a coin laundry that is already an immigrant hangout. The zoning is retail and so the center will sell coffee for a dime or sweatshirts for a quarter so as not to run afoul of the town planning board.
Mr. Miller has not discussed the center with neighboring merchants, lest they label it a "handout place" before they see it. And he is being quiet about plans for a job bank, matching contractors and laborers, so there is no fear of another pickup stop in a town that is unhappy about the one it already has.
"It's all so tender," he said. "So we are dancing around this stuff."
Some public policy experts argue that communities like Mount Kisco -- or Brewster in Putnam County and Farmingdale on Long Island -- deserve help from neighboring villages that reap the benefits of cheap labor, perhaps by modifying zoning laws to permit affordable housing, by educating some of the non-English-speaking children or by contributing to costly social services.
Anthony A. Cupaiuolo, a professor of public administration at Pace University, who lives in nearby Bedford Village, suggests a task force of political, civic and religious leaders. "I can't come up with a legal argument, but there is a moral argument for a regional solution," he said, "and I don't see anybody trying."
Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University historian and author of "Crabgrass Frontier," a critique of suburbia, calls the concentration oflaborers in one town "a basic unfairness." He knows this firsthand because he owns a home in Chappaqua, where his wife is a school teacher. There his lawn is cared for by a crew of Central Americans whom he does not know and rarely sees.
"Our lifestyle benefits from the sweat of people we don't want to legitimize or honor," he said. "If everybody benefits, 50 of them should live in every town."
The increase in the Hispanic population in Westchester County has been remarkable -- almost 90 percent during the 1980's, when the rest of the county's population grew by just 1 percent. In the 1990 census, Hispanics represented 10 percent of the county's population, at 86,194. The county's planning department projects that the 2000 census will show an increase to 16 percent and another jump to 24 percent by 2020. Census figures generally do not include undocumented immigrants and thus significantly understate the Hispanic population.
Religious institutions and school service clubs throughout northern Westchester are the most reliable sources of support for the immigrants. Children preparing for bar mitzvah at Temple Shaaray Tefilia in Bedford, for instance, volunteer at the Katonah community center. And students at Horace Greeley High School in Chappaqua teach English as a Second Language classes at Mount Kisco's Presbyterian Church.
Eric Sigmon, a senior who heads the tutoring corps, said that he and the others from Horace Greeley were motivated by a desire to "get out of the box" of their upper middle class, suburban lives.
Still, the teenagers struggle to transcend vocabulary and grammar and make human contact. "We come to help them, but there's still that distance," Eric said. "Basic questions you'd ask someone you meet -- 'How old are you? How long have you been here?' -- we tend not to ask."
A recent holiday party helped break the ice. Although some of the immigrants and tutors clustered in separate corners, others nudged forward to hear Ronnie Morales, nearly fluent in English just three years after leaving Guatemala, sing a bilingual version of "Feliz Navidad."
Mr. Morales, accompanying himself on the guitar, followed with two Spanish-language ballads about the terrifying flight of immigrants across the border, their arduous work in America and their yearning to go home when it is time to die. Several of the tutors wept.
But not Mr. Morales. He had much to celebrate: a steady job as a roofer, language skills sufficient to attend the Presbyterian Church here instead of the Spanish-language Fuente de Vida Eterna and enough money to buy a camcorder.
With it, Mr. Morales's uncle recorded his performance. He would send the tape home to his parents and 10 siblings, who have not seen him since he came to America.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Waiting at the Mount Kisco, N.Y., train station for jobs. Hispanics say they feel unwelcome in what has become their home.; Edgar Lopez at a housing development in Briarcliff Manor. His workday started when a contractor picked him up at the Mount Kisco station. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Ronnie Morales, a Guatemalan in Mount Kisco, singing for Hispanic immigrants and their English tutors at the Presbyterian church. Religious and school groups have become the most reliable sources of support for Hispanics in northern Westchester as population growth outstrips social services. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Map: Hispanics from Mount Kisco work throughout Westchester. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MIGRANT LABOR; MINORITIES (US); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (71%); TRENDS (70%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (69%); REFUGEES (69%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE PEDRO RUEDA (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



134 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Computer Technicians Learn They Are Indispensable Parts

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The managers of the Phoenix Home Life Mutual Insurance Company's Chicago office know how to butter up the corporate V.I.P.'s. As a holiday gift, they flew a quartet of jazz singers to the Hartford headquarters last month to parade around in Mickey Mouse sweaters and sing Christmas carols to the people who hold real power over their professional lives.
The quartet sang for the board of directors, of course. But they also made a special, 25-minute stop in a nondescript room of cubicles to sing for a group that the Chicago managers wanted to please as much as anybody else: the computer help-desk staff. 
 When the foursome had finished with "O Holy Night" (a favorite of the man who answers the help desk's phone, they had heard), "Silent Night" and "We Wish You a Merry Christmas," it seemed clear that the effort at ingratiation had worked: The woman who runs the help desk was crying.
At a time when millions of white-collar workers depend on a desktop computer to perform virtually every function of their job, computer help-desk technicians are fast achieving a position of unofficial influence rivalling that of the office secretary.
Indeed, behind all the flattery is a serious issue. Computer industry experts say there are still too few help-desk technicians across the country. Some 250,000 and 300,000 employees now fit the description of internal technology support staff, up from about 100,000 in 1992, according to Howard Rubin, the chairman of the computer science department at Hunter College in Manhattan. They typically are paid about $25,000 to $50,000 a year.
Given how frequently office computer networks break down, it is technology support workers who often decide whether people must sit stewing unproductively for hours or whether a software bug is just a minor nuisance. As a result, staying in the good graces of the help desk -- and figuring out which of its members are truly helpful -- has become a delicate science for many of the nation's office workers.
The help desk's phone number is usually one of the few that virtually all company employees know by heart. Some executives have forged a friendship with a technology staff member they hope will become their personal computer consultant. And, like the managers at Phoenix Home Life, employees at all levels are using gifts to curry favor with computer techies -- or perhaps make up for screaming at them in a moment of frustration.
In the last month, as relief over the lack of Year 2000 computer problems has followed the gift-giving of the December holidays, help-desk workers across the country have been bombarded with homemade cookies, chocolate samplers, fancy lunches and thank-you notes that are carbon-copied to key executives.
At PricewaterhouseCoopers in New York, help-desk workers have filled a wall with appreciative e-mails recounting their triumphs. At the insurance company Marsh USA, word has gotten around that technology workers in Memphis like salsa and chips, and orders have been arriving from a nearby Mexican restaurant. And at Burson-Marsteller, the New York public relations firm and a unit of Young and Rubicam Inc., the chief financial officer planned to treat the entire help desk for lunch at Angelo & Maxies, an upscale steakhouse, to celebrate the trouble-free Year 2000 changeover.
"We think computer systems have gotten easier," said Paul Danos, the dean of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. "But the networks have gotten so complex that you can't do anything for yourself anymore. You need to get someone to help you.
"There are usually a handful of people," Professor Danos added, referring to help-desk employees, "who could really bring an organization to its knees."
Despite a growing recognition of the importance of help-desk workers, the increase in their ranks has not kept pace with the explosion of computer troubles that have accompanied the growth of office PC's, internal corporate Web sites and complicated cybernetworks. In the last four years, the number of calls to help desks around the country has been increasing by about 20 percent a year, said Kris Brittain, a research director at GartnerGroup, a consulting firm in Stamford, Conn. And with unemployment low, technically savvy help-desk workers are in strong demand, particularly by Internet start-ups that can offer stock options.
As a result of the shortages, computer users at large companies must often hold for minutes before their calls are answered and even wait hours to have their troubles fixed.
More than 11 percent of all calls to help desks at large companies are abandoned, according to GartnerGroup. On average, callers wait about 53 seconds before hearing a human voice, the firm said.
To deal with the overload, many companies have begun asking employees to describe their problems in e-mail messages -- assuming that the e-mail system is functioning -- rather than by calling.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida is typical. Its help desk in Jacksonville has grown from 8 employees to 23 in the last decade, said Anna Guy, who oversees it. But with about 24,000 phone calls coming in every month, it remains understaffed, and it is not coming close to meeting its goal of answering every call within 30 seconds, Ms. Guy said.
"We're short on staff," she said. "We're in a slump."
An overworked help desk that must tend to more urgent requests first and keep everybody else waiting is, of course, an inevitable target of office apple-polishers. Recently, Ms. Guy and every member of her staff received a road atlas from the marketing department, which for the last two years has not had a secretary and now relies on the help desk for many more tasks. Another group of employees drove 20 minutes across Jacksonville to deliver a box of Whitman's chocolates.
"They wanted to go around and meet every single person on the help desk," Ms. Guy said. "Obviously, your human nature is that when someone is nice to you, you're nice to them back."
That is especially the case for technology-support workers, who spend their days talking to callers angered by both computer problems and help-desk delays. The waits only aggravate their frustration, office workers said, causing technology support workers to receive some of worst verbal abuse in corprate America.
"Help desks are a pretty tough environment," said Rushdi A. Ariss, the information technology manager for C. A. Rasmussen, a construction company in Simi Valley, Calif., where help-desk workers received both sweets and thank-you cards last month. "Not a lot of people are courteous" when they call, he said, and partly as a result, most help-desk workers quit or change jobs in 18 months or less.
The abuse is another reason for all the gifts of the last month. "I may not be the nicest person" to the help desk sometimes, acknowledged Rhet O'Neill, one of the managers of the Chicago office of Phoenix Home Life. She doubles as a member of the quartet that sang in Connecticut last month. So, Ms. O'Neill said, she wanted to make sure that the help desk understood she did appreciate their work.
"You become important to them," she said, of meeting the support workers in person, "and therefore your problems become important to them."
Many executives have another strategy: They skip the help desk and call a technology worker whose fix-it skills they revere and whose number, likely as not, they keep hidden away from their colleagues as though it were a state secret.
At Towers Perrin, a management-consulting firm with 8,500 employees, everybody is supposed to start with the help desk for all problems. But some top executives, like the chief information officer, find a favorite "level two" technology expert they call directly, said Steve Stull, the director of office technology and services. That allows them to avoid the help-desk lines and help-desk workers who might not recognize their names.
"Often," Mr. Stull said, "the younger people haven't been around the firm very long, so they don't even know who the senior executives are when they call in."
Of course, a generous gift can get their attention rather quickly. The 10 members of Burson-Marsteller's help desk, for example, are unlikely to forget that for all the obsequious e-mail, fancy fruit baskets and succulent chocolates that they received last year, it was Kurt Krauss, the chief financial officer, who took them out to a steak lunch.
That is, if they all actually made it through lunch. The help-desk manager deliberately picked a restaurant on the same block as Burson. The workers, he realized, were too important all to be far away from the office at the same time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of Burson-Marsteller's computer help desk try to solve a problem. John Fonseca, left, Jeff Marshall and Elizabeth Abramson are surrounded by holiday goodies sent by colleagues in other departments. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHOENIX LIFE INSURANCE CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SHORTAGES; LABOR SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); MUSIC (72%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (50%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



135 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Russians' Death Toll Is Mounting in Chechnya
Almost 400 soldiers have been killed and 1,150 have been wounded as of late December, Russian officials say. Moreover, the death count does not include soldiers who were wounded on the battlefield and later died of their injuries in a hospital, or soldiers whose bodies have not been recovered and identified. A1
 
No Challengers to Putin
Not a single serious politician has committed to running against the acting president of Russia, Vladimir V. Putin, with less than 12 weeks before the likeliest election date. A8 

Clinton Visits Mideast Talks
President Clinton, in a second trip to Shepherdstown, W.Va., broke an impasse between Syria and Israel over the agenda for their peace talks. His reappearance came after negotiators bogged down in a dispute over whether the first topic of discussion should be Syria's demand for the return of the Golan Heights. Mr. Clinton also convened the first face-to-face session between Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara. A10
 
West Bank Agreement Reached
In talks in Jerusalem, Israel agreed to turn over 5 percent of the West Bank to the Palestinian Authority within 48 hours, after negotiators resolved a lingering dispute over the land. Negotiators also agreed on the transfer of an additional 6.1 percent of the West Bank later this month. A10
 
Hijacking Pilot's Account
Capt. Devi Sharan, the commander of the hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814, said he believed that 70 or 80 -- perhaps 100 -- passengers would have died at the hands of the grenade-toting hijackers if there had been a commando raid to try to end the episode. A3
 
New Rulers in Croatia
The center-left opposition won a sweeping victory in parliamentary elections on Monday, official results showed. The election delivered a blow to the ruling Croatian Democratic Union and is expected to make the next prime minister Ivica Racan, leader of the Social Democrats. A4
 
Italy Recognizes North Korea
Italy said it was opening diplomatic relations with North Korea, signifying a shift in the hard-line Communist nation's relations with the rest of the world. Italian government officials said they had informed the United States and South Korea of their overtures in advance and had received full support. A3
 
17 Killed in Indonesia
Soldiers trying to stop fighting between Christians and Muslims opened fire on mobs on the island of Seram, killing at least 17 people, the military said. Hundreds of soldiers were sent to the town last week but were unable to stop the violence. By the government's count, 1,300 people have died since religious warfare began a year ago. A3
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A12-19
 
Bush and Elizabeth Dole Go on the Stump Together
Gov. George W. Bush campaigned in New Hampshire with his former rival Elizabeth Dole and sparred with Senator John McCain over the size and scope of their competing tax cut proposals. Mr. Bush and Mrs. Dole both sidestepped questions about the possibility of her being his running mate if he won the Republican presidential nomination. A1
 
Senator Edward M. Kennedy Jr. plans to endorse Vice President Al Gore for president today, aides to the two Democrats said. A17
 
Bill Bradley, an architect of the 1986 law that closed loopholes and reduced tax rates, campaigned in New Hampshire for tax fairness. A17
 
Cuban Boy May Be Sent Home
The Clinton administration may soon rule that the father of Elian Gonzalez has the right to have the 6-year-old boy returned to him in Cuba, senior United States officials said. A14
 
States Taking Up Gun Control
Political wrangling over gun control has emerged as state lawmakers gather this week for the start of the 2000 legislative sessions. Lawmakers in almost every state are preparing to debate measures that would affect gun ownership. A12
 
How to Use Big Surpluses
The states, buoyed by revenue from a strong economy, have accumulated large surpluses, are cutting taxes and plan to raise spending for education and health care, the National Governors' Association said. A12
 
Backing Off Prosecutions
Officials in Seattle said they were dropping all but about 40 of the 300 or so unresolved misdemeanor cases arising from the tumultuous street protests at the World Trade Organization meeting there last month. Prosecutors decided that it would be difficult to prove the charges. A15
 
Feeling the Pinch
The unusually warm and snowless weather that has been breaking records over New England is raising financial concern among businesses dependent on snow, from snowmobile stores in Maine to ski centers in Connecticut. A12
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Pap Test Surpassed in Studies
Two studies reported in the Journal of the American Medical Association show that a newer lab test is better than the Pap test at detecting cervical cancer and precancerous changes in women over 40. A18
 
EDUCATION B8
 
A College Keeps Its Fees Stable
Williams College, a small liberal arts school in western Massachusetts, said it would keep tuition, room, board and fees unchanged next year, becoming the first highly selective institution to do so in decades. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Settlement Is Announced For Inmates in Attica Riot
A federal judge announced that the inmates who were beaten and tortured during the 1971 Attica prison uprising would be offered an $8 million settlement from New York State. The settlement must be approved by inmates. A1
 
Peek at a Patronage Mill
A remarkably candid letter written by two top officials of the Brooklyn Democratic Party tacitly acknowledges the existence of a legal patronage system in the borough, which party leaders have long denied. B1
 
Jail Guard Admits Conspiracy
Ivano Bavaro, a guard at the Nassau County jail, admitted in federal court that he acted as a lookout last year while two other guards severely beat an inmate who later died. Mr. Bavaro pleaded guilty to conspiracy and witness tampering. B1
 
Flu Season Back in Business
New York City's emergency rooms, nursing homes and employers are facing down an odious flu that came late and with a vengeance, bringing with it a cough- and ache-producing bug that is not really flu at all but is perhaps even more miserable. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Grammy Award Nominations
Santana received 10 nominations, the most for any nominee. The Grammys will be presented on Feb. 23. E5
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
New Jets' Coach Resigns
Bill Belichick resigned minutes before he was to be introduced at a news conference. He said he was resigning because of uncertainty over the future of the team. A1
 
Seminoles Win Championship
Florida State defeated Virginia Tech, 46-29, to win the national championship. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
No Change at Federal Reserve
President Clinton nominated Alan Greenspan to a fourth four-year term as chairman of the Fed. A1
 
Stocks Take Big Drop
The Dow dropped 359.58 points, or 3.2 percent, to 10,997.93. The Nasdaq fell 229.46, or 5.55 percent, to 3,901.69, and the S.&P. 500 fell 55.80 points, or 3.8 percent, to 1,399.42. A1
 
Sears Expects Big Profits
Sears, Roebuck said its fourth-quarter earnings would sharply exceed expectations, but analysts cautioned against assuming that the company had turned its fortunes around. C1
 
Dutch Software Maker Falters
Baan, Europe's second-largest software company, said its chief executive had resigned and it would report as much as $250 million in losses for the last quarter of 1999. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES A19
 
DINING F1-10
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Another term for Mr. Greenspan; a hijacking's dangerous fallout; money games in the Senate race.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E10
 
TV Listings E11
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather B6
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CROATIA (92%); ITALY (90%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AIRLINES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CROATIA (92%); ITALY (90%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (69%); AIRLINES (64%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); ELIZABETH DOLE (55%); EHUD BARAK (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



136 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Breaks an Impasse At the Israel-Syria Talks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: SHEPHERDSTOWN, W.Va., Jan. 4

 BODY:
President Clinton made a second trip here today, breaking an impasse between Syria and Israel over the agenda for their peace talks and convening the first face-to-face talks between Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara of Syria.
Mr. Clinton's reappearance in this small West Virginia town came after Israeli and Syrian negotiators bogged down in a dispute over whether the first topic of discussion would be Syria's demand for the return of the Golan Heights, which Israel has controlled since the 1967 Middle East war, or Israel's search for security guarantees. 
 Mr. Barak knows that if he has any hope of making the return of the Golan politically palatable in a national referendum, he must be able to convince Israelis that the buffer zone they have considered so vital for more than a quarter-century is no longer necessary for national survival.
American officials said little about the content of the talks, under the terms of a news blackout that has largely been respected by both Israelis and Syrians.
But Mr. Clinton's arrival here plainly indicated that his intervention was needed just to get substantive discussions going. After hours of procedural talks, Israel and Syria agreed to discuss both land and security simultaneously.
Mr. Clinton then held a half-hour "social event" in a lounge area of the Clarion Hotel, where the talks were held, inviting a half-dozen negotiators from Israel and Syria. An administration official said Mr. Clinton had talked about the Civil War battle of Antietam, which took place in Sharpsburg just across the Potomac River in Maryland, the cost of war and the need for the negotiators to consider the fate of millions in the Middle East whose lives are affected by the talks.
This evening, the first meetings were scheduled of four working committees addressing specific areas of dispute.
"I think they're both very serious," Mr. Clinton said at the White House this morning, after announcing that he would nominate Alan Greenspan for a fourth term as chairman of the Federal Reserve. "They both want an agreement."
So does Mr. Clinton, who sees an accord as a key element of his legacy. He was so determined to get here that when winds and rain prevented a helicopter flight, he traveled the 70 miles in a motorcade.
His arrival was intended to force the first three-way meeting with the president, the Israeli prime minister and the Syrian foreign minister, which failed to take place as planned on Monday.
Several officials speculated that the Monday night impasse over the agenda may have been intended for domestic political consumption in both Syria and Israel. If an agreement is reached, both governments have an interest in showing that they fought over every point -- even the sequence of the discussions.
Briefing reporters today, James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, continued to play down the prospects of any early accord. He said the goal of the negotiations was to come up with a core agreement -- which he described as more specific than a framework but far less detailed than a treaty that would specify new borders and the details of troop withdrawals and security arrangements. But he expressed doubts that that would occur in this round of talks.
"You shouldn't read 'Great Expectations' or 'Bleak House' into every arrival or departure of the president," Mr. Rubin said, reaching for a Dickensian metaphor to describe the talks.
Despite Mr. Rubin's caution, American officials are clearly preparing for the prospect of an accord -- and coming to grips with what it might cost American taxpayers.
American officials acknowledged that they had begun separate conversations with Israel over how many billions of dollars in American aid it would take to upgrade the Israeli Defense Force, and thus strengthen its deterrent capabilities if it could no longer depend on the buffer zone of the Golan Heights.
Reports out of Israel said Mr. Barak had presented Mr. Clinton with a $17 billion shopping list -- everything from Awacs radar planes to Tomahawk cruise missiles. Mr. Rubin called those reports "wildly premature." He did not, however, say they were wrong.
In Israel, leaders of the opposition Likud were quick to attack Mr. Barak's presumed call for American aid, saying it would undercut the country's autonomy and make it more dependent than ever on Washington's whims.
Moshe Arens, the hawkish former defense minister, said: "It's obvious, and I have not heard the Prime Minister deny, that he is prepared and committed to giving up all of the Golan Heights. He's already discussing with the U.S. government the need for $20 billion. Certainly part of it is presumably for Israel leaving the Golan Heights."
Meanwhile, about 20 rabbis in Israel issued a religious ruling today saying the Golan Heights was part of the land of Israel, and thus could not be surrendered in negotiation.
Many Israeli experts say that if the referendum on returning the Golan Heights were held today, it would probably be defeated. But that may not mean much, because Mr. Barak does not yet have a full package to sell to the Israeli public.
He hopes that the package will include a pullback and reduction of Syrian forces near Israel's border, more arms and aid from the United States and more sophisticated early-warning systems to alert Israel to any Syrian military action.
But Syria has said virtually nothing about how much it is willing to give. The state-run radio in Damascus said today, "Syria is serious about making peace, and it is normal that it demands an Israeli commitment to withdrawal from all its lands."
But it did not discuss the price that Syria might have to pay, whether in pulling back its forces, allowing Israelis to travel across the country to open an overland pathway to Europe, or tolerating some economic integration and Israeli diplomatic presence in the Syrian capital.
The expectation is that those issues will get an airing here this week, but probably no resolution. It is unclear if Syrian negotiators will return home for the end of the holy month of Ramadan this weekend, or whether Mr. Barak will return to Israel for an expected visit this weekend by the former Russian president, Boris N. Yeltsin, perhaps accompanied by the acting president, Vladimir V. Putin.
Nor is it clear how frequently Mr. Clinton, who returned to the White House tonight, plans to return to push the talks along, reprising the role he played at the Wye Plantation in talks between Israel and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat.
"We've cleared out the week," one of Mr. Clinton's aides said. "If he feels the need, he'll just get on his helicopter."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Orthodox Jews Protest
 SHEPHERDSTOWN, W.Va., Jan. 4 (AP) -- Protesters led by Orthodox Jews demanded today that Israel immediately stop negotiating with Syria over a possible Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights.
"Traitor, go home!" they chanted here in a message to Mr. Barak.
They staged the demonstration in a light rain outside the makeshift news media center at Shepherd College, about a mile from the Clarion Hotel, where today's meeting was held.
Relinquishing the strategic Golan Heights, which Syria has set as the price for peace, would leave Israel's northern border unprotected, contended the leader of the protest, Levi Huebner.
"The Golan is our security," Mr. Huebner said. "Peace will be in security and trust in our neighbors."
Mr. Huebner arrived this morning with about 40 other people in a convoy of nine vans from Brooklyn, headquarters of the Lubavich Hasidic movement.
They were joined at an hourlong demonstration this afternoon by about 40 representatives of the New York-based group America for a Safe Israel and about 40 children from a Hebrew school in Silver Spring, Md.
Herbert Zweibon, chairman of America for a Safe Israel, urged American citizens to oppose proposals for using American troops or money to enforce a turnover of the Golan.
"The last thing we need to do is spend money on a deal that will not work," he said.
The Lubavichers arrived in vans plastered with slogans including, "We will not move from the Golan." Honking horns and chanting, they drove several times past the Clarion on the outskirts of town.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, left, and Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara of Syria, right, during the peace talks yesterday at a hotel and conference center in Shepherdstown, W.Va. (David Scull/The White House)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (63%); 

COUNTRY: SYRIA (97%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; SHEPHERDSTOWN (WEST VA); SYRIA (97%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); REFERENDUMS (54%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); SHARA, FAROUK AL- (MIN); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (93%); EHUD BARAK (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



137 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Turns Its Presidential Caucuses Into a Cash Cow, and Milks Furiously

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: DES MOINES

 BODY:
Iowa Republicans knew they were onto something big when the presidential candidate Steve Forbes said he could get his good friend, former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, to come to Iowa and help raise money for local statehouse candidates.
So, accepting Mr. Forbes's offer, the party hung British flags on a downtown hotel, invented an honor for Mrs. Thatcher -- the Freedom Without Borders medal -- and made her the featured attraction at a $250-a-ticket luncheon that raised $500,000 for Iowa Republicans during the 1998 mid-term elections. 
 Such is the power of presidential politics in Iowa, where local politicians and civic boosters have figured out how to turn their first-in-the nation caucus status into a money-raising device and a tool for economic development. In Iowa, more than in other states, presidential candidates, Congressional leaders and world figures, like Mrs. Thatcher, have been crisscrossing the state to help local politicians with personal appearances and, in some cases, direct donations.
Everyone, it seems, is climbing on the political bandwagon here, from Iowa economic development officials who see the January caucuses as a way to burnish the state's image, to hotels and restaurants whose reservations swell during the caucus season, to Iowa legislative candidates who have the pick of presidential hopefuls to campaign on their behalf.
"This is entrepreneurial politics at its best," said Steve Grubbs, former chairman of the Republican Party of Iowa. "Where else can the state party call up a legislative candidate and say, 'We're bringing a presidential candidate to fund-raise for you,' and have the candidate get picky about which one?"
A September dinner appearance by Gov. George W. Bush raised $100,000 for Iowa Republicans, the same amount Elizabeth Dole raised a few months earlier. A joint Al Gore-Bill Bradley appearance in October netted state Democrats $500,000. The biggest money-raiser is the Ames Straw Poll, a Republican event last August with little real political meaning that brought the state party over $1 million through the sale of things like admission tickets and advertising sites most from the pockets of Republican presidential candidates.
"The biggest beneficiaries of the Iowa caucuses have been the state political parties," said Hugh Winebrenner, a political science professor at Drake University here. "They have events with presidential candidates and raise lots of money. It's allowed them to have excellent headquarters, big bureaucracies and throw lots of money into legislative races."
Ron Corbett, former speaker of the Iowa House, added, "Legislators in other states are jealous of us."
The key to this money machine is the Jan. 24 caucuses, where Republicans and Democrats come to precinct meetings and cast votes for the 2000 presidential race in a ballot that is not binding on Iowa's delegates to the national conventions. The largely symbolic event slowly took on real meaning after the state's Democratic Party in 1972 pushed the caucus date up to January, making it the first event of the primary season.
In the 1976 race, Jimmy Carter used the caucuses as a springboard to the Democratic nomination -- much to the astonishment of the national media. Since then, all presidential candidates have had to pass through Iowa on their road to the White House. In their wake are journalists from all over the world -- by last count, over 650 came for last August's straw poll, and more are expected for this month's caucuses.
"Between Denver and Chicago, the candidates would just drop leaflets on us as they flew over, if it were not for the caucuses," said Kayne Robinson, chairman of the Iowa Republican Party. "The caucuses allow us to get celebrity candidates out here and allows the rest of the nation to see them in the raw. In the process, everyone spends a heck of a lot of money here."
Money is spent in many ways. For starters, in the two years before the caucuses, potential presidential candidates and Congressional leaders come here to gain publicity for themselves and for their party. In doing so, they become the celebrity draw at local fund-raisers, buy tickets to political events and host lavish receptions for the party faithful.
"Local party activists will call you and say they want the national party or a national campaign to send someone to Iowa to appear at a local event," said the campaign manager for one presidential candidate. "Then, the local guys say they need you to buy tickets to the event. Then they charge you a registration fee. And you have to hold a reception for them. You provide all the food and the entertainment. In fact, you are the entertainment."
In fact, Iowa politicians say there is nothing like a political star to draw a crowd and separate people from their money.
"People will come to an event to support the legislative races when you've got a candidate there like Bush," said Mr. Robinson of the Iowa Republican Party. "And Bush's people will also buy tickets to the event. Without the celebrity, it's just an event and maybe all you would raise would be $10,000. A celebrity will get you over $50,000."
Republican officials estimate that presidential candidates have attended at least 50 Iowa fund-raisers for local candidates in this election cycle and have appeared in around 40 of the state's 99 counties. They have attended events ranging from small coffee klatches to a "Candidate Cavalcade" at the party's Cedar Rapids convention, where presidential candidates, after having bought tickets, paid for receptions and picked up their own travel expenses, got 10 minutes to speak before being gonged off the stage by a loud buzzer.
In addition, presidential candidates write checks directly to statehouse candidates. The state Republican Party and the presidential hopefuls -- with the exception of Mr. Bush -- gave $2.1 million to Iowa legislative candidates in the 1998 mid-term elections, while Democratic legislative candidates received $615,772 from their party. By comparison, state-level Republican candidates in Missouri received $1 million from their party over the same period and Democrats, $540,902. In Minnesota, the Republican Party gave its state candidates $401,998 and Democrats gave $324,135.
"I visited with all the presidential candidates," said Lynn Schulte, a defeated Republican statehouse candidate who got contributions from $875 to $1,500 from Dan Quayle, Lamar Alexander and Steve Forbes. "They are trying to build good will."
Mike Sexton, a Republican who won his state Senate bid, said, "Last fall, you could get any of the presidential candidates to come around and, if they liked you, write a check. Iowans are spoiled."
No fund-raising opportunity is too small. At a recent Republican training session, Mr. Robinson, the party chairman, was passing around a "county caucus buck bag," which volunteers will use to raise money for the county party on caucus night. He showed how to get caucus-goers to whip out a $5 bill and put it in the bag. "Make it fun," Mr. Robinson said. "The point is, you pass the hat and the county party gets to keep it."
Iowa Republicans and Democrats differ, however, in their tactics. Rob Tully, the Democratic chairman, is far less aggressive in approaching presidential candidates for help.
"We don't drain the presidential campaigns of cash for the benefit of the state party" Mr. Tully said. "Dumping money into the state party is not in the best interest of the presidential candidates."
Still, the Democrats are not shy in tapping into presidential celebrity. The annual Jefferson-Jackson dinner in October was the largest in Iowa history, with 3,000 attending the $300-a-plate event, with its joint Gore-Bradley appearance "We ran out of tables and tablecloths in Iowa and had to got to Omaha to get more chairs shipped in," Mr. Tully said.
Even that pales against the straw poll, in which Republicans are bused to Ames for a day. That event raised $1,050,000 for the state party, which put a price tag on items ranging from space in parking lot (the Bush campaign paid $40,000 to put its tent in the best location) to a spot on the scoreboard ($5,000) of the Iowa State Center, where the poll was held.
Moreover, anyone voting in the straw poll had to buy a $25 ticket -- which, of course, the presidential candidates bought for their supporters. Steve Forbes, who came in second in the straw poll, paid $290,553 for his appearance there: $158,275 to buy tickets for his supporters, $50,000 to rent space and the remainder for food, music, a sound and light system, balloons and decorating.
In addition, the state Republican Party has built a powerful computer data base: names, phone numbers and addresses of voters and donors and sells it to all presidential candidates, starting at $10,000. "The big boys will pay for this and they are glad to get it," said Mr. Robinson.
State economic development officials welcome the media frenzy. "This is our chance to showcase Iowa as something more than cows and pigs," said Mike Blouin, chief executive of the Des Moines Chamber of Commerce.
Local officials work hard to make life easier for the hundreds of journalists who come here -- providing foreign journalists with translators, laying fiber optic connections and satellite uplinks for television transmission and having a Web site chock full of information on political history and such practical matters as where to get clothes cleaned.
And the economic development officials -- who say they have made no studies of the economic impact of this activity -- are, nonetheless, taking a page from this political playbook. The Des Moines chamber says tickets to its annual fund-raising dinner are flying out the door, even at $125 each.
The reason? Just a week before the Iowa caucuses, the Chamber has lined up a former president as its keynote speaker -- George Bush. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IOWA REPUBLICAN PARTY (55%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IOWA, USA (96%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); CAUCUSES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); TRENDS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE AL GORE (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



138 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Pataki Proposes Tax Cuts

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Saying that business tax incentives spur economic growth, Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday proposed more than $700 million in new business tax cuts that he said would equal $2.3 billion in tax savings by April 2001 when added to previous tax cuts.
He said he wanted to eliminate the gross receipts tax on energy, give a new tax credit to spur job growth in cities, give new tax cuts to farmers and environmentally friendly companies, create upstate high-tech enterprise zones, expand low-cost power for businesses and cut taxes for small businesses. 
 Mr. Pataki will outline more of his plan in today's State of the State address at the Capitol in Albany.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAX LAW (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); TRENDS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



139 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
STOCK PRICES DROP IN U.S. AND EUROPE

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN and FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell sharply in the United States and Europe yesterday on concerns that interest rates will rise higher than had been anticipated. End-of-year tax moves and investing strategies were also cited as reasons.
The Dow Jones industrial average had its worst day since the autumn of 1998, when world markets were roiled by Asian economic problems and the collapse of the Russian ruble. 
 All the main American indexes fell by at least 3 percent, with the Dow dropping 359.58 points, or 3.2 percent, to 10,997.93.
But the worst performance, a fall of 5.6 percent to 3,901.69, was turned in by the Nasdaq composite index, which was the best performer of 1999 with a gain of 86 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 55.8 points, or 3.8 percent, to 1,399.42. There were also declines of 2 percent or more in most major European indexes.
In Asia, Hong Kong took the American selloff hard, losing 1,000 points in the first minutes of trading today, with the Hang Seng index dropping 7.8 percent by midmorning. Shares were off sharply elsewhere, including South Korea, whose composite index fell 5.9 percent in morning trading.
Alan Greenspan, nominated for another term yesterday as Federal Reserve chairman, is widely expected to push short-term interest rates up another notch when the Federal Open Market Committee meets next month, but in recent days concern has grown that further increases may also be in store after that.
In the past, higher rates have often hurt stock prices. Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said yesterday that he expected the Fed to raise rates twice, and added that "the risk is for more after that." He said the bond market could fall sharply if the employment report to be released on Friday showed that the economy was stronger than expected.
The bond market fell sharply on Monday, but it regained some of those losses yesterday, even as stock prices tumbled. "The stock market couldn't ignore the bond market forever and ever, and maybe today is the day," said Jeffrey Applegate, the chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers. He noted that interest rates, both long-term and short-term, rose during much of 1999, even as stock prices also increased.
Still, there was little new to explain the sudden fall in stock prices, a fact that left analysts searching for seasonal explanations. Investors with large capital gains had a good reason to delay selling until the new year -- and thus not owe the taxes until April 15, 2001, rather than selling at the end of December and owing the money this year. Moreover, institutional investors may have wanted to buy stocks at the end of the year so that their year-end portfolios would show they were fully invested, rather than holding onto cash, and thus had no money left to invest now.
"This should be seen in the context of the last four to six weeks, in which there were significant inflows into the market," said Abby Joseph Cohen, a partner and chief equity strategist at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "The magnitude of the selloff is a little surprising," she added. "But the fundamentals did not abruptly change from last week to this week." Ms. Cohen, who has been the most bullish, and most accurate, strategist in recent years, has forecast a gain of around 8 percent this year.
Ms. Cohen said fears about rising interest rates are overblown. "Over the last month bond yields have climbed to a fairly high level of between 6.5 percent and 6.6 percent, with underlying inflation at between 2 percent and 2.5 percent," she said. "The Fed will raise short-term rates, but we don't think there is much more damage to come at the long end of the yield curve."
Other analysts painted yesterday's drop in stock prices as a mild reaction to the explosive rise recorded in late 1999. "An awful lot of money had been made in a very short period of time," said Laszlo Birinyi, who runs his own stock market research firm, adding, "This is only a correction."
Mr. Greenspan is widely respected on Wall Street, given credit both for saving the banks after they ran into problems a decade ago and for helping to engineer the current period of economic growth, which will soon become the longest in the nation's history. "You'd have thought the market would go up 300 points on Greenspan's reappointment," said Byron R. Wien, an equity strategist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "The fact the market didn't go up is troubling."
Douglas R. Cliggott, United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities, said one factor pushing rates higher and stocks lower might be Fed actions to reverse the flow of billions of dollars into the economy at the end of 1999, when the Fed wanted to assure that the transition to 2000 would go smoothly.
The declines in Europe, which included a 3.8 percent drop in the leading British index, a 2.4 percent fall in the leading German index and a 4.2 percent plunge in the French index, were blamed both on expectations of higher interest rates there and on a reaction to Monday's declines in American stock prices, when the Dow fell 139.61 points.
Throughout the 1990's, the American stock market had frequent bad days, but usually bounced back quickly as investors took advantage of lower prices. For example, on April 19 of last year, the Nasdaq composite plunged 5.56 percent, virtually the same amount it fell yesterday, as technology stocks had an especially bad day. The market bounced back quickly, recovering the entire loss in two days.
Historically, January has often been a good month for stocks, but that has not always held true at the beginnings of decades.
Yale Hirsch of the Hirsch Organization, a market research firm, said that the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks has gone up in 33 of the past 50 Januaries. But the three worst performances, with declines ranging from 6.9 percent to 7.6 percent, came in 1970, 1960 and 1990.
After two trading days this year, the S.& P. 500 is down 4.8 percent, a result in part of big drops in bellwether technology names like America Online, Oracle and Microsoft.
The Russell 2000 small-capitalization stock index shed 18.04 points, or 3.6 percent, to 478.38, and is down 5.2 percent in 2000.
The Nasdaq composite, which had been alone in moving to a new high on Monday, fell 5.55 percent. Internet companies like Yahoo and CMGI, which were darlings for much of last year, were hammered. Yahoo fell $32 a share, to $443. CMGI, the Internet holding company, lost $32.6875 a share, to $293.75. Cisco Systems dropped $6.0625 a share, to $102.
The biggest losers among Dow stocks included Hewlett-Packard, off $8.9375 a share, to $108.50, American Express, down $5.9375, to $151.3125, General Electric, off $5.6875, to $144.3125, and J. P. Morgan, down $6.0625, to $115.375. Financial stocks were especially hard hit.
Volume was heavy, but not spectacular. Volume on the Nasdaq was 1.49 billion shares, while Big Board turnover was 990 million shares.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; HONG KONG; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; TAXATION; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; HANG SENG INDEX (HONG KONG) STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; NORRIS, FLOYD ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



140 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: With Mild Winter, Snow Business Is Slow Business

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: MILTON, Mass., Jan. 4

 BODY:
Is there a more melancholy midwinter New England sight than a melting ski slope defiled by great patches of mud? Can there be a glummer calling than that of Stanley Beers, manager of the Blue Hills Ski Area here, on days like this when nobody stops by the lodge but the occasional rubber-booted hiker?
This morning, said Mr. Beers, who has taken a second mortgage on his house to keep the ski area open, his ski school director, Jim Sutherland, told him, "I feel like the Maytag repairman," the advertising character who never got any business. 
 "Every year," Mr. Sutherland said, "you think you've seen the worst of it, and then the next year comes and it gets even worse."
The unusually warm and snowless weather that has been breaking records over New England may mean pleasant shirtsleeve strolls for some, but it means ulcers to businesspeople dependent on snow, from snowmobile stores in Maine to ski centers in Connecticut.
Even the major ski resorts of northern New England, with their extensive snow-making, have shown signs of snow shortage. The American Skiing Company, the financially precarious skiing giant, promised package guests at its six major New England resorts that if 70 percent of the slopes were not snow-covered when they arrived Christmas week, they would receive future discounts and $500 toward a stay at two company resorts in the West. Four of the company's six New England resorts did not make the grade by Dec. 25, a spokesman said, so American Skiing is giving the discounts to all its Christmas week guests.
Skiing areas in the West, too, have reported less snow than usual and late openings of some trails. At Crested Butte Mountain Resort in Colorado, only 45 percent of groomed trails were open by Monday, said a spokeswoman, Gina Kroft. And in Utah, some resorts reported that a combination of millennium fears and little snowfall had cut the number of skiers by one-third or more.
In New England, some smaller alpine ski resorts and other businesses, like cross-country ski centers that depend on snow from clouds rather than machines, report feeling pinched by the pre-spring spring that continued in much of the region today. Providence, R.I., reported a near-record temperature of 60, and Boston has not seen measurable snow for 395 days, two days short of a record. From Portland, Me., to Providence, New England towns saw record high temperatures on Monday, as well, and spots from Burlington, Vt. to Portland report snowfall to date at only a fraction of the usual level.
In Greenville, Me., Paul Fichtner III, the owner of Big Lake Equipment, said that during a typical Christmas season, he sold $5,000 in accessories and a half-dozen snowmobiles. This winter, the most snowless in his memory, he has sold just $500 in accessories and one child-sized snowmobile.
Greenville, once a lumber town, is heavily dependent on snowmobile tourism, Mr. Fichtner said.
"And if there is no snow, there's no business," he said. "It's as simple as that. I haven't put my cash drawer in the register since a week before Christmas."
"There is some snow up here and there is snowmobiling going on, but the only people going are the real hard-core guys; they are hitting rocks and stumps and banging up their machines," he said.
In Connecticut, some ski resorts reported that the unseasonal weather had forced them to open later than desired.
"It's been staying warmer, and we've been getting less snow the past few years," said Ed Beckley, general manager of the Mount Southington Ski Area in Southington, "and the major impact it's had on us is having to open later in the season, sometimes as late as Dec. 25. Natural snow is the best advertisement for skiing, and after a snowstorm we always have a 50 percent increase in attendance, and there haven't been many snowstorms the past couple of years. We've definitely seen a dip in attendance."
That dip can also be observed at cross-country skiing resorts, which make far less snow than their alpine counterparts. Today, those who called on the "snow phone" of Ski New Hampshire, a consortium of 35 New Hampshire skiing centers, to check on cross-country skiing conditions heard a disheartening summary: "It looks like we're off to a soggy start today, and that's limiting terrain for us." The picture in Vermont has been similar.
In New York State, Ann and Olavi Hirvonen, owners of the Laplan Lake Cross Country Ski and Vacation Center in Benson, said that on a normal winter weekend they had 350 to 600 lodgers and skiers. But recently, they have been averaging about 100. Mr. Hirvonen, a native Finn and former member of the United States Olympic cross-country ski team, has been introducing his guests to kyykka, a Finnish game similar to bowling, to entertain them in lieu of skiing.
But not everyone is suffering. Some stores say the disappointing outdoor climate is more than offset by the luxurious economic climate.
"We've been bombed with business," said Danny Canton, assistant manager of the ski shop at the Alpin Haus in Amsterdam, N.Y. "It's hard to explain, but the economy is good and people are optimistic that winter will eventually arrive."
Larger ski areas are also buffered from the vagaries of the weather by their ever-expanding snow-making capacity. In New England, several resorts that closed in the mid-90's have re-opened, usually with infusions of capital that went in part for snow machines. Even so, resorts large and small pray for snow, both for the money they would save on snow-making and for the enthusiasm it ignites in skiers.
"If they see snow in the backyard, they'll come," said Mr. Beers of the Blue Hills Ski Area.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the mild weather in New England misstated the number of consecutive days in which Boston had not had measurable snow. By Tuesday, the number was 295, not 395.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanley Beers, owner of the Blue Hills Ski Area in Canton, Mass., on one of his ski runs yesterday with temperatures in the 50's. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SKI (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (83%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (83%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (97%); MAINE, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SKIING CO (83%); CRESTED BUTTE MOUNTAIN RESORT INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); WESTERN STATES (US); ; UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHEAST USA (97%); MAINE, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SKIING; WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS SKIING FACILITIES (92%); SKIING (92%); RESORTS (90%); WEATHER (88%); CHRISTMAS (86%); MOUNTAINS (78%); HIKING (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); SNOWMOBILE DEALERS (67%); SECOND MORTGAGES (56%); MILLENNIUM (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY JIM SUTHERLAND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000



141 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 10; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Lots of Bad-Natured Floridians and One Good-Natured Dog

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

SICK PUPPY
By Carl Hiaasen
341 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
 It's hard to find someone to root for in Carl Hiaasen's latest over-the-edge comedy, "Sick Puppy," about avarice and corruption in what one of the novel's characters refers to as "the swamp of teeming greed known as Florida."
There are plenty of people to root against: the developers who want to cement over the entire Florida shoreline, the lobbyists who know which politicians to bribe to get the cementing done and the politicians themselves, particularly Gov. Dick Artemis, a former Toyota salesman who describes himself in interviews as "a people person's people person," inspiring groans from his staff. 
 Hemmed in by such repellent riffraff, the reader's heart inches out toward Twilly Spree, introduced by the text as "an unemployed 26-year-old college dropout with a brief but spectacular history of psychological problems." The narrator adds, "Not incidentally, he also had inherited millions of dollars."
You want to like Twilly because he's for the right things. He hates the developers and the despoilers of Florida's natural beauty. The trouble is that he carries things a little far, having been traumatized early in life by a developer-father who helped ruin the skyline of Marco Island with "a concrete picket of towering hotels and high-rise condominiums." Twilly carries things so far that early on we meet him in an anger-management course that he has to take because he blew up his uncle's bank for lending millions "to a rock-mining company that's digging craters in the Amazon River basin."
When the instructor suggests this might be acting out something subconscious, Twilly announces that he has no subconscious; he doesn't even dream. You want to like Twilly, but he's hard to identify with.
One day on the turnpike north of Yeehaw Junction, Twilly sees a Burger King hamburger carton fly out the window of a Range Rover, followed by a cup, a wadded paper napkin and another hamburger carton. To punish the litterbug, Twilly follows him home and arranges to have his wife's BMW convertible submerged in a ton of garbage.
When Twilly catches the driver littering again, he invades his house and dognaps his big black Labrador retriever, Boodle, whom he renames McGuinn after a favorite musician. When he discovers that the dog's owner, Palmer Stoat, is a lobbyist helping a developer to turn nearby Toad Island into "a golfer's paradise," Twilly tries to get him to stop by threatening the dog's life and sending Stoat what appear to be parts of the animal, although in fact Twilly is getting fond of McGuinn and wouldn't dream of harming him.
The developers retaliate by sicking nasty people on Twilly. The battle steadily escalates, and Mr. Hiaasen uses the resulting mayhem to spit poison at all he finds excessive about Florida, where of course he was reared and lives and writes a column for The Miami Herald.
It isn't so much that you grow fond of Twilly as that you come to revile most of the characters surrounding him, who often edge over into extremes. Besides the lobbyist Stoat, whose hobby is to shoot crippled big-game animals at the Wilderness Veldt Plantation near Ocala, there's the Toad Island developer, Robert Clapley, who has a fetish for Barbie Dolls and is arranging to convert two of his female friends into a life-size pair.
There's the menacing Mr. Gash, who collects recordings of 911 calls and sets them to music, including one from a hysterical man on a cell phone in a plane that is about to crash near Duluth, who wants the operator to cover for him by telling his wife why he isn't in Eau Claire. There's the conservative call girl who sleeps only with Republicans. There's the Toad Island project supervisor who hates all nature because as a child he was bitten on his scrotum by a chipmunk. There's the ex-governor who has retired to the Everglades and survives by eating road kill.
By comparison, Twilly, despite his unmanaged rage, seems positively benign. And he improves as the story progresses, falling in love with Stoat's beautiful, disaffected wife, Desirata, who begins to tame him. He even starts to dream. But the character who really keeps you involved in the plot is the black Lab, Boodle-McGuinn, the literal "sick puppy" of the title (something he swallowed has to be surgically removed), the less literal ones being legion in the story.
It is this galumphing creature that softens the novel's brutality and brings out the occasional burst of joy in Mr. Hiaasen's prose: "That's the thing about being a Labrador retriever -- you were born for fun. Seldom was your loopy, freewheeling mind cluttered by contemplation, and never at all by somber worry; every day was a romp. What else could there possibly be to life? Eating was a thrill. . . . And everywhere you went were gullible human beings who patted and hugged and fussed over you."
It is this animal that with its innocent clowning lends the story its moral perspective and gives some meaning to the novel's message, delivered by the road-kill-eating ex-governor, an angry counterpart to Twilly: "I will tell you there's probably no peace for people like you and me in this world. Somebody's got to be angry or nothing gets fixed. That's what we were put here for."
In fact, almost everyone in "Sick Puppy" seems to be angry. But this big, affectionate dog amid all the novel's cartoon sadism makes it possible for the reader to laugh.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carl Hiaasen. (Elena Seibert)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FLORIDA'S NATURAL GROWERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DOGS (89%); MAMMALS (87%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); BRIBERY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); PETS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); GOLF (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RIVERS (64%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (61%); 

PERSON: CARL HIAASEN (80%); PALMER STOAT (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



142 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A Wild Ride That's Not Over Yet

BYLINE: By FRED BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
THEY had promised their children a New Year's Eve ride on the British Airways London Eye, the 450-foot Ferris wheel that stands over the Thames across from Big Ben.
Instead, David Marks and Julia Barfield, the husband-and-wife architects who designed the structure, had to entertain their family on the ground. The children -- plus several hundred guests of British Airways, the wheel's primary sponsor -- were unable to ride after it failed an 11th-hour inspection. 
 For Ms. Barfield and Mr. Marks, who went into debt to get the $40 million wheel built, the failure of a clutch mechanism in one of its 32 passenger compartments was only the latest indignity. There were problems in October raising the 1,600-ton structure, which was constructed horizontally over the Thames, then hoisted to its vertical position. A few days later, nine environmentalists climbed the wheel and stayed overnight, in a protest against dam construction in India.
Now this. Jamie Bowden, a British Airways spokesman, said that the clutch failed during a Dec. 30 simulation and that it is being disassembled and tested. He added: "If we have found a 'rogue' clutch, it could be fixed by possibly the end of this week." If the problem is not just with that clutch, repairs could take longer, he said.
"Everyone was a bit gutted," Mr. Marks said, using a Britishism for disappointed. Yet, he and Ms. Barfield, who have lived in the same modest South London house for 25 years, are philosophical. "It was still a great New Year's Eve," Mr. Marks said. The couple were honored by Tony Blair (they're now Members of the British Empire, he said) and got to see the wheel illuminated by fireworks. Mr. Marks continued, "A friend called from Wilkes-Barre, Pa., to tell us how gorgeous the wheel looked on TV." He added, "We're chuffed," which, he explained, means happy.
The mixed emotions -- gutted and chuffed -- were shared by 250 Britons who had won tickets to the wheel's debut in a national competition. As compensation, British Airways said it would give them round-trip tickets to any of its destinations, and it promised rain checks when the wheel opens. Mr. Bowden said he was still hoping for Feb. 1, with a celebration two weeks later, on Valentine's Day. (Several hundred Londoners have already applied to be married on the wheel.)
Seven years ago, when the couple proposed the wheel, their small South London architecture firm was in the midst of a recession. "We proposed it as something uplifting for the country for the millennium and, frankly, something uplifting for ourselves," Mr. Marks said.
He said computers allowed them to design an unusually thin wheel. "It's twice as tall as the original Ferris wheel, in Chicago," he said, "but only half the weight." The lightness also meant that the wheel needed few supports and that it could be cantilevered over the Thames. That, said Mr. Marks, who has ridden the wheel several times, means that "as soon as you get into the capsule, you're experiencing an amazing view."
Still, Mr. Marks and Ms. Barfield, both 47, had no reason to assume that their wheel would be built. Then, a London newspaper, The Evening Standard, made the structure, said to be the world's largest Ferris wheel, a pet cause. Mr. Marks said, "They interviewed celebrities about the idea, and only published the favorable quotes."
Eventually, Mr. Marks and Ms. Barfield formed a corporation and began seeking sponsors, a process that, they say, left them heavily in debt. "It's almost as if people test you, to see how much you're willing to sacrifice to get it built," Mr. Marks said in an interview in December at his home, where he and his wife were both suffering from the flu. They admit to spending too much time away from their three children during the years they devoted to the wheel. When their son, Benjamin, now 13, presented Ms. Barfield with a painting of the wheel for her recent birthday, they considered it a peace offering.
The wheel's 32 capsules, shaped like Airstream trailers and hanging from the wheel like jewels, will each hold 25 passengers. The ride will take 30 minutes, and is, Mr. Marks said, "an efficient way to get people up to great heights." (Indeed, Ben doesn't look so Big next to the wheel, which is said to be one of the tallest structures in London. On a clear day, the view will take in Windsor Castle, 25 miles away.) So far, more than half a million tickets have been sold at 7.45 and 4.95 for children, about $12 and $8, meaning the sponsors could well make back their investment. The wheel is expected to remain up for five years.
Now, Ms. Barfield and Mr. Marks, who let the rest of their architectural practice languish during their wheel years, say they need to focus on finding other work.
Eight miles east of their wheel, the Millennium Dome, which cost 30 times as much (and was paid for by a national lottery), is languishing. (The couple, who both worked for its architect, Richard Rogers, say he has been very supportive of their competing project.) The Guardian's architecture critic, Jonathan Glancey, called the dome "a 70's mall in a grimy tent."
By contrast, the wheel has been a crowd pleaser. Even Richard Branson, whose Virgin Airways competes with British Airways, praised the wheel's beauty, adding, "It's the best thing British Air has done in 20 years." One Londoner observed, "It's captured the imagination, so people are forgiving of its problems."
Ms. Barfield, at her home in South London (where the biggest wheel is on her daughter's hot pink bicycle), displayed a Christmas card from the family's dentist. It featured a drawing of the Millennium Dome, under a gentle snowfall, Currier & Ives style. Oh, the indignities. Next year, she hopes, the card will show the millennium wheel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: LETDOWN -- London Eye, the giant Ferris wheel on the Thames, failed a safety test. Inset: David Marks and Julia Barfield, the designers, hope their unusually thin wheel will have its debut on Feb. 1. (Toby Melville/Reuters; Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (67%); INDIA (55%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (67%); INDIA (55%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (53%); 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



143 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 3; Column 4; Circuits

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: NEWS WATCH;
New York State Receives A Low-Tech Rating

BYLINE: By BRUCE HEADLAM

 BODY:
Is New York State at the corner of Silicon and Nowhere? According to a recent report by Forrester Research, the home of Silicon Alley is closer to a digital Dogpatch than a technological nirvana.
The report mapped the country according to "receptiveness to and adoption of technology," by comparing states on number of computers in homes and offices, online purchases and a subjective category, "optimism about technology." Among the "fast lane" states were Texas, Georgia and Connecticut. New York was ranked a giant step down as a "middle of the road" state. 
 Ekaterina Walsh, an analyst with Forrester, said that a surprisingly large factor was the proportion of urban and rural areas. "The rural parts really set off the advances of the big cities," she said.
New York can take heart that Washington, home to Microsoft, was another also-ran. "Again, rural areas," Ms. Walsh said. "Of course, you have a concentration around Seattle and Redmond. But in other parts of the state, you might as well be in Montana or Idaho." BRUCE HEADLAM
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); 

PERSON: EKATERINA WALSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



144 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: Let Them In, to Work

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Home Aides for Elderly in Short Supply" (news article, Jan. 3): 
 In a world troubled by extreme poverty, it is absurd for Americans to lament a shortage of low-wage workers. We forget the thousands of people on this planet who would treasure the chance to earn $7 an hour. It is time to share the prosperity of this booming economy by loosening our immigration laws, a simple yet often overlooked solution.
 
WELLS JACOBSON JR.
Princeton, N.J., Jan. 3, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (85%); WAGES & SALARIES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (51%); IMMIGRATION LAW (51%); 

PERSON: WELLS JACOBSON JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



145 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Rally EndsAbruptly in Asia As Stock Markets Plummet

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Stock markets across much of Asia plummeted today, abruptly ending a post-millennium rally, as investors here reacted with alarm to Wall Street's stumble on Tuesday.
Fears that the United States plans to raise interest rates prompted investors to dump shares in blue-chip companies from Seoul to Singapore. The selloff was most severe in Hong Kong, where the benchmark Hang Seng index plunged 7.2 percent, or 1,226 points, its second-largest point loss in history. 
 But while the flood of losses seemed to echo the tumultuous first days of the Asian economic crisis, analysts said there was little reason to panic. They said that investors were mainly seeking to lock in their profits after a powerful year-end rally, particularly in high-flying technology stocks.
"It's not a surprise because virtually every day over the last two months, we have been waiting and wondering when the market would correct," said Dong Tao, a regional strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston in Hong Kong. "Asia's recovery is still very much alive," he added.
In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei index fell 460.31 points, or 2.4 percent, to 18,542.55. But importantly, more shares gained value than lost value, as investors took their money out of technology and Internet stocks and put it into traditional sectors like construction, steel and chemicals.
"These are the stocks to be looking at," said Craig Chudler, a strategist at Nikko Salomon Smith Barney in Tokyo. "There are real opportunities in those bombed-out areas of the market, whereas the Sonys and Softbanks have been oversold," he said, referring to two popular Japanese technology stocks.
In other Asian markets, it was hard to see the big picture as the losses piled up. South Korea's market dropped 6.9 percent, or 72.73 points, its worst single-day point loss ever. Shares in Singapore declined by 5.5 percent, while the markets in Malaysia and Thailand fell 2.2 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively.
China's stock markets took some hits as well, though not as badly. In the southern city of Shenzhen adjoining Hong Kong, the stock index representing shares that can be purchased by foreign investors fell 2.5 percent, and a similar index in Shanghai ended unchanged. Shares of companies available only to Chinese investors rose, however, with the main index in Shanghai gaining 3.6 percent.
Taiwan avoided the rout. Taipei's weighted price index rose 1.1 percent as investors bought shares of semiconductor companies. Taiwan's market is driven by technology manufacturers -- as opposed to Internet-related concerns -- which makes it less vulnerable to wild swings.
Though stock markets in Asia have always paid attention to Wall Street, the link has become closer as Asian countries have come to depend on the United States as the locomotive pulling them out of recession. Investors here worry that if the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, as is widely expected, it would diminish the appetite of American consumers for goods from Asia.
That fear is magnified in Hong Kong because the former British colony ties the value of its currency to the United States dollar. When the United States raises interest rates, Hong Kong's banks must follow suit to defend the value of the Hong Kong dollar. Hong Kong has put last year's recession behind it, but some people fear that higher rates could strangle the recovery.
Asia's sensitivity to the United States has also been heightened by the recent surge in popularity of technology stocks here. Shares of companies like Softbank in Japan and Pacific Century CyberWorks in Hong Kong have propelled the broader markets to record levels.
As a result, when the Nasdaq composite index, which lists many top American technology stocks, fell 5.6 percent on Tuesday, its reverberations were felt in Asia. Pacific Century -- an Internet-related company that has been the toast of Hong Kong, even throwing the most talked-about New Year's Eve party -- slid 15 percent, to $16.05 a share.
Analysts said such setbacks were to be expected, given the torrid performance of most Asian markets in the last six months. Shares in Tokyo rose 37 percent in 1999, buoyed by hopes that Japan is finally pulling out of its chronic downturn. Hong Kong's market plowed through 17,000 points on the first day of trading in 2000, after soaring from one record after another last week.
Today, the Hang Seng index plummeted more than 1,000 points in the opening minutes of trading, to less than 16,000, before stabilizing. The steep decline prompted Hong Kong's financial secretary, Sir Donald Tsang, to appeal for calm among investors. The market recovered in the afternoon, closing at 15,846.72, 158 points above its lowest point of the day.
But Asia is worlds away from October 1997, when a market crash in Hong Kong augured a financial crisis across the region. In those tense days, investors were unnerved by a series of currency devaluations and the dawning recognition that hundreds of Asian banks and companies were effectively insolvent.
Now, after two painful years, most Asian countries are emerging from recession faster than expected. And while the region's initial recovery was driven by exports -- particularly in Korea and Malaysia -- economists say domestic consumption is perking up in these countries as well.
"If this had happened a few months earlier, it would have much more threatening," Mr. Tao of Credit Suisse said. "Asia's recovery depended much more on exports, and investors were still very fragile."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Asia's Nasdaq Flu"
Just as Asian stock markets followed the upward path blazed by the Nasdaq composite index, they tumbled when the technology-laden American index dropped sharply earlier this week.
 
Graph tracks the daily close of the following indexes since December 1: Nasdaq; Hang Seng; Straits Times Index; Jakarta Composite; Nikkei; Korea Composite; Kuala Lumpur Composite; Thai Stock Exchange
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (97%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); JAPAN (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (70%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (97%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); JAPAN (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ASIA STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ELECTRONICS (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



146 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: The State of New York State

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki, offering an intriguing wish list in his State of the State address yesterday, focused on public education, the environment and boosting the lagging upstate economy. The New York governor's opening proposal on education shifts attention to a hot political topic that has seldom appeared high on his priority list. While the tendency is to see this speech as a semaphore signal to Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to consider Mr. Pataki as a running mate, the worth of some of these proposals makes such assessments secondary, especially if Mr. Pataki follows through.
Governor Pataki offered a promising plan to relieve an acute shortage of qualified teachers expected in New York over the next few years. He proposed such environmental advances as a research institute to study rivers and estuaries, which he characterized as a "Woods Hole on the Hudson." And he laid out a questionable $700 million package of tax cuts and economic incentives to spread the nation's economic boom to upstate New York. 
 Although this annual speech is traditionally designed to sell concepts with little supporting detail, Governor Pataki's five-point education plan outlines ways to attract new teachers to disadvantaged schools. The idea of providing free tuition for CUNY or SUNY students who commit to teaching in these high-risk areas sounds especially encouraging. So does a summer school tutoring program using college juniors, and his proposal to allow retired public employees to teach without losing their retirement benefits. A plan to help uncertified teachers and to allow talented people to teach without going through the normal vetting system deserves a fair hearing.
The governor's tax and incentive proposals -- especially his effort to phase out a $500 million energy tax primarily on large businesses -- are aimed at his constituency in upstate New York. But the resulting revenue cuts would strain a state budget already facing multibillion-dollar gaps in the next two fiscal years. Even more troubling is his proposal to cap local school budgets and require two-thirds of the voters to approve going above those state-imposed limits. Such a plan would make it difficult for school boards trying to meet new academic standards in less affluent districts.
The governor failed to mention his proposal for campaign finance reform last year or the need to open the state's primary ballot to a broader array of candidates on March 7. Still, the teacher plan was worth the effort. Now Mr. Pataki must add the detailed legislation and necessary funds to go along with yesterday's pronouncements. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



147 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1802 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Investors Become Bullish On Merrill Lynch;
Focus on the Personal Touch

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TAKAMATSU, Japan

 BODY:
The "ginza," or shopping street, of this quintessential Japanese town on the island of Shikoku looks much like the ginza of any other moderately sized city here.
Covered to protect shoppers from rain, the thoroughfare is lined with mom-and-pop stores selling everything from ramen to slippers. 
 It is also home to one of the most successful Japanese branches of Merrill Lynch and Company, which has placed the biggest, riskiest bet so far in the effort by foreigners to sell ever-so-wary Japanese on American-style asset management.
"In places like Takamatsu, Sendai, Mayabashi, we have really built some momentum," said Ronald Strauss, head of Merrill's retail operations here. "If you had asked me a year ago whether some branch in a place I'd never heard of would be our leader, I would have laughed. But so much here depends on the branch manager and his relationships."
A year ago, the "thundering herd," as Merrill is known, had a pronounced limp in Japan. Competitors and the news media were clucking over the stunningly frank and gloomy assessment by David H. Komansky, the chairman, of the firm's progress in building a retail business here. Analysts wondered aloud why Merrill had not tackled Japan via the Internet, surely a less expensive, less risky route.
But Merrill stuck to its original hunch that an old-fashioned approach would work best -- that a personal touch, a focus on the whole customer, was far better than the bells and whistles of electronic trading. And this approach seems to be paying off.
Merrill, to be sure, had a rocky start. Losses were greater and assets far harder to come by than it had expected when it picked over the bones of the bankrupt Yamaichi Securities firm, which it used to lay the foundation for its initial network of 33 branches.
Japan's gossip-hungry magazines were filled with stories of mass defections by unhappy brokers, and Merrill's branches always seemed to be empty.
"It was rather difficult," conceded Kenichi Hayakawa, manager of Merrill's branch in Sendai, Japan's 10th-largest city, about 200 miles north of Tokyo.
But things have picked up. In April, the Sendai branch became profitable, he said, and has now garnered more assets than Yamaichi had collected there in 60 years. "It's like being in a samurai battle in which we've won one small castle," Mr. Hayakawa said proudly.
This fall, Merrill hit a target of 1 trillion yen, or $9.59 billion, in assets; it has more than 60,000 clients; and it was recently identified as one of the top places Japanese youth would like to work for.
The pickup in the Japanese stock market certainly helped, Mr. Strauss said, but that is not the main reason for Merrill's success.
And as Japanese investors ponder where to put some $475 billion in high-interest-rate deposits that will start maturing in April, Merrill is perhaps best positioned to capture a good part of it.
"While one may pick apart the initial projections for asset gathering and break-even time, it is tough to dispute that the firm is ahead of its U.S. peers in gaining a foothold," Joan S. Solotar, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, wrote recently in a report.
Why? Precisely because of Merrill's presence in places like Sendai and Takamatsu, the largest town on Shikoku, the smallest of Japan's four main islands.
What many skeptics seem to have overlooked is that this is Japan, home of the world's most cautious investors. They were burned badly in the stock market almost a decade ago, when the Nikkei index plunged more than 60 percent in a little over two years. Basic concepts like asset allocation, compound interest and diversification are poorly understood here. Merrill brokers can help explain these concepts.
In addition, the government has for decades used a variety of tax and other incentives to encourage saving and discourage investing, so it seems unlikely that older Japanese, who hold the bulk of the nation's wealth, would be raring to hop onto the World Wide Web to invest.
But the elderly do know that with government and private pension funds vastly underfinanced, they will have to finance their own retirements. And young families are keenly aware that housing allowances and tuition credits subsidized by corporations are things of the past.
"I had hoped I could live off the interest generated by my savings, but Japanese interest rates are now at zero," said Mirei Shoji, a 67-year-old customer in Sendai. "I know stock and other investments have risks, but they also have rewards, and that's a chance I have to take."
It was her former Yamaichi broker, Yoko Nitta, who brought Mrs. Shoji to Merrill. "I didn't know anything about Merrill Lynch, but I trusted Nitta-san," Mrs. Shoji said.
So far, she is pleased. "When you deal with Japanese brokers, it's like dealing with a cloud," she said. "They bring you a pamphlet touting a stock, that's it."
She waved around a dog-eared copy of a Merrill report on the NEC Corporation. "This is the most wonderful thing about Merrill," she said. "The openness and the information is wonderful."
As Mrs. Shoji demonstrates, the skeptics have paid too little attention to the premium placed on relationships in Japan, face-to-face ties that deepen with time. Merrill's style of catering to customers may seem outmoded by American standards, but in Japan, where the stock market is regarded as little more than a casino, the personal touch will be needed to lure money out of government-insured bank accounts and the family chest.
"I'm not interested in making a huge profit," said Kensaku Yano, the 84-year-old founder of a regional supermarket chain that went public a few years ago. "I just want a good, trusting relationship with my broker."
Mr. Yano was one of the first to open an account at Merrill in Takamatsu. He had had an account at the local Yamaichi branch and still has accounts at other brokerage firms as well.
But he gets better treatment at Merrill, he said, adding that Japanese brokers urge him to trade stocks almost daily to generate commissions.
"I lost so much money at Nikko Securities because they put me in such bad stocks that my broker there gave me seven shares of NTT DoCoMo to try to make up for it," Mr. Yano said, using the popular name for the NTT Mobile Communications Network Corporation.
As it happens, those NTT shares did well -- they are now worth roughly $239,000 -- but he closed his account at Nikko anyway.
Such eyebrow-raising practices are the way most Japanese expect to do business with brokers, and convincing them that Merrill is any different has been a tough sell.
The typical office of a Japanese brokerage firm resembles an off-track betting parlor, with clusters of older men sitting around chain-smoking and watching a big screen flashing stock prices.
Asset management is an alien concept, with a heavy reliance on "churning" -- moving clients in and out of stocks rapidly, whether it makes sense or not.
"The typical Japanese client has gotten an impression that investing is sitting around and watching the board, buying a stock one day, selling it the next, maybe making money and maybe losing a lot," said Hidekazu Yoshimoto, manager of Merrill's Takamatsu branch.
Merrill wants clients' assets to grow, since bigger assets mean bigger fees. That requires brokers to have a certain understanding of clients' financial profiles, how much they already have invested in other securities, whether or not they have mortgages, what their goals and aspirations are.
In privacy-mad Japan, getting that kind of information is a challenge. "It's difficult to drop in on a client and say, 'So, what have you got in the way of assets?' " Mr. Yoshimoto said.
Indeed, many potential clients thought that Merrill wanted to know too much, that its fledgling brokers were too insistent on obtaining information, and it cost Merrill business.
"Clients are still very accustomed to the ways of traditional Japanese securities firms," Mr. Yoshimoto said. "When they receive a call from a broker, they expect to hear about new products, but we're telling them about new services and ways they can manage their money to build value. I think it was a bit of a severe culture shock."
One client was so skeptical when Mr. Yoshimoto told him Merrill had abolished the flashing screen from its branches that he drove halfway around Shikoku Island to see for himself. Satisfied, he deposited 100 million yen.
"The majority of clients we've signed up have never had accounts at a securities firm before," Mr. Yoshimoto said. "They're looking at how low interest rates are and worrying about the future, when they'll have to pay for retirement."
The former Yamaichi brokers who joined Merrill have also had to adapt: to managing assets rather than pushing stocks; to a pay system based increasingly on performance; to new responsibility; and even to a new freedom. Many have left, grumbling, but others, particularly women, have embraced the changes.
"We can say no to no-good products," said Seiko Takahashi, a financial consultant at Merrill's Sendai branch who had worked part time at Yamaichi. "We can honestly say what we think. It's a great feeling, a feeling like you're clean."
Her advice would have saved one of her more reckless clients, Soichiro Miura, quite a bit of money, had he listened. "I told him not to purchase Sansui," she said. "I said no three times, and when he overrode me the fourth time, I told him, 'well, if you want to throw your money into the sewer, go ahead.' "
He did. "I lost a lot of money," Mr. Miura said. "But next time, maybe I'll listen more carefully."
Mr. Miura, a dentist, is a typical Japanese investor. He has dabbled in futures and options and more exotic investments and lost plenty. He has even tried his hand at online trading. "I bought a PC in 1998," he said. "I didn't know what to do with it, but my friend was interested in stocks and trading stocks online. I got so submerged in trading online and all the information you can get online that I couldn't go to sleep, so I had to stop."
He regards equity investing as gambling, he said, but he was attracted to Merrill by its pledge to help him accumulate assets. He met with Mrs. Takahashi and liked what he heard. She supplies him with quarterly reports on companies, faxes him updates, sends him Merrill's research and calls him when the market makes any big move.
Japanese firms "were only calling me to tell me I should buy this new stock and sell that one," Mr. Miura said. "They didn't really care whether I made money."
While he still likes to play the market, he has set a certain goal for building his assets, at which point he will allow Mrs. Takahashi to make recommendations about diversifying. "Takahashi-san gives me peace of mind," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hidekazu Yoshimoto, right, manager of Merrill's Takamatsu branch, bows to customers leaving the office. (Stuart Isett/Corbis Sygma, for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The Japanese set aside a lot more money than Americans do . . ."
Graph compares the percentage of disposable household income saved for the United States and Japan since 1984.
 
. . . but they tend to save mostly in banking and time-deposit accounts that no longer earn much interest . . .
 
Total household savings in interest-bearing accounts, as a percentage of gross domestic product, at the end of 1997
JAPAN -- 151%
UNITED STATES -- 53%
 
. . . setting off a scramble to encourage them to invest more in the stock and bond markets
 
Other allocations of household assets, as a percentage of gross domestic product, at the end of 1997
 
BONDS
JAPAN: 6%
UNITED STATES: 23%
 
STOCKS
JAPAN: 12%
UNITED STATES: 71%
 
MUTUAL FUNDS
JAPAN: 6%
UNITED STATES: 32%
 
(Sources: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Bank of Japan and Federal Reserve via Merrill Lynch)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (85%); MER (NYSE) (85%); 8675 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SHIKOKU, JAPAN (92%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SHIKOKU, JAPAN (92%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: JAPAN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RETAILERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); TRENDS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



148 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Ivory Coast Says It Is Halting Payments on Debt

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Accusing the ousted government of plundering state coffers, Ivory Coast's first military ruler, Gen. Robert Guei, said today that he was suspending the country's staggering foreign-debt payments.
General Guei's announcement apparently reversed his pledge last week to honor international commitments inherited from the elected government that he ousted in a coup on Christmas Eve. 
 "We have temporarily suspended payments of foreign commitments," General Guei said in a statement, explaining that coffers were empty. "Only after a thousand gymnastic moves were we even able to pay salaries."
"As you can imagine, the pillage was immense and systematic," General Guei said in the statement. He said his administration had begun auditing state accounts to learn who is responsible for missing funds.
He did not say whether Ivory Coast intended to resume debt payments later on to the World Bank, European Union, International Monetary Fund and other lenders.
On Tuesday, General Guei named himself president and defense minister in an interim coalition government. The new cabinet was sworn in today.
Ivory Coast, long one of Africa's most stable and prosperous countries, built up a huge debt -- estimated at $19.7 billion in 1996 -- during nearly four decades under the party of the ousted president, Henri Konan Bedie.
The junta's move to halt debt payments threatens to aggravate the financial crisis. Last year, the monetary fund and the European Union slashed aid to the country after corruption allegations against the Bedie government.
Since the coup, the United States and Canada have also cut aid to the West African country. France, the former colonial ruler, is scaling back its support. And the European Union's representative, Catherine Travin, said today that European officials were scheduled to hold talks with the junta that could lead to further aid cuts.
The coup came during an economic decline linked to falling prices for Ivory Coast's main exports, coffee and cocoa. Tensions increased sharply during the final months of Mr. Bedie's government, which was widely accused of corruption and stirring ethnic enmities.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COUPS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); CORRUPTION (79%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); 

PERSON: ROBERT GUEI (93%); HENRI KONAN BEDIE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



149 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Rule on Ads for Diet Supplements Is Revised

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
The makers of vitamins, herbs and dietary supplements may market products for natural conditions like morning sickness, hot flashes and memory loss in aging without proving they are safe or effective, the Food and Drug Administration announced today.
The decision, which reverses an earlier proposal, marks the latest in a series of legal and regulatory victories for the dietary supplement business, which has been growing by leaps and bounds since Congress passed a law in 1994 that severely restricted the F.D.A.'s authority to regulate the industry. 
 The move enraged and startled consumer advocates, who said it would weaken patient protections.
"This is a snake-oil exemption," said Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, director of the Public Citizen's Health Research Group in Washington. "It's a complete cave-in to the industry."
But drug agency officials said the new rule, which will take effect 30 days from Thursday, was an important part of their 10-year strategy to increase consumer confidence in the safety, composition and labeling of vitamins, herbs and other nutritional aids that have become an integral part of the lives of millions of Americans.
"This is not a free-for-all," said Peggy Dotzel, the associate acting commissioner for policy at the F.D.A. "What the agency is doing is faithfully carrying out the intent of Congress in passing the law."
The law is the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, which distinguishes between products that makers say "affect the structure or function of the body" and those that are said to prevent, treat or cure disease. The law allows supplement manufacturers to sell products without F.D.A. approval -- and therefore without the rigorous safety and efficacy review that is required of drugs -- as long as they make only structure or function claims, and not claims related to disease.
But the law was not specific. So the F.D.A. decided it needed a new regulation to clarify its authority, and to delineate which claims fall into which category.
The rule put forth today was first proposed nearly two years ago, in April 1998. At the time, the agency said that while natural states like aging, pregnancy, menopause and adolescence were not diseases, they could be associated with abnormal conditions -- like morning sickness or premenstrual syndrome -- that are diseases. Products intended for those conditions would then have required F.D.A. approval.
But after reviewing thousands of public comments from industry representatives, consumers and others, Ms. Dotzel said, "the agency was convinced that these, in fact, are not diseases."
"These are normal, common conditions that are associated with the different stages of life." she said. "So claims about these conditions are not disease claims."
However, the rule states that uncommon or serious conditions associated with these life stages will still be treated as diseases. So a company may market a dietary supplement for teenagers who have acne, but not for acne so severe that the symptoms include cysts.
Industry representatives said they had not had time to review the new rule, which is 281 pages long, and could not comment on it in detail. But Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman for the Consumer Healthcare Products Association, a trade group representing 80 manufacturers of over-the-counter drugs and dietary supplements, said her organization was "cautiously optimistic" about the way the regulation had narrowed the definition of what is a disease.
"We thought the proposed rule was way too broad," Ms. Russell said.
The final rule precludes manufacturers from making what the F.D.A. describes as express disease claims or those that are implied. For instance, manufacturers cannot state that a product "prevents osteoporosis" or even that it "prevents bone fragility in post-menopausal women," without obtaining F.D.A. approval. But a company could say its product "maintains a healthy circulatory system" or that it promotes relaxation.
One academic expert said today that it was a tricky business to draw distinctions between diseases and a natural life passages.
"If they are going to make a distinction between diseases and normal states, they are on a slippery slope," said the expert, Dr. Richard A. Friedman, director of the psychopharmacology clinic at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University.
For instance, Dr. Friedman said, there is no laboratory test for dementia, so a person who takes the herb ginko for memory loss due to aging might in fact be in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease.
And he cautioned that just because a product was natural did not mean it was necessarily safe. Dr. Friedman and others were especially worried that, under the F.D.A.'s interpretation of the law, a pregnant women might endanger her fetus by taking an herbal product for morning sickness.
"It doesn't make any difference whether a product is synthetic or found in a plant," Dr. Friedman said. "It can be just as potent biologically."
Legal experts said the F.D.A. had little choice but to act as it did.
"F.D.A. has not done well in this area," said Robert G. Pinco, a food and drug lawyer who, in the 1970's, ran the agency's division for regulating over-the-counter drugs. "Every time they have gone into court to try to limit one of these claims, they have lost. It's because Congress has really changed the paradigm."
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH GROUP (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (91%); BOTANICAL SUPPLEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); NUTRITION (78%); MENOPAUSE (78%); DRUG EFFICACY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); DRUG SAFETY (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FOOD LABELING (73%); 

PERSON: RICHARD A FRIEDMAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



150 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Croatian Victors Fret About What Awaits Them

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Croatia, Jan. 5

 BODY:
In the midst of the euphoria and high expectations following their convincing victory in parliamentary elections on Monday, leaders of Croatia's democratic opposition are growing concerned about when they will be able to take power and what they will find when they do so.
Ivica Racan, the moderate former Communist who will become the country's new prime minister, said in an interview today that it could be a month or more before Croatia's cumbersome constitutional process allows him to form a government. 
 "Of course we have a program of political and economic change," Mr. Racan said wryly. "But we'll have to see what the real situation is with the budget and everything else. It will be much worse, I think."
Mr. Racan, leader of the Social Democrats, and his coalition partner, the presidential hopeful Drazen Budisa of the Social Liberals, will govern with the help of an allied four-party coalition. They will replace the Croatian Democratic Union, which has run the country since the late president, Franjo Tudjman, took Croatia out of Yugoslavia in 1991.
"Tudjmanism -- this mixture of authoritarianism, nationalism and socialism -- is dead with its creator," said Mirko Galic, editor in chief of the independent weekly Globus. But with the death of Mr. Tudjman last month and the rebuff to his party, known as the H.D.Z., "we're really entering a period of instability," said Damir Matkovic, a television journalist. "It's a sort of paradox, but real freedom has come. And the problems the H.D.Z. is leaving are so deep and complicated you can't solve them quickly or without real pain."
Dividing up the spoils among six opposition parties of different ideologies and constituencies will be hard enough. But it will be easier than pulling the country out of the habits and shoals of a formerly socialist economy already in deep recession. Unemployment is well over 20 percent, there is a large budget deficit and a $10 billion national debt, foreign investment is declining and a fifth of the 4.8 million Croatians are due some kind of government pension while the pension fund is practically bankrupt.
"Racan and Budisa have to move quickly, in the next two or three weeks, to lay out a comprehensive plan of economic reform," a Western diplomat said. If they do not, he said, "they'll be dead, and this euphoria will turn against them."
Mr. Racan and Mr. Budisa are discussing some symbolic steps to distance themselves from the past, including giving up state control over Tito's resort on Brioni, which Mr. Tudjman loved, and moving the presidential apparatus out of the former Tito villa where it now operates as a separate fief, bringing it closer to Parliament.
Washington is already preparing a package of moves, both substantive and symbolic, to aid the new government, whose election the Clinton administration supported. That package will include economic advisers, a quick opening of talks with Croatia about joining a NATO program called Partnership for Peace, and a visit by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, perhaps for the new president's inauguration.
Proposals for more substantive American aid are still being discussed, officials said, and Washington will expect the new government to take quick action first on promises to free up the media, respect human rights and cooperate better in Bosnia and with the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague.
But Mr. Racan will want to move carefully so as not to leave himself open to attacks in a Croatia that remains "extremely, even rabidly nationalist," a senior European diplomat said. Another Western diplomat expressed concern that the tribunal will ask too much of Mr. Racan's government just as it is trying to push unpopular economic changes.
Much will also depend on who is elected president, with the first round of voting on Jan. 24 and a second round expected Feb. 7. The main opposition candidate, Mr. Budisa, is also a strong nationalist, and the current foreign minister, Mate Granic, the H.D.Z. candidate, is considered relatively moderate, at least in the context of his party.
Either would be easier to work with than Mr. Tudjman. Diplomats say Washington would have preferred Mr. Granic to run as an independent and not as the candidate of the H.D.Z. American officials are wary of what promises he may have made to more conservative or nationalist officials to obtain his party's nomination. But the H.D.Z.'s stinging defeat in the parliamentary vote has hurt Mr. Granic's chances and helped those of Mr. Budisa.
Mr. Racan is also concerned about the high expectations that Croatians now have about rapid change from a new government. People tell him, he said, that "we know it will be difficult for you, and that you must change many things in Croatia, but don't change yourself." They want honest government, he said; that at least he can try to provide them.
But a spokesman for the winning coalition, Tihomir Ladisic, thinks there is real danger in the long gap between winning the election and forming a government.
The state electoral commission found irregularities in 11 polling places, and there is talk of vote-rigging among Bosnian Croats. New voting in those polling places will take place on Jan. 16, the commission announced, thus delaying both the official results and the convening of a new Parliament. The current acting president, a member of the H.D.Z., has the right, under the Constitution, to wait for up to 20 days after the official results are in to call a new Parliament into session.
The new Parliament must elect a new speaker and acting president, who must then ask a political leader, presumably Mr. Racan, to form a government. But it might not be called into session until after at least the first round of presidential voting on Jan. 24, or even until the new president is elected and inaugurated, and some diplomats here think that could take until mid-February.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Croatian opposition leaders Ivica Racan, right, and Drazen Budisa, studied the first results in parliamentary elections that they won convincingly, while supporters, below, made their happiness clear. Still, despite the glee they are growing concerned about what they will find when they take power. (Photographs by Wade Goddard/Corbis Sygma, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: H D Z (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: H D Z (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); JOURNALISM (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PENSION FUNDS (66%); WRITERS (66%); RECESSION (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: IVICA RACAN (93%); FRANJO TUDJMAN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



151 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Radio Squeezes Empty Air Space for Profit

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
Rush Limbaugh said he noticed it about two months ago. Listeners to his daily radio show were sending in e-mail messages by the thousands, asking why there were more commercials on his three-hour talk-radio program.
"At first I didn't know what they were talking about," Mr. Limbaugh said. "I was talking for the same amount of time every day." 
 He may have been speaking for the same amount of time, but his words were, without his knowledge, being sucked into a temporal never-never land. A new kind of digital technology was literally snipping out the silent pockets between words, shortening the pauses and generally speeding up the pace of Mr. Limbaugh's speech.
In New York City, listeners to WABC heard the accelerated version of Mr. Limbaugh's program, causing Mr. Limbaugh to complain about it during a broadcast.
With no fanfare, the digital program -- called Cash in the direct manner of software nomenclature, because that's what it makes -- has established a foothold in the radio industry in the last six months. General managers at about 50 radio stations across the country are using it, to quicken talk programs so that they can wedge in more commercials. Radio stations are adding as many as four minutes of commercial time an hour -- or eight 30-second commercials. At one point, some stations added as many as six minutes of commercials, the maximum allowed by the technology, but eventually pulled back.
While the radio industry has previously used devices to speed up programming, this is the first time that time compression has been applied on live programming to expressly make room for more advertising. And the new device has angered radio denizens like Mr. Limbaugh, who says he uses pauses for emphasis much like an actor raises an eyebrow on stage. He spared no hyperbole when he spoke in an interview of its potential impact on radio: "I think it is potential doom for the radio industry," he said.
Mr. Limbaugh may be accustomed to predicting doom, but in an economy where advertising dollars are plentiful and radio stations can, as a result of deregulation, run as many commercials as listeners will tolerate, some say the radio industry is like a hungry child staring at an open cookie jar.
While radio executives say the impact of the Cash technology is often imperceptible to consumers, advertising executives complain that there is already too much clutter on the dial, making each commercial less effective. Other critics point to a larger issue: that the growth in commercials in recent years, combined with listeners drifting toward other media, may be helping to eat away at the radio audience.
Shrinking radio's content reflects the growing impulse to cram in advertising wherever and whenever possible. Once punctuating the cultural landscape, commercials now dominate it, from the flashing computer screens at the local deli cash register to the piped-in advertisements on corporate telephone lines to airport baggage carousels and supermarket floors.
Critics say that jamming too many ads on radio is one of the first places commercial overload becomes swiftly apparent. James Duncan, president of Duncan's American Radio, a Cincinnati-based broadcasting industry consulting group, said that asderegulation has loosened the industry's limits on commercials, their number has jumped to 20 commercials an hour, from about a dozen. That typically represents a rise of about 10 minutes an hour to, in some programs, as much as 30 minutes.
Since 1990, the total time Americans have spent listening to radio programming has shrunk by 12 percent, Mr. Duncan said. According to figures from Arbitron, the independent research agency that tracks radio ratings, time spent listening has indeed fallen in the last decade, to 21 hours 15 minutes a week, from 23 hours 45 minutes a week -- a decline of 10.5 percent.
"We are throwing way too many commercials at our listeners," Mr. Duncan said. "I think stations will slowly realize that there is a maximum that listeners can stand, and if they don't they will seriously downgrade their listenership."
But expanding commercial time has proved too tempting for the radio industry, which is experiencing boom times thanks to the healthy economy but also partly because the industry is now owned by a small cluster of giants like Clear Channel Communications, which has a pending deal to buy AMFM; the Infinity Broadcasting division of CBS; and Walt Disney's Capital Cities/ABC Broadcast Group. As the industry has consolidated, the economics of radio management have become more efficient, streamlining ad sales and centralizing programming.
The Radio Advertising Bureau estimates that radio sales will have reached $15.5 billion for 1999. Advertising revenue was up 14 percent on the local level and 27 percent on the national level through October 1999, compared with the same period the previous year, the bureau said.
When Cash became available last spring, it seemed a natural outgrowth of the advertising boom. Prime Image, a Silicon Valley technology company, introduced it after its device for television stations -- the Time Machine, which compresses audio and visual signals to make more time for commercials on live programming -- caught the eye of a radio station owner in Philadelphia.
The notion of time compression began to take hold in television about a decade ago, and has been used to moderately shrink syndicated programming like talk and game shows. But the time-compression equipment was not aggressively marketed as devices to create extra time for commercials until about three years ago.
The promotional literature for the Time Machine, for example, reads in part: "Use the Time Machine to add commercials to your program schedule and profits to your bottom line." Bill Hendershot, the president of Prime Image, said that more than 250 television stations -- affiliates from NBC, CBS, ABC, and Fox; several owned and operated stations, and a handful of cable networks -- own the Time Machine. The Inspirational Network in Charlotte, N.C., has used it to speed up sermons and religious programming.
Use of time-compression devices on television generally create less time for extra advertising, so the impact on the bottom line is proportionally less than for radio. Because television viewers and executives are much more sensitive to commercial clutter, the quantity of commercials on television has not reached the numbers of those on radio.
To squeeze in those vast numbers of commercials, Cash works on live radio by digitally recording the entire broadcast. It begins by recording the first couple of minutes of live radio -- depending on how many commercials the manager wants to insert -- then replays it, condensing the silent parts throughout the rest of the broadcast. It is used primarily by local radio stations that apply it to syndicated programs.
For example, one day last month, WWDB-FM in Philadelphia, which broadcasts Mr. Limbaugh's national program every day at noon, sought to gain almost three extra commercial minutes in one hour. The engineer inserted a one-minute commercial block at noon, and Cash silently recorded Mr. Limbaugh during that minute. At 12:01 p.m., the program began to play Mr. Limbaugh's now not-exactly-live broadcast; during the next 21 minutes, the digital program eliminated pockets of silence between Mr. Limbaugh's words and also removed what is known as "redundant" data from within words -- for example, shortening a long syllable. The station gradually earned back the one minute lost at the top of the broadcast.
The impact of Cash is minimized by Phil Boyce, the program director of New York's WABC-AM who experimented with Cash on Mr. Limbaugh's show in November -- until Mr. Limbaugh complained about it during a broadcast, a contretemps reported in The New York Post.
Mr. Boyce said that he had not yet decided if he would continue to use Cash. "Yes, you can shoehorn more commercials in," Mr. Boyce said. "But it really wouldn't be noticeable with the naked ear unless some station was using it to its maximum capacity by removing five or six minutes an hour."
But that is already happening. Dennis Begley, the general manager of WWDB-FM, has squeezed as many as six extra commercial minutes from an hour of Mr. Limbaugh's program, prompting complaints from listeners. But, he said, the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. "When I first heard about this thing, I knew we had to get it," he said, "because I knew the money-making potential was ridiculous."
But because listeners complained, he said, these days he aims to squeeze no more than four minutes an hour.
Mr. Boyce of WABC, the only New York station to experiment with Cash, said that the station used Cash because there was an unprecedented demand for commercial inventory.
"When you're in a sold-out situation, you look for any way possible to manage more advertising," Mr. Boyce said. Because of sensitivity to listeners and Mr. Limbaugh, WABC has suspended its use of Cash for the time being.
And that feast for radio stations has turned out to be a famine of sorts for advertisers, who are becoming sensitive to the quantity of commercials on radio. Jackie Davenport, a vice president and broadcast supervisor at Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide, an advertising agency in New York, said that the problem of clutter was much more apparent in radio than in television. Unlike television, where they closely watch how many minutes they will devote to commercial time, "radio will just add more minutes when the demand increases," she said. "The clutter has gotten out of control."
Ms. Davenport said advertisers had become wary of getting lost in a long commercial block, so that not only price but placement had become part of the negotiating process.
The compression technology has certainly given radio purists pause -- or maybe a lack thereof. Michael Harrison, the editor in chief of Talkers, a weekly magazine that chronicles the talk-radio industry, said that compression reflects trends in both radio and in the commercial-polluted American culture at large.
"It's a syndrome of our times," Mr. Harrison said. "We have no patience for anything that might seem superfluous. We're at a time when we're so caught up in speed and greed that we have no qualms about bastardizing artistic integrity."
Kraig T. Kitchin, the president and chief operating officer of Premiere Radio Networks, the subsidiary of Clear Channel that distributes "The Rush Limbaugh Show," said he had studied Cash to see if its speed had any adverse affects on Mr. Limbaugh's ratings and found that it did not. He called Cash's innovation inevitable.
"In life, everything moves faster now," Mr. Kitchin said. "You get more e-mails and voice mails than you can keep up with. But you still have the same number of hours in the day."
Even Mr. Limbaugh's complaints are not all tied to purist motives. Mr. Limbaugh, who receives a percentage of the advertising revenue raised during his program, said he was concerned about advertisers' perception of Cash.
"Nobody is going to listen to a radio program where 30 of every 60 minutes is advertising," Mr. Limbaugh said. "And no advertiser wants to be sandwiched in between six other commercials. But of course, to the technology nerds, this is a fascinating device."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thanks to a new device, radio stations can wedge in more minutes of commercials by truncating sounds and pauses in talk programs.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: RADIO ADVERTISING BUREAU (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: RADIO ADVERTISING BUREAU (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (63%); 

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



152 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: In Death of Abandoned Newborn, Echoes of an Earlier Case

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J., Jan. 5

 BODY:
It is only 10 miles from the nearby town of Wyckoff to the railroad tracks here where passers-by on Saturday found an unclothed newborn baby amid the detritus of a poor urban neighborhood: an empty bottle of Laird's gin, old discarded tennis shoes, a cracked toilet tank, a rusted tire rim.
But when the abandoned baby died in a local hospital on Saturday and his 14-year-old mother was charged with murder, an unlikely link was forged between the forlorn railroad yard and the upscale community to which Brian C. Peterson returned yesterday, after spending a year and a half in jail for his part in the death of his newborn baby when he was 18 years old. 
 On Tuesday the girl here, whose name has not been made public, pleaded not guilty to charges of murder and endangering the welfare of a minor. Judge Nestor F. Guzman of the family division of State Superior Court ordered her held for two days in the county juvenile detention center until a probable cause hearing on Thursday.
Prosecutors say they are considering asking Judge Guzman to charge the girl as an adult.
But along with their sorrow over the tragedy here, many residents found telling differences in the attention given to the two cases and the way they are being handled by the legal system.
Mr. Peterson was released yesterday after serving 18 months in prison for the widely publicized death of his baby in 1996. Prosecutors said that after Amy S. Grossberg, who was then his girlfriend, gave birth in a motel in Delaware, Mr. Peterson placed his newborn son in a plastic garbage bag and threw the bag into a Dumpster.
He returned yesterday to his neighborhood of sprawling lawns and three-car garages and said he was sorry for his role in the baby's death.
He and Ms. Grossberg pleaded guilty to manslaughter charges for their part in the death. Ms. Grossberg is to be released this summer.
Many here thought their penalties were light for the death of a baby and a stark contrast with the murder charges against the girl here.
"They had money, that's why they got away with it," said Rodney Green, a 28-year-old neighborhood resident.
The chief assistant prosecutor for Passaic County, William Purdy, said on Tuesday that a preliminary autopsy showed that the baby died of multiple blunt-force injuries and hypothermia. The baby's liver was severed, it had lacerations on its lungs and it suffered facial bone fractures, he said.
"I'm not going to speculate as to how the baby got those injuries," Mr. Purdy said. "That is still under investigation."
Investigators identified the father as a boy about the same age as the mother, but said they planned to file no criminal charges against him. They are still, however, investigating whether the girl had help in discarding the baby.
The girl lived with her mother and father and two siblings in a second-floor apartment in a white three-story house that abuts the railroad track, next door to the Express Tire Center and cater-corner to a market. There are Barbie stickers on windows of the first story. Only a rickety chain-link fence separates the girl's backyard from the tracks.
People in the neighborhood talked sadly about the abandoned baby, and wondered how it was that parents could not know what was happening to their own child living under the same roof.
"She acted like a kid because she was a kid herself," said Quasheema Miller, who is 34 and recalled seeing the small girl taking a younger sister to school every day.
The girl's lawyer, Frank J. Sciro of Paterson, said the parents want the daughter tried as a juvenile.
"She's 14 years old," Mr. Sciro said. "She had absolutely no history of trouble with the law. She's a B student at the Passaic County Technical and Vocational High School. Her parents are good, hard-working people. This incident is obviously completely out of character for this girl."
He also mentioned the case of Ms. Grossberg and Mr. Peterson.
"The community has told me loud and clear -- in calls from the clergy and City Council members -- that they want this girl treated the same as the children from Bergen County," he said.
Bob Grant, a spokesman for the Paterson mayor's office, said today that the message of the two cases was that family tragedies play out in both poor and rich communities.
"The juxtaposition of these two cases shows that it goes all across the economic and geographic lines," Mr. Grant said. "We need to make sure that our children aren't lost, whether they're from upper-echelon neighborhoods like Columbine, Colo., or from less economically advantaged areas."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey highlighting Paterson: An infant was found abandoned along railroad tracks in Paterson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); MURDER (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INFANT MORTALITY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); FAMILY (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); MANSLAUGHTER (76%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (76%); AUTOPSIES (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PROBABLE CAUSE (73%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); COLD INJURIES (60%); FACIAL INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: BRIAN C PETERSON (78%); AMY S GROSSBERG (73%); FRANK J SCIRO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



153 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Capitol Hill Memo;
Dueling Agendas Herald Fight for Control of Congress

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
The battle for control of Congress officially began today.
At opposite ends of Pennsylvania Avenue -- on Capitol Hill and at the White House -- Democrats and Republicans sketched competing legislative visions that will dominate the Congressional calendar and campaigns this election year. 
 Two dozen House Republicans commemorated the fifth anniversary of taking control of Congress by releasing a glossy brochure heralding what they said were their accomplishments, among them a balanced budget, welfare reform and a stronger military.
What they did not say was just as striking. Republicans mentioned the Contract With America only once in an hourlong news conference. A two-and-one-half-minute video shown to reporters featured smiling children and even the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, but not Newt Gingrich. The former speaker led Republicans out of their 40 years in the political wilderness as the minority party, but his scorched-earth tactics led to surprising losses in the 1998 elections, and his messy divorce has deeply embarrassed many former acolytes.
"It's like Moses has been airbrushed out of the Bible," said Marshall Wittmann, director of Congressional relations at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative advocacy group.
At a White House news conference, President Clinton and the Democratic leaders, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, took their share of the credit for the nation's booming economy, soaring surpluses and lowest unemployment figures in 30 years -- no doubt recurring themes this election season.
The three leaders emerged from a private meeting to announce what they described as a united agenda that would include school reconstruction money, targeted tax cuts, reforms in Medicare and Social Security, a patients' bill of rights, an increase in the minimum wage and hate crimes legislation.
Mr. Clinton announced an expanded effort to rebuild the nation's deteriorating school buildings. He said he would reintroduce a $3.7 billion federal tax relief program to help local school districts float construction bonds backed by the federal government. The initiative was blocked by Congressional Republicans in recent years.
Election years are notorious for producing little legislation of significance, and it is unclear whether this year will be any different.
The best hope may be for compromises on a minimum wage increase and a patients' bill of rights. After that, the prospects dim considerably for any meaningful effort to deal with Social Security, Medicare or gun control, because both sides are likely to be more concerned about using those issues to draw the lines in the election debate.
Under another theory, Mr. Clinton and Congressional Republicans could set aside their mutual animosity to hammer out some legislative accomplishments. For opposite reasons, of course. Mr. Clinton wants to burnish his legacy, while Republicans are eager to produce enough accomplishments to earn voters' support in November.
But many Democratic and Republican strategists discount that theory as counter to Mr. Clinton's chief goal of keeping a Democrat in the White House, preferably Vice President Al Gore, and regaining control of the House and maybe even the Senate. Democrats relish the chance to run against a "do-nothing" Congress.
Even the backdrop of today's dueling political events caught the mood of the respective camps and foreshadowed what is likely to be a running Washington melodrama this year.
House Republicans held their news conference in a dowdy third-floor room at the Capitol Hill Club, a Republican redoubt. After the event, Republicans began a two-day retreat to discuss their legislative agenda. Sixty-three lawmakers, less than one-third of the conference, volunteered to fly in during the recess to attend. Congress officially returns to work on Jan. 24.
Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gephardt and Mr. Daschle spoke to reporters at the White House with the Congressional math giving Democrats reason for hope. House Republicans outnumber Democrats, 222 to 212, with one independent usually voting with the Democrats, leaving them within a net change of five seats of reclaiming the House. At present, Republicans have 21 open seats to defend; Democrats only 6. In the Senate, Democrats face a much tougher challenge, with Republicans outnumbering them 55 to 45.
So the focus is clearly on the House. Despite repeated assurances today from Representative J. C. Watts Jr., an Oklahoma Republican who organized this week's events, that Republicans would go on the offensive, the prevailing mood among many rank-and-file Republicans seems to be simply to hang on to power.
Representative Jennifer Dunn, a Washington Republican who served two years in the minority before 1994, told reporters today, "We don't ever want that to happen again."
Indeed, the Republicans' revolutionary days of 1995 and the Contract With America, tempered by the government shutdowns and losses at the ballot box, have given way to cold-eyed pragmatism and political survival.
When asked today for the House Republican legislative priorities, Mr. Watts ticked off a tax cut, the size of which would not be determined for two or three more weeks, and vague pledges to remove more American soldiers from food stamp rolls by increasing their pay and to return more control of education to local officials. An important refrain today in the brochure and the news conference was something they would not do: dip into the Social Security surplus.
In the end, Congressional Republicans seem likely to follow the lead of their presidential nominee, even if it means adjusting their own priorities. Gov. George W. Bush, the party's front-runner in national polls, has distanced himself from House Republicans, some of whom have come across as partisan ideologues.
"Our agenda ought to reflect the fundamental platform of our most likely presidential nominee," said Representative John R. Kasich, an Ohio Republican who backs Mr. Bush. "To muddle a message or not do much would be a mistake."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle, left, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt with President Clinton after a White House news conference yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

COMPANY: OKLAHOMA REPUBLICAN (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); GUN CONTROL (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); SCHOOL BONDS (68%); MEDICARE (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); TAX RELIEF (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%); CRIMINAL LAW (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



154 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Budget to Cut 1,000 Positions

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Jan. 5

 BODY:
Budget Group Inc., the No. 3 car-rental company, said that it planned to cut 1,000 jobs, get out of the car-sales business and take a fourth-quarter charge of as much as $65 million as it cuts operating costs by $100 million a year.
Budget, which is the second-largest truck-rental company, said it would cut about 1,000 jobs as it combined offices of its truck unit, Ryder TRS Inc., into its North American vehicle rental division. 
 The company said fourth-quarter results would be in line with the average analyst estimate, a loss of 45 cents a share based on a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial.
Budget, based in Daytona Beach, set up a joint venture to get out of the car retail business. It has transferred seven sites into the venture, sold three others and closed one more.
It planned to sell its a van-leasing business and its Cruise America recreational-vehicle sales and rental unit and said it had received some inquiries about the divisions.
The company also said it had reached an agreement with the Ford Motor Company under which Ford would remain the main source of rental vehicles. It declined to disclose the terms of the agreement. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (93%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: BUDGET GROUP INC (BD) BUDGET GROUP INC (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUDGET GROUP INC (BD)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES LAYOFFS (90%); TRUCK & TRAILER RENTAL & LEASING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RETAILERS (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); LEASING INDUSTRY (68%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



155 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Factories Rebounded In November

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
New orders to American factories for manufactured goods rose 1.2 percent in November, the first increase since August, as companies producing electronic products enjoyed a surge in demand.
The Commerce Department said today that the November increase in factory orders followed no gain in October and a 1 percent decline in September. Orders had risen 1.3 percent in August. 
 The rebound in manufacturing was the latest evidence that the United States economy was still growing at a robust rate as the year ended.
Investors have grown increasingly worried that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates again at its meeting in early February. The Fed raised rates three times last year.
President Clinton said on Tuesday that he would nominate Alan Greenspan for a fourth four-year term as chairman of the Fed. While Wall Street holds Mr. Greenspan in high regard, Mr. Clinton's announcement did not overcome investors' jitters about future rate increases.
The government said that November factory orders rose $4.5 billion, pushing the total for the month to a seasonally adjusted $365.2 billion.
Much of the strength came from a $3 billion rise in orders placed with makers of electronic equipment, reflecting strong demand for components, including semiconductors.
The 8.4 percent advance for electronic manufacturers was the fifth increase in the last six months and the biggest since July 1998.
Orders for fabricated metals, like steel, rose by 2.6 percent, to $20.6 billion. The sector is struggling to recover from a flood of cheap imported steel that forced the layoff of thousands of United States steelworkers and led the industry to successfully petition for penalty tariffs to stem the tide of foreign imports.
Orders for cars, airplanes and other transportation equipment fell by 3.5 percent in November to $45.1 billion, largely reflecting a drop in demand for aircraft and parts.
Excluding the volatile transportation category, orders would have been up by 1.9 percent in November, the biggest advance since a 2.6 percent rise in July.
Orders for durable goods -- items expected to last three or more years -- rose by nine-tenths of 1 percent in November. This represented a downward revision from an advance report two weeks ago that estimated durable-goods orders had risen 1.2 percent in November.
Orders for nondurable goods were up 1.6 percent in November following a 1.1 percent October increase.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "Factory Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, since June 1998.
(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); INTEREST RATES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



156 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Car and Truck Sales in 1999 Set U.S. Record

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Automakers sold 16.89 million cars and trucks in the United States last year, exceeding a record established in 1986 by more than 800,000 vehicles, according to sales results released today. The strong sales, up 5.2 percent from the previous record 13 years earlier, helped many automakers earn what are expected to be record profits.
Despite increased sales, however, both Ford and DaimlerChrysler lost market share over the course of the year. General Motors eked out a small gain over its results in the previous year, which had been plagued by a long strike, but failed to meet its own target for market share, finishing 1999 with less than 30 percent for the auto market for the first time since the 1920's. 
 The big gainers were European-based automakers, led by Volkswagen, and South Korean companies selling relatively inexpensive cars, mostly to people who previously drove used cars.
Purchasers spent freely in all ranges of the market, encouraged by the long-running economic prosperity.
"It was an extraordinary year," said Diane C. Swonk, chief economist at the Bank One Corporation. "As good as it was, it still was one of the most brutally competitive markets."
Auto stocks were mixed in trading today. G.M. closed unchanged at $71.625. Ford edged up 18.75 cents, to $50.8125, and DaimlerChrysler gained 62.5 cents, to $74.875.
Industry executives and economists predicted robust sales again this year. "A strong economy, confident consumers and innovative products were the major factors driving our record-breaking sales and earnings in 1999," said Robert Rewey, a Ford group vice president. "The good news is these factors are alive and well as we kick off 2000."
General Motors said today that its December sales rose 6.2 percent, with car sales down 7.2 percent and the sales of pickup trucks, minivans and sport utility vehicles up 21.5 percent.
"We've worked very hard to profitably improve our mix this year," said Roy S. Roberts, G.M.'s group vice president for North American vehicle sales, service and marketing. Last year, high-profit trucks made up 49.3 percent of G.M.'s sales, an increase from 46.7 percent in 1998. "We said we'd improve mix, we did, and we will continue to improve our mix in this highly competitive marketplace," Mr. Roberts said.
For the year, G.M.'s car sales rose 5.5 percent, its truck sales increased 12.8 percent and its overall sales rose 8.9 percent. That was enough to nudge its market share to 29.45 percent, just above the 29.4 percent share for 1998, when a strike shut down the company for two months. But last year's 29.45 percent market share was well below the 31.29 percent in 1997.
G.M. also predicted that industrywide sales this year would be strong, even though the company does not expect to match 1999's level.
Ford said its December sales rose 3.2 percent, with cars 17.6 percent higher and sales of pickup trucks, minivans and sport utility vehicles down 5.3 percent. That rounded out a year in which Ford's car sales rose 9.4 percent and its truck sales rose 4 percent, for an overall gain of 6.1 percent.
Because the auto market was so strong, Ford's increase was not sufficient to keep pace with industry sales, which rose 8.7 percent over all. Total car sales for the industry were up 6.9 percent and truck sales up 10.7 percent. As a result, Ford's market share fell to 24.4 percent for the year from 25.5 percent in 1998.
DaimlerChrysler also saw its market share drop, to 16.75 percent last year from 17.25 percent in 1998. Sales rose 2 percent in December.
The decreasing market shares have led automakers to scrape for customers by offering rebates, discount loans and cheap leases, which in turn have helped keep sales high. On Tuesday, G.M. said it would offer discounts on almost all its cars and trucks, and DaimlerChrysler said it might accept the coupons on its vehicles. Ford was still considering its options today.
Analysts said that G.M.'s move amounted to the first shot across the bow in a price war. "Clearly, the big competitors are going to respond to G.M.'s action, and G.M. will respond to that action," said John A. Casesa of Merrill Lynch, adding, "We could see some pretty heavy incentives by the spring selling season."
Today's figures also showed that the Toyota Camry was again the most popular car in the United States last year, with sales of 448,162. The Honda Accord was not far behind, with sales of 404,192, and the Ford Taurus was third, with 368,327. Outselling them all by a big margin were a couple of pickup trucks: the Ford F-series pickups, with sales of 869,001, and the Chevrolet Silverado, with 636,150.
South Korean automakers gained customers in 1999. Daewoo won two-tenths of 1 percent of the United States market in its first year selling cars here. Hyundai saw its share rise to 0.97 percent last year from 0.58 percent in 1998, and the share for Kia rose to eight-tenths of 1 percent from 0.53 percent. Volkswagen, the biggest European gainer, saw its market share rise to 2.26 percent last year from 1.72 percent in 1998. BMW rose to 1.09 percent of the market from 0.98 percent.
Some other large automakers struggled with market share. Toyota declined to 8.73 percent from 8.76 percent last year, and Honda's share fell to 6.38 percent from 6.5 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in December"
Chart lists statistics for vehicle sales in the United States for the month of December.
(Source: Ward's Auto Bank)(pg. C11)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (68%); JPM (LSE) (68%); 8634 (TSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



157 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Reverse Deep Slide But Still End the Day Mixed
Stock prices halted their early-year slide but finished mixed. The Nasdaq composite index fell nearly 167 points in early trading, then jumped into positive territory, but ended the day down 24.15 points, to 3,877.54. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average held on to much of its gain and ended up 124.72 points, or 1.13 percent, to 11,122.65, recovering about one-quarter of its steep decline in the first two days of the year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.69 points, or 0.19 percent, to 1,402.11. The yield on the 30-year Treasury climbed to 6.62 percent. Page C10.
 
Stock markets across much of Asia plummeted, abruptly, ending a post-millennium rally, as investors reacted with alarm to Wall Street's stumble on Tuesday. C4.
 
'Tokyo Joe' Accused of Fraud
The Securities and Exchange Commission accused one of the Internet's best-known stockpickers, Yun Soo Oh Park -- known as Tokyo Joe -- of securities fraud, contending that he enriched himself at his customers' expense, lied about his past returns and secretly accepted payment in exchange for recommending one company's stock. A1.
 
Jobs to Remain as Chief at Apple
Ending more than two years of public indecision, the co-founder of Apple Computer, Steven P. Jobs, announced that he was dropping the "interim" from "interim chief executive," the title under which he has led the company back into prosperity over the last two and a half years. Mr. Jobs made the announcement at the Macworld exhibition in San Francisco while outlining Apple's new Internet initiative, which will include a $200 million investment in Earthlink Network, the nation's second-largest Internet service provider. C2.
 
With a Nip and a Tuck: More Ad Time
With little fanfare, a digital program has established a foothold in the radio industry, allowing stations to remove the silent pockets between words, shorten pauses and otherwise quicken talk programs so that they can wedge in more commercials. Advertising. A1.
 
Analyst Drops Recession Forecast
Edward Yardeni, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities, who had predicted that Year 2000 computer problems would cause a recession this year by disrupting global supply chains, collapsing earnings expectations for thousands of companies and popping the stock market bubble, has abandoned that forecast now that the new year has arrived without notable computer flaws. C2.
 
Book Executive Decides to Join AOL
Michael Lynton, the executive who traded Hollywood movies for book publishing in New York at the Penguin Putnam Group, shifted industries again to become president of the international division of America Online. C7.
 
Mannesmann Steps Up Its Defense
Mannesmann of Germany escalated a verbal assault on an unwanted British suitor, Vodafone AirTouch, asserting that a combination of the two big mobile telephone companies would lead to enormous financial losses. Klaus Esser, the chief executive of Mannesmann, led the latest public relations effort against the proposal. He said he expected Vodafone would have to pay as much as $62 billion in addition to its $127.7 billion all-stock offer to buy any outstanding shares from investors who had not sold their shares after the bid period expires in early February. C4.
 
NBC Agrees to Jobs for Minorities
Acknowledging that talented minorities had most likely been denied opportunities in writing, producing and directing, Robert Wright, president of NBC, announced an agreement with a coalition led by the N.A.A.C.P. intended to generate jobs for them both at the network and on shows it broadcasts. A16.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,122.65 up 124.72
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.62% up 0.08
The euro -- $1.032 up 0.002
The dollar -- 104.35 yen up 1.07
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows New-Home Sales
November figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern.
Expected: -5.7
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Apple Computer shares since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); VOD (NASDAQ) (50%); VOD (LSE) (50%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (51%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (50%); PENGUIN GROUP (USA) INC (50%); AOL INC (50%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (66%); BOOK PUBLISHING (62%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (62%); FILM (50%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



158 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: More Focus on Education While Still Cutting Taxes

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki has largely anchored his reputation on a trinity of issues -- tax cuts, crime and welfare -- but in his annual speech to the Legislature today, he made clear that he wanted to be known as more than a fiscal puritan with a penchant for law and order.
By unexpectedly focusing on education, Mr. Pataki indicated that he considered improving the schools in New York unfinished business. Five years after taking office, he seemed to be acknowledging that while the public might be pleased with his overall performance, he could suffer politically if he did not address disenchantment with the education system, particularly in urban areas. 
 He first hinted at this shift soon after winning his second term in 1998, when he pushed a proposal to create charter schools through a reluctant Legislature. He followed up last year by setting up a special commission to investigate corruption in the New York City schools. And today, he capped those moves by laying out an education agenda that featured a program to provide free tuition to college students who agree to teach in the public schools.
"A new era for New York must begin with a renewed commitment to our children's education," he said.
While there is no shortage of news to spur Mr. Pataki to demand change -- from turmoil in governing New York City schools to disappointing scores statewide -- he also cannot help but notice the success of Republican governors like George W. Bush of Texas in broadening their images by championing higher standards and other education measures.
In his speech, Mr. Pataki did not exactly shove aside the mainstay issues of his first term, but he gave them less emphasis. Well into his text, he announced an unremarkable proposal for business tax cuts, many aimed at revitalizing the beleaguered upstate economy. Still later, he repeated his longstanding proposal for ending the parole system.
Besides education, another issue featured prominently in the speech was health care, an area that also suggests a shift in Mr. Pataki's stewardship. Last month, the governor and the Legislature nearly doubled the cigarette tax to pay for a significant expansion for health care for the uninsured, the first major tax increase of his tenure. The move angered some conservatives, who questioned Mr. Pataki's devotion to their tightfisted fiscal principles.
Education and health care to some extent symbolize a new style, but it would be wrong to characterize Mr. Pataki as a onetime conservative firebrand. Aware that he is a Republican in a mostly Democratic state, the governor has not neglected policies that appeal to moderates, especially on abortion rights, which he supports, and the environment.
And though he did not promote a clarion-call educational agenda in his first term, he did sign off on record increases in state education aid sought by the Legislature.
The speech today was striking because Mr. Pataki had been expected to pursue such a change in the course in his annual address last year, the first of his second term. He instead clung last year to the priorities of his first term, reeling off a list of accomplishments and essentially calling for more of the same.
Oddly enough, some lawmakers had predicted that Mr. Pataki would swing to the right today -- repeating something akin to last year's speech -- because he would feel wounded by criticism of the cigarette tax increase. He has been mentioned as a possible vice presidential candidate and so it would seem natural that he might want to reassert his conservative credentials.
He did not, however, and his tone today indicated that he believed that he had put the state's house in order on matters like the budget and welfare, and could now focus on education, which is arguably a more nettlesome issue because localities exert so much control over the schools.
"All of his priorities from the past four years are still in place, but there is no question that he is targeting education," said State Senator Thomas W. Libous, a Binghamton Republican. Herman Badillo, whom Mr. Pataki appointed as chairman of the City University of New York, said the tuition program harked back to when CUNY tuition was free.
"It's a new tone and a new focus," Mr. Badillo said. "The fact that he put it at the top of his agenda is an indication that he is very much aware of giving a real priority to education. The idea of having free tuition -- it's very dramatic. I mean, that's really moving to the left."
Tellingly, Mr. Pataki did not announce an initiative for educational vouchers, favored by conservative Republicans but anathema to many Democrats. As a result, Democratic lawmakers expressed grudging support for the proposals in the speech, while also trying to portray Mr. Pataki as having stolen their agenda.
"Everybody's polls show that the public cares very much about education," said State Senator Martin Connor of Brooklyn. "It's the No. 1 issue. And it's clear that the governor and the Republicans are trying to appease that public desire by addressing it. But it raises the question of credibility. Where have they been the past four years?"
Assemblyman Steven Sanders, a Manhattan Democrat who is chairman of the Education Committee, said he was skeptical. "We have to remember that this comes from a governor who vetoed just a year ago teacher mentor intern programs out of existence, opposed teacher support aid, opposed teacher centers," he said. "But if his proposal represents a sincere conversion in the need to have better trained and prepared teachers, I welcome that." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PAROLE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); TUITION FEES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (61%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (54%); ABORTION (50%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



159 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: PATAKI PROPOSES ADDING INCENTIVES FOR NEW TEACHERS

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki proposed a series of initiatives today intended to strengthen the state's educational system, including tuition subsidies for college students who pledge to teach in public schools and other plans to improve those schools that he said too often fail to live up to expectations.
In his sixth annual address to the Legislature, Mr. Pataki also listed several environmental proposals, including creation of a research institute to study the ecology of the Hudson River as well as an expansion of the state's main program for cleaning up toxic waste sites to include less dangerously polluted properties. 
 From education to the environment to health care, Mr. Pataki's stated goals signaled a shift in his priorities, especially since he had devoted much of his first term to pursuing a brand of fiscal conservatism that focused on halting what he contended were years of excessive spending in Albany. Although he committed no new major state spending for his proposals, the new direction seemed an effort to dispel the notion that he was inflexible about social programs.
Mr. Pataki, who in 1995 became the state's first Republican governor in 20 years, renewed his call for several measures that he had failed to push through the Legislature in previous years, including an end to parole for all violent felons, tougher penalties for people convicted of sex crimes and giving teachers the right to expel disruptive students from their classrooms. He also proposed a set of new tax cuts, many of them intended to revive the state's economically struggling upstate region and some of its urban centers under a Main Streets program.
Toward the beginning of his hourlong speech, the governor took a few humorous jabs, one at his former lieutenant governor, Betsy McCaughey Ross, and another at Hillary Rodham Clinton's quest for a United States Senate seat.
He reminisced about his first annual address, saying it "seems like just yesterday that I stood, or that Betsy and I stood up here" -- eliciting laughter from lawmakers and aides over the gaffe by Ms. McCaughey Ross when she stood through his entire speech.
"Now, we've succeeded to such an amazing extent that people from all around the country are recognizing that New York is the place to be," he continued. "Why, even people from Hope, Ark., understand that New York is the best state to live in."
He also used the latter part of his address to dwell on some of the accomplishments of his first term: reducing taxes, eliminating government regulation, cutting the welfare rolls to their lowest levels ever and fighting crime. The governor told lawmakers that those policies had helped turn the state around, and he urged them to work with him to do more of the same as the state entered the 2000's.
But it was Mr. Pataki's focus on education that drew the most sustained applause and the loudest cheers from Democrats and Republicans alike in the State Capitol's ornate Assembly chamber. The response suggested that all sides sense that education is a primary concern of voters in a year when members of both houses prepare for their re-election campaigns.
"A new New York must begin with a renewed commitment to our children's education," Mr. Pataki said from the dais, where he was flanked by most of the top elected officials in the state, including the leaders of both the State Senate and State Assembly, as well as Lt. Gov. Mary O. Donohue, Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer and Comptroller H. Carl McCall.
"We have a long history of educational excellence to be proud of," he continued. "But today, although many of our schools still excel, some students are forced to settle for less. Too many of our children are victims of the most insidious enemy of excellence: low expectation. We must refocus their sights, and ours, on academic excellence."
The centerpiece of Mr. Pataki's education initiative is his proposal to cover the tuition costs for any student attending a public college in New York, provided he or she agrees to teach for four years in public schools that are facing a shortage of teachers. The program would provide students a scholarship of up to $3,400 a year, and would also let them use the money at any private university or college.
The Pataki administration estimates that the proposal would cost the state about $25 million a year, and would help it attract as many as 50,000 new teachers into the public school system over the next 10 years.
The proposal comes at a time when New York City faces its worst teacher shortage ever: during the next five years, the city's public school system will lose more than half of its 78,000 teachers as an unusually high number of them, 54,000, reach age 55 and become eligible for retirement. The looming exodus is threatening to drain the school system of many of its most experienced teachers.
"We need to attract the best teachers of tomorrow to work in our neediest schools," the governor said. "Each year, thousands of new graduates are produced by New York's fine colleges. But many don't go into teaching, and often our most disadvantaged schools don't get the benefit of the best new teachers. We can change that."
The speech drew effusive praise from Mr. Pataki's fellow Republicans, who frequently broke into applause as he spoke. "It truly had something in it that would benefit every New Yorker -- man, woman, child -- and every aspect of life," said Joseph L. Bruno, an upstate Republican who is the majority leader of the State Senate. "It truly builds on the success of the last five years."
Democratic lawmakers also expressed support for the speech, while leveling a few barbs at Mr. Pataki, saying he was supporting the new proposals because his early education policies had proved to be unpopular among New York's largely moderate electorate.
"The governor has moved from the radical right wing to espouse many of the principles that we have been talking about for the last four years," said Sheldon Silver of Manhattan, a Democrat and the speaker of the State Assembly. "I think we have proved that the people respond to the issues that he talked about, issues of education, of health care, of higher education and of job creation and getting New York State into the national economic expansion. I think the governor has finally heard the message and he is responding."
Mr. Pataki also proposed an initiative intended to encourage college students to perform volunteer work in the state's struggling inner-city schools, like tutoring children enrolled in summer programs. In return, the college students would earn college credits.
The governor also proposed creating a tuition assistance program to help the state's 9,000 uncertified teachers cover the cost of college courses they must complete before being eligible to be fully licensed as a teacher in New York. And he proposed that they be allowed five years, instead of two, to get a master's degree for completing certification requirements. There was no cost estimate for the governor's proposals to relax those requirements.
The governor's plan would also let professionals from other fields teach without having to meet the educational requirements a person must now fulfill to become a licensed teacher in the state.
"Right now, Colin Powell can't teach in the New York schools that he grew up in," the governor said. "Billy Joel is not qualified to teach piano to kids on Long Island. Eileen Collins can pilot the space shuttle, but she can't teach science in Elmira, her hometown. More importantly, thousands of less famous New Yorkers -- engineers, chemists, journalists -- could be great teachers as well. Let's open the teacher qualification process so that people with valuable life experiences can share them with our children."
The proposal received tempered support from the powerful teachers union, a group with considerable influence in both the Republican-controlled Senate and the Democratic-led Assembly. Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said she was pleasantly surprised at the governor's proposal to provide scholarships to students who agree to teach after graduating, as well as his plan to provide financial assistance to unlicensed teachers who need to go back to school.
Ms. Weingarten said that the union itself had proposed a similar plan in the past, and welcomed the governor's support.
But she was wary of his proposal to establish alternative certification standards for obtaining a teaching license in New York, saying she needed to review the specifics.
"We have to see the details," she said. "If what he is talking about is getting the Colin Powells and Billy Joels into the classroom, that is unrealistic." She added: "You need to know your content, but pedagogy is also critical. Knowing how to teach kids is an art. The Colin Powells and Billy Joels and Warren Buffetts -- these folks are not going to fill 54,000 positions."
Besides education, another issue that Mr. Pataki's speech emphasized was health care, an area that Democrats have long accused him of neglecting. He highlighted a new program that he and legislative leaders from both parties created recently to provide medical coverage to as many as one million uninsured New Yorkers.
Mr. Pataki also pledged to cut cigarette smoking among teenagers by 50 percent over the next five years. His aides said he expected to achieve those reductions through a variety of antismoking initiatives, as well as a 56-cent tax that he recently agreed to add to the price of cigarettes in New York. The move raised the cigarette tax in New York to $1.11, the highest in any state. A pack of major-brand cigarettes in Albany now costs about $3.50.
It was the first time that Mr. Pataki had championed a major tax increase since taking office in 1995 on an aggressive tax-cutting platform. His aides reason that his tax-cutting reputation combined with the public's growing opposition to smoking gave him the political cover he need to support increasing the tax on cigarettes.
The governor also proposed $700 million in new tax cuts, most of them devoted to eliminating what is called the gross receipts tax, which adds several dollars a month to a typical New Yorker's gas and electric bills. Large manufacturers say it adds tens of thousands of dollars to the cost of business in New York.
Mr. Pataki also proposed giving tax credits to businesses in cities upstate. The program would provide a tax credit of up to $1,000 per job for employers who either open new companies or expand their existing business in the state, provided they employ at least 25 people.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki was greeted before delivering a talk to the Legislature yesterday that focused on the educational system, including a proposal to provide aid to students who pledge to teach in public schools. (Gary Gold for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: The Governor's Agenda"
 
Following are major proposals from Gov. George E. Pataki's annual address to the Legislature:
 
TEACHER SCHOLARSHIPS -- Would provide up to $3,400 per year to 5,000 new teachers who work in designated areas where there is a shortage of certified teachers. Additional money would be made available to help teachers with temporary licenses get permanent certification.
 
TAX CUTS -- Would provide $700 million in new tax cuts and economic development initiatives for a total of $2.3 billion in tax cuts for the fiscal year 2000-2001.
 
ENERGY TAX ELIMINATION -- Would phase out a tax on energy that raises about $500 million annually from residential and business consumers. The tax would be eliminated first for industrial and manufacturing businesses to enable them to compete with businesses in regions with lower energy costs.
 
LOW-COST POWER -- Would expand a program that provides low-cost power to businesses across upstate New York in exchange for their creating and keeping jobs in the region. The program would provide an estimated $20 million in savings to businesses.
 
ENTERPRISE ZONE -- Would create a high-technology enterprise zone in upstate counties where employment growth is below the state average. Technology companies that relocate or expand there would be eligible for a package of incentives that would include tax credits.
(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); PAROLE (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); SEX OFFENSES (65%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); FELONIES (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



160 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Comments by Gore and Bradley at Forum for Candidates

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Democratic presidential debate last night in Durham, N.H., involving Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, as recorded by The New York Times:
 
Q. Mr. Bradley, has Mr. Gore ever taken a vote of yours or a quote out of context?
MR. BRADLEY A vote or a quote? Yes.
Q. Mr. Gore, has Mr. Bradley ever taken a vote or a quote out of yours, out of context?
MR. GORE I haven't complained about any.
Q. The question was has he. . . .
MR. GORE I don't know that the answer is no, but if you want a no, I'll give you a no.
Q. O.K. Well then Mr. Bradley, being that you think Mr. Gore has taken a vote or a quote out of context, choose one that you think was particularly offensive. 

MR. BRADLEY The one that was most particularly offensive to me was when he said in this campaign that I was going to hurt African-Americans, Latinos with the health care program that I have offered. And he on any number of occasions has gone to groups and said that I am going to destroy Medicaid without saying what it's going to be replaced with. And to say to me who's had the deep commitment to the issue of racial unity in this country since I started in politics that I would go out and hurt African-Americans and Latinos, consciously, as a part of a policy, I think really offended me. What I'm trying to do with the health care program that I've offered is to take Medicaid and replace it with something that is better. Forty percent of the people in America who now live in poverty, do not have any health coverage. They're not covered by Medicaid. Under the proposal that I've offered they would all be covered. And I think Al has misrepresented that.
MR. GORE Well you know Harry Truman said in 1948 I'm not giving him hell. I'm just telling the truth and he thinks it's hell. Now, I didn't say any of the things that you heard. What I said is that poor people are disproportionately likely to be minorities, disproportionately likely to be African-American and Latino. And if you look at the groups that are hurt when Medicaid is eliminated and they're given instead a little $150-a-month voucher for H.M.O.'s or health care capped at $150, then that is going to -- I do talk about what is proposed as a replacement for Medicaid and it is entirely inadequate. Let me tell you why, Peter. He says use this capped voucher to buy into the Federal Employee Benefit Plan. Look here in New Hampshire. There are about a dozen different insurance health policies that are under the Federal Employee Benefit Plan. Not a single one of them can be purchased for anything close to $150 a month. . . . If you are in groups that are much more likely to be represented among impoverished Americans who receive Medicaid, then you're going to be more likely to be hurt by that. . . .
MR. BRADLEY Al is saying all the time about a hundred-and-fifty-dollar cap. That's not a cap. It's a weighted average. Someplace it'll be more, someplace it'll be less.
And I might point out that the average Medicaid cost in your home state of Tennessee is $91 a person. So you can say that the men -- that people in Tennessee haven't been very generous, but you can't say that my proposal would deny health coverage to Americans who need it. . . .
MR. GORE Well, what is a weighted average? I remember the old story about the man who had his feet on a block of ice and his head in the oven and according to the weighted average he was really comfortable there.
Now, the -- the -- the fact is that the -- the plan that you just cited for the mail handlers cost $182.72 for an individual as a premium. You cap that at $150. You said for a family of four it might work. Yep, that's right. That's right. But out of the dozen plans, that is the only one where a family of four might get a little bit of coverage. The individual would not and under all of the others ----
MR. BRADLEY Yeah, well, that's important.
MR. GORE Now, now, hold on -- hold on just a second, Bill.
MR. BRADLEY You've just said that that is so.
MR. GORE Look, this is serious. You have put forward a plan that would affect New Hampshire. And all of the people who would be affected in New Hampshire would be left out. They would be left high and dry ----
MR. BRADLEY They would not.
MR. GORE because there is no plan that they can buy into. . . .
MR. GORE We passed tough welfare reform, which I think has worked. You voted against it. I voted against those budget cuts; you voted for them. I voted, as I said a moment ago, for the resolution to use military force to push Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait; you voted against it. My question is not about the details of those votes. It's really more basic. Would you vote differently on any of those three votes if you had it to do over again? Were they mistakes and why?
MR. BRADLEY The answer is no I wouldn't have voted differently. In '81, if everybody in the Congress had voted as I had voted against the budge -- for the budget cuts but against the tax cuts, we would not have had the deficit of the 1990's. As a result of that we would had more economic growth. As you are well aware, given the economic growth now, when you have more economic growth, you have more revenue coming into the government, which would have meant more money to do things to try to help the people who are poor.
No on welfare reform. I don't think the answer to the problems of people who are poor in America is to take a pot of money from federal officials and send it to state officials and say, spend 80 percent of this as best you can. I think that this is a much more serious question. We have a booming economy, welfare is down, but deep poverty is up, it's not down, deep poverty. . . .
And on the issue of the Persian Gulf, no. The fact of the matter is when the vote was taken, I thought that we should continue sanctions, as did most people in my party. And I thought that you should continue sanctions and then later have the right to use force. I said I was prepared to use force at a later date. And that's a decision that I made then and I stand by it. . . .
Q. Mr. Bradley used the phrase and you both talked about gays in the military, you both believe that gays should have the right to serve openly in the military. President Clinton's had great difficulty , the Joint Chiefs as well as the Congress have been a principal obstacle to that particular policy. If you become president -- I'll ask you one at a time, you first Mr. Gore -- if you become president, will you nominate members of the Joint Chiefs who only support your gay policy? In other words, will it be a litmus test?
MR. GORE I have rejected the notion of litmus tests on the Supreme Court by saying that there are ways to find out the kind of judgment somebody has without posing specific litmus tests.
I think that it's a little different where the Joint Chiefs of Staff are concerned because you're not interfering with an independent judicial decision. As commander in chief, a president is giving orders in effect or he is the superior of the officers that are reporting to the commander and chief in the chain of command.
I would try to bring about the kind of change in policy, on the don't ask, don't tell policy, that President Harry Truman brought about after World War II in integrating the military. And I think that would require those who wanted to serve in on the position of -- on the Joint Chiefs to be in agreement with that policy. So, yes.
Q. So, if I understand you correctly, you would only nominate members of the Joint Chiefs if they supported your gay support --
MR. GORE I would think -- here, I think that the new policy has to be implemented in a way that accomplishes the goal and yet recognized the practical challenges that the military leadership will have to confront in making that change. I would insist, before appointing anybody to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that that individual support my policy. And, yes I would make that a requirement.
Q. Mr. Bradley, would you, sir?
MR. BRADLEY I consider it much shorter words, I think. And that is when you're president you are commander and chief and you issue orders and soldiers are good soldiers and they follow your orders. A consultation process takes place certainly in which you hear their view, but when you follow and order, no matter -- I'm sure that there are people in the military today who don't agree with President Clinton on 50 things. But my sense is that when you're president of the United States, military people are loyal to their commander and chief whatever the policy is that the commander in chief calls for for the country. And that's what I expect them to do if I'm president of the United States and we move toward gays in the military, which I intend to do.
 The full text of the debate is available from The New York Times on the Web:
 www.nytimes.com/politics 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN ADMINISTRATION INC (50%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MEDICAID (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HEALTH CARE (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



161 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: While Calling for a Positive Campaign, McCain Is Accused of Being Negative

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 5

 BODY:
Senator John McCain urged presidential candidates today to "help turn the practice of politics toward a higher plane." But his own campaign was soon accused by aides to Gov. George W. Bush of practicing negative politics.
Mr. McCain, of Arizona, set down his challenge in a broad speech about citizenship. Mentioning only Mr. Bush, the Republican front-runner from Texas, and Vice President Al Gore by name, Mr. McCain said, "Let us lead by example." 
 "We should refrain from attacking each other," Mr. McCain challenged the presidential contenders of both parties, "directly or through surrogates, with the negative advertising that has disgusted the nation, and pledge ourselves to a high standard of accuracy in discussions of our own agendas and those of our opponents."
He spoke as the Republican race was intensifying. Mr. McCain also found himself on the defensive over accusations that he had intervened with the Federal Communications Commission to urge it to resolve a matter of interest to a contributor. He insisted his actions had been "entirely appropriate."
In his speech, Mr. McCain told voters: "Judge us not by the promises we make, the stories we tell, nor the ads we run. Measure us, by all means, by the policies and proposals we lay forth for your consideration. But judge us as well by the example we set; by the way we conduct our campaigns; by the way we personally practice politics."
But at the same campaign stop, with Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush in an escalating battle over tax cuts and Social Security, the senator's aides distributed a "backgrounder" on the issues that seemed at odds with his call for a different kind of politics.
It was titled "McCain's Mature Vision for America's Future v. Bush's Political Plan for the 2000 Election." Mr. McCain later called the title "a cheap shot."
Mr. Bush's aides promptly went on the offensive and criticized the entire flier as a "woeful misrepresentation" of Mr. Bush's positions.
"It's the same type of attack politics that the Democrats are engaging in," said Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, pointing to the flier's contention that Mr. Bush's tax cut plan would use the entire federal surplus and leave "Social Security in danger."
Mr. Bush was not as pointed in his remarks. "I know people want a fight and a slug fest, but I'm not going to allow this campaign to deteriorate into a slug fest. John McCain is a good man; we have a difference of opinion as to the size of tax cuts, how they ought to work."
Mr. Bush has said he would not dip into the part of the surplus generated by Social Security revenue for tax cuts. He would then use a large part of the non-Social Security surplus to pay for his plan to cut taxes.
Mr. McCain has argued that if the economy does not perform according to projections, the surplus could shrink and Mr. Bush's tax cut could eat into the Social Security surplus or require an increase in the Social Security payroll tax. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TAX RELIEF (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (53%); 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



162 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Two Democrats In Debate Back Gays in Military

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.H., Jan. 5

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore and his Democratic opponent, Bill Bradley, said tonight that if they were elected president they would require their appointees to the Joint Chiefs of Staff to fully support allowing homosexuals to serve openly in the military.
Although both candidates had previously opposed the Clinton administration's "don't ask, don't tell" policy their comments in the fourth Democratic debate of the primary season, here at the University of New Hampshire, were a strikingly forceful embrace of gay rights and were bound to come under attack by the Republican candidates. 
 Their remarks came in response to a question of whether they would support a "litmus test" on gays in the military in nominating members of the Joint Chiefs.
Of the two, Mr. Gore was the more expansive, saying he wanted to make the same sweeping changes toward allowing homosexuals to serve openly in the military that President Harry S. Truman made toward racially integrating the armed forces.
"I think that would require those who wanted to serve on the Joint Chiefs to be in agreement with that policy," Mr. Gore said. "I would insist before appointing anybody to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that that individual support my policy, and yes, I would make that a requirement."
The vice president drew a distinction between applying a litmus test to Supreme Court justices and military officials, saying this was "not interfering with an independent judicial decision."
Mr. Bradley said simply that the commander in chief issued orders and soldiers followed them. He said that while many in the armed forces probably did not agree with President Clinton on some military matters, "My sense is that when you're president of the United States, military people are loyal to their commander in chief whatever the policy of the commander in chief calls for the country, and that's what I'd expect them to do if I'm president of the United States and we move toward gays in the military."
Mr. Bradley's aides said later that while he objected to the concept of litmus tests, they could not imagine that he would appoint anyone to the Joint Chiefs who did not back his policy.
Despite the candidates' agreement on homosexuals in the military, the debate tonight was punctuated by edgy exchanges as Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley picked at details of each other's past votes and present proposals.
Mr. Bradley portrayed the vice president as having been so trapped in a "Washington bunker" that he had lost the ambition to fight for proposals on health care and gun control. Mr. Gore suggested that his rival was living in an ivory tower and lacked the know-how to get things done.
But the exchange over a gay-rights litmus test for top commanders is almost certain to renew controversy in the military, where many high-ranking officers strongly oppose allowing gays to serve openly.
President Clinton had originally pledged to allow homosexuals to serve openly, but backed away from the plan after a near revolt by Gen. Colin L. Powell and other members of the Joint Chiefs early in his presidency. A result was "the don't ask, don't tell" policy, which Mr. Bradley and Mr. Gore say is a failure.
Retired members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and other military experts warned tonight that subjecting future members to a litmus test would hurt the armed services.
"Military officers certainly execute the orders of the president, but a litmus test beforehand would place an officer in an untenable position saying, 'Do you believe what I believe?' " said Gen. Carl E. Mundy, a retired commandant of the Marine Corps. "I think it would be unworkable."
"An officer's judgment has to be tempered by his judgment of what's best for the armed forces, not for a political agenda," said General Mundy, who opposes allowing homosexuals to serve openly.
The candidates' comments tonight about homosexuals in the military underscored the degree to which Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley are intent on courting the liberal base of their party. In fact, earlier in the debate, neither candidate objected to being described as a liberal -- a label that Democrats, including Bill Clinton, have eschewed in recent years.
"Liberal, progressive, whatever," Mr. Bradley said. "I'll accept whatever label you want because that's who I am."
Mr. Gore, who earlier in the day was endorsed by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, said, "I really don't care what kind of label people apply to those positions and views."
Perhaps the harshest remark during the hourlong debate came from Mr. Bradley after he was asked when Mr. Gore had ever taken one of his quotes or votes out of context. "The one that was most particularly offensive to me was when he said in this campaign that I was going to hurt African-Americans, Latinos with the health care program I have offered," Mr. Bradley said.
"To say to me, who's had the deep commitment to the issue of racial unity in this country since I started in politics, that I would go out and hurt African-Americans and Latinos, consciously, as part of a policy, I think really offended me."
Mr. Gore defended his comments, saying, "Well, you know, Harry Truman said in 1948, 'I'm not giving him hell. I'm just telling the truth and he thinks it's hell.' " He said he had simply explained that "poor people are disproportionately likely to be minorities" and would be affected the most by Mr. Bradley's replacement of Medicaid with an alternative program.
Both contenders were trying to score points with a precious few weeks before the Feb. 1 primary here. Polls in this state show that Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley are within shouting distance of each other.
The face-off here, the first in 2000, opened a flurry of debates among the White House hopefuls. Republicans will debate here on Thursday and in South Carolina on Friday. On Saturday, Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley will debate in Iowa. And the Republican candidates will appear at a forum here on Sunday and then at a debate in Michigan on Monday.
In tonight's debate, Mr. Bradley appeared particularly aggressive and was more willing to take issue with Mr. Gore than he had been in the past. But he also had a relaxed air and displayed an easy humor.
At one point, for instance, Mr. Gore insisted that he respected his rival. "I respect Bill, I really do," he said. "I'm not just saying that as a ploy. I think he's a genuinely good person."
Asked by Peter Jennings, the moderator and ABC News anchor, if he agreed with Mr. Gore, Mr. Bradley drew laughs when he replied, "I agree with what he said, yeah. I think I'm a genuinely good person."
At times, Mr. Bradley verged on condescension, as when he said, "Let me explain to you, Al, how the private sector works, O.K."
Mr. Gore seemed calmer than in his earlier performances as he fielded questions, but still did not shrink from criticizing Mr. Bradley's record. He was particularly persistent in upbraiding the former senator from New Jersey for what he depicted as mistaken votes, such as supporting President Ronald Reagan's budget cuts.
"We passed tough welfare reform, which I think has worked; you voted against it," Mr. Gore said. "I voted against those budget cuts; you voted for them. I voted, as I said a moment ago, for the resolution to use military force to push Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait; you voted against it."
Mr. Bradley said he did not regret any of those votes. "In '81, if everybody in the Congress had voted as I had voted," he said, "we would not have had the deficit of the 1990's. As a result of that we would have had more economic growth." And Mr. Bradley said he was still not convinced that the welfare reform effort was working or that it would have been wrong to try sanctions before using force against Saddam Hussein.
Mr. Bradley sought to depict the vice president as thinking like a Washington insider and afraid to try ambitious proposals.
"When I hear you talk, Al, it reminds me of a Washington bunker," Mr. Bradley said. "I can understand why you're in the bunker because of Gingrich, there was the fund-raising scandal, the impeachment problem. And I think that the major objective in the last several years in the White House has been political survival."
"I understand that," Mr. Bradley continued. "But the reality is the Democratic Party should be thinking big things, with big ambitions."
But Mr. Gore portrayed Mr. Bradley as out of touch with the realities of Washington. "I believe that the presidency is not an academic exercise," Mr. Gore said. "It's not an extended seminar on theory. It has to be a daily fight for the best interests of the American people."
He added: "The country can ill afford big mistakes by a president who stumbles into something that could be avoided with the kind of judgment and experience that our people ought to have the right to expect in any president."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bradley and Vice President Al Gore squared off yesterday at the University of New Hampshire in the first presidential debate of the year. (Pool Photo by Luke Frazza)(pg. A20)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); GUN CONTROL (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



163 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 74 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Southwest Airlines Adds Albany Flights

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Southwest Airlines, based in Dallas, is expected to announce new service between Albany and at least four other cities, according to Senator Charles E. Schumer. 
 Airfares for upstate New York cities rank among the highest in the nation, and some economists and public officials have maintained that those costs have crippled the region's economy. An unrestricted ticket between Rochester and Albany runs about $500, for instance.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIR FARES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



164 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F;Page 1;Column 2;House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: Visions of Greener Pastures Reinvent the Lower East Side

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
TENEMENTS, yes. Luxury housing? It's not what leaps to mind about the Lower East Side.
But a loft-style condominium at 18 Orchard Street, near Canal, sold recently for $1.1 million in a bidding war that surprised even the developers. Four smaller units in the warehouse building sold in the high $600,000's. At 130 Orchard Street, the Beckenstein Home Fabrics building, still cheek by jowl with discount men's suit stores and sidewalk leather-jacket merchants, is being converted into rental apartments priced as high as $3,000 a month for a 450-square-foot studio. 
 In the last year, residential redevelopment has been undertaken in 25 percent of the 230 commercial or mixed-use buildings at the heart of the neighborhood, according to the Lower East Side Business Improvement District.
Orchard Street, with its narrow grove of grim tenements, hasn't seen fruit this sweet since it was cut through an orchard in the 18th century, on Lt. Gov. James De Lancey's 340-acre farm.
By 1903, with the arrival of hundreds of thousands of immigrants, one square block of Orchard Street between Delancey and Broome Streets was said to be the most crowded place on earth. "My grandparents, forced to settle here, couldn't wait to get out," said Mark Federman, 54, the third-generation owner of Russ & Daughters, a smoked fish business started in a pushcart on Orchard Street.
Now, people are fighting to get in. If they can afford to.
Pushed south and east by rising "uptown" prices in the East Village and SoHo, and pulled by the magnet of a thriving bar and boutique scene, young professionals are looking to LoHo, as real estate agents have re-named the stretch of the Lower East Side between East Houston and Canal Streets and Forsyth and Clinton Streets. It is fashion's new frontier.
"A couple of generations later, my kids want to live down here," said Mr. Federman, whose store has been at 179 East Houston Street for 70 years. "They think it's the coolest neighborhood."
A six-story hotel is on the drafting board for a lot at East Houston and Forsyth Streets; another hotel is being developed four blocks away.
At 175 Broadway, the Jewish Daily Forward Building, built in 1912 for the Yiddish-language Socialist newspaper, is also being converted into condominiums. The World War I-era Sunshine Theater at 139-43 East Houston Street, an early cinema and later a Yiddish vaudeville hall, is reopening this summer as a $8 million, five-screen art-film cineplex.
"There's a lot of energy and excitement there," said Doug Freed, vice president of Landmark Theater Corporation, the nation's largest art-house chain, which is developing the site for its first theater in New York.
Even Ratner's, a Delancey Street landmark since 1905, is renovating. Its Lansky Lounge, popular with the newer club crowd, is expanding, at the expense of the dairy kosher dining room. "The lounge caters more to the neighborhood now," said Robert Harmatz, its third-generation owner. "The Ratner's part -- most of those customers have moved away."
To meet the demand for renovated apartments, 19th-century tenements, sealed over the last 50 years by landlords whose rents couldn't compete with the cost of successive building code requirements like fire-proofing and indoor toilets, are being reopened. In 1978, Mr. Federman let the apartments above his store become vacant. Now, he is renovating them as rentals. "My son's waiting for me to finish the building," Mr. Federman said. "Real estate in the neighborhood has gone through the roof." Mr. Federman's son, Noah, 24, a student at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, was at the store, helping out during the holidays.
"Hopefully I'm not taking over the business," he said, with nervous cheer.
"I'm the only Jewish father who wants his son to drop out of medical school," the elder Mr. Federman said. "Who needs another doctor? What we need are people who can slice salmon."
Sol Einhorn, owner of the Bridge Merchandise Company at 98 Orchard Street, renovated his building four years ago. "In the last two years, everybody's into the game, to make apartments out of old tenement houses," he said.
WHO'S moving in?
Brian Edwards, director of leasing for the Halstead Property Company, which is representing the Beckenstein's building, said that tenant applicants included "the dot-com crowd" -- young bankers, photographers, architects and alternative music record label entrepreneurs.
"This is not your mother's Lower East Side," he said.
Sven Harding, an associate with Ernst & Young, moved onto Orchard Street in December. He pays $1,695 for his renovated one-bedroom apartment.
"I love the neighborhood," said Mr. Harding, 29, adding that he thought his apartment was a bargain. "You see how it's changing. Little boutiques, interesting bars at night. I hear that there's some resistance to people like me, yuppies, moving in, driving up rents, but I haven't experienced it."
For Phillip Toledano, a senior art director at Merkley Newman Harty, an advertising agency, who purchased an 800-square-foot penthouse at 62 Orchard Street, with roof rights, for $682,000, the Lower East Side is still the discount district. The ground floor of Mr. Toledano's building is G&G International Menswear.
"Everything I saw of that size was way beyond what I could pay," he said of spaces he was shown in the East Village, SoHo and TriBeCa. Mr. Toledano, who is Jewish, said that when he told his parents about his expensive new home on Orchard Street, "their friends were horrified." Julia Zervas, his real estate agent, recalled hearing a lawyer at the closing say, "My God, my father spent years getting out."
Mr. Toledano, who last lived in the East Village, was unconcerned about the lack of basic services, like a supermarket. "The last time I cooked, I gave myself food poisoning," he explained. "I'll be eating a lot of Chinese."
In fact, the Lower East Side's replenishing population of recent immigrants, which has maintained the neighborhood's living historical character since the 1820's, when Germans started arriving and building, is now largely Chinese. They predominate among the Asians, who represent roughly 77 percent of the area's recent immigrants, according to a City Planning Department study published in November. Dominicans are predominant in the other large group, Hispanics.
With advancing gentrification and new market pressures on real estate, there is growing concern that the Lower East Side's soaring celebrity status will displace its traditional tenants and end its era as the city's first home to its "huddled masses."
From city officials to community leaders to school administrators, there is apprehension about the character of the most current changes, in a neighborhood whose very stability and strength have been change and a revolving chance at opportunity.
Rosa O'Day, principal for seven years of Public School 42, an elementary school of 760 children on Hester Street, said, "We have heard from families that it's hard for them to afford the rents, that a lot of housing is becoming unaffordable."
Margarita Lopez, a city councilwoman for the area, expressed concern that the focus brought to bear on the district, through well-financed development, could fracture the kinship among diverse ethnic groups created in common hardships that has been the family tree of the neighborhood for 200 years.
The new upscale arrivals, she explained, "have the credit lines."
"These individuals are in the best position to come onto the market and buy this new housing," she said. "It's no longer a community that depends on rental, a community that would always be diverse. The implication is that it will be those who have the dollars to buy."
Assemblyman Steven Sanders, of the 63rd Assembly District, is also concerned. "People who assume that large groups of people will be quietly removed might be surprised at how unsocial this change could become," he said. "It would be wise to have a more coherent master plan for the Lower East Side that had a component of lower income housing. To just allow parcels of property to just be transformed one by one to high-price housing would be a mistake."
He added: "If we're careful, it could be a cultural renaissance. If we are not careful, it could prove to turn the Lower East Side into a huge battlefield."
But Susan Vaughn, chairwoman of Community Board 3, said that she had not yet seen evidence of residential displacements because of the arrival of new money.
"You have to understand that a lot of these new apartments are in buildings that were totally vacant above the storefront level," she said.
Many merchants say they are heartened by the fresh faces of both commerce and customers. Mr. Federman at Russ & Daughters sees the newest change in the neighborhood as part of a continuum.
"It's a renaissance, not gentrification," he said. "The neighborhood has gone through many changes and managed to perceive them in a positive way. This is just another group of people. For years, this neighborhood was in deep decline. The Jewish population started leaving en masse after World War II, to Long Island and Westchester. The older people expect the same places -- 'Oh my God, it's changed. It doesn't have the Jewish flavor.' It hasn't had that for a while."
Councilwoman Kathryn Freed, who also represents the area, agreed.
"The neighborhood was dying -- now it's come back," she said, citing shops like Zao at 175 Orchard Street -- a trance club crossed with a rave party and a newstand that also sells shoes and dishes and exhibits art. "Rents are skyrocketing, like they are everywhere," Ms. Freed added. "But the businesses are a success story, and by being successful they're bringing more people to the area. And that's good."
In an effort to preserve both its historic buildings and its Jewish community heritage, the Lower East Side Conservancy, a nonprofit organization, and the Lower East Side Business District have applied to put part of the area on the state and national registers of historic places. It expects the nominations to be approved by early spring. The registry would allow property owners tax abatements for renovations that conform to guidelines.
The proposal that could have the largest impact on the Lower East Side is the Economic Development Corporation's Seward Park Extension Urban Renewal Project, five parcels of land south of Delancey Street by the Williamsburg Bridge being offered by the city for both residential and commercial development. At least nine private development proposals have now been presented to the Mayor's office, said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the corporation.
Mr. Federman, hearing of the existence of the huge plan, responded like a local.
"That guy who bought the million-dollar loft," he said, "he should have bought a dozen."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about gentrification on the Lower East Side of Manhattan misstated the location of the Jewish Daily Forward Building. As a map with the article showed, it is at 175 East Broadway, not Broadway.


GRAPHIC: Photos: RESEEDING ORCHARD STREET -- Alife, a shoe store/art gallery at No. 178, replaced a wholesaler.; ARTIST AND RESIDENT -- Denise Carbonell, among the new generation of LoHo residents, whose home, top, reflects the area's vitality. Page 7. (Joanne Chan for The New York Times above and top ); WHOLESALE RENOVATION -- The Beckenstein Home Fabrics building at 130 Orchard Street, top, is being converted into rental apartments with $3,000 studios. Above, business as usual in the discount district at street level, while apartment shells overhead await their new tenants. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. F1); PLAYING IT AGAIN -- The Sunshine Theater, above, was a movie theater in 1917, then a Yiddish vaudeville hall. This year it is scheduled to reopen as an $8 million LoHo art-film cineplex. A developer said, "There's a lot of energy and excitement there." (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. F7)
 
Map of Manhattan shows location of Orchard Street. (pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); EARTH (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); EARTH (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); WORLD WAR I (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); MOVIE THEATERS (63%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000



165 of 788 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Haunted Orphans in Havana, Undone by the Sheer Passion and Problems of Life

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Like so many characters in Latin American literature, the three major characters in Fernando Perez's lush, hallucinatory film ''Life Is to Whistle'' walk around with an awareness of the supernatural that simultaneously inspires and oppresses them. As these passionate, troubled residents of Havana, all three of them orphans, go about their lives, we have an acute sense of their being haunted and held back by religious and ancestral specters.
 The director's master stroke is his portrayal of their internal conflicts as a metaphor for the political and economic anxieties gripping Cuba in the twilight of the Castro era. Although the Communist government is barely mentioned, all three characters ultimately find themselves forced to choose between clinging to their self-restricting beliefs and shucking them off to live more autonomously. 
 Elpidio Valdes (Luis Alberto Garcia), a swarthy young musician and fisherman abandoned by his mother (symbolically named Cuba), is consumed with guilt because he hasn't fulfilled his revolutionary destiny. Elpidio's chance for liberation arrives in the form of Chrissy (Isabel Santos), a Greenpeace worker who sails into Cuba in a hot-air balloon. The two carry on a passionate affair until it's time for her leave, and she invites him to fly away with her to the United States.
 Julia (Coralia Veloz), a middle-aged social worker with a job in a home for the aged, is subject to spontaneous fainting spells set off by the word ''sex.'' Pressured by her friends to consult a psychiatrist, she uncovers a traumatic love affair in her past.
 Later, as the patient and her doctor stroll through the streets of Havana, Julia discovers that half the city is living in a similar state of denial, with people keeling over right and left on the pavement when certain forbidden words are uttered.
 Finally there is Mariana (Claudia Rojas), a beautiful, ambitious young dancer with several lovers who vows to God that she will be celibate if she wins the coveted title role in a production of ''Giselle.'' When her prayer is answered, she is overjoyed. But the moment she and her handsome young co-star, Ismael (Joan Manuel Reyes), set eyes on each other, they fall wildly in love, and Mariana finds herself in a state of almost unbearable torment.
 ''Life Is to Whistle,'' which opens today at the Walter Reade Theater, views these characters through the eyes of Bebe (Bebe Perez), an enigmatic 18-year-old spirit who appears in various settings, including underwater. The film crosscuts among the three characters she conjures up for our amusement. As their frustrations escalate, all three find themselves propelled at the same moment on the same day to confront their possible destinies in Revolution Square in Havana.
 The movie strings out its characters' inner dramas a bit longer than necessary. Well before their rendezvous with fate we are impatient for them to make the break.
 Yet if ''Life Is to Whistle'' drags toward the end, it has many charms. Its surrealist imagery, inspired by Magritte paintings, lends it a thread of visual zaniness (although there are several too many images of shaved fish). And the movie is so deeply in sync with its characters' passions that it sustains a mood of heady sensuality.
 Love seems to bloom on every Havana street corner, and the throbbing music of Bola de Nieve and Benny More, which punctuates the film, makes its erotic pulse race even faster.

LIFE IS TO WHISTLE

Directed by Fernando Perez; written (in Spanish, with English subtitles) by Mr. Perez, Humberto Jimenez and Eduardo Del Llano; director of photography, Paul Perez Ureta; edited by Julia Yip; music by Edesio Alejandro; produced by ICAIC and Wanda Distribution S.A.; released by New Yorker Films. At the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Running time: 106 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Luis Alberto Garcia (Elpidio Valdes), Coralia Veloz (Julia), Claudia Rojas (Mariana), Bebe Perez (Bebe), Isabel Santos (Chrissy), Joan Manuel Reyes (Ismail) and Rolando Brito (Dr. Fernando).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis Alberto Garcia portrays a passionate, troubled musician and fisherman who lives in Havana, in Fernando Perez's hallucinatory film ''Life Is to Whistle.'' (New Yorker Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (76%); LITERATURE (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Life is to Whistle (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004



166 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 5; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3084 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC AND DANCE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy opera, classical music and dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region.
 
Opera
 
"DIE FLEDERMAUS." If you didn't get to hear "Die Fledermaus" on New Year's Eve, which is something of a tradition, however stale, in the opera world, you can still hear it at Amato Opera this weekend. The production, presented in English, with musical and stage direction by Anthony Amato, is apparently a favorite with fans of this small, scrappy company. Amato Opera; tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and Sunday at 2:30 p.m., 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village). Tickets are $25; $20 for the elderly and children under 12. (212) 228-8200 (Anthony Tommasini). 

"THE GREAT GATSBY." Metropolitan Opera. The Met presents its long-awaited "Great Gatsby," commissioned from John Harbison. Look for two uproarious party scenes featuring vivid dancing and the composer's clever syntheses of 1920's popular style. The cast, with Dawn Upshaw, Susan Graham, Jerry Hadley and Dwayne Croft, is first rate, and the production has a handsome simplicity. The music never quite lives up to its surroundings, but the Met's earnest effort at new American opera deserves support. Tonight at 8. Tickets: standing room only, $12 and $16. (212) 362-6000 (Bernard Holland).
 
NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS. Albert Bergeret's New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players are an inventive, experienced and energetic troupe, the only survivors of what was once a thriving Savoyard tradition in New York. The group's productions are solid and simple, with topical touches and good, enthusiastic casts and often a guest star. For its current offering, "Princess Ida," the guest is Frank Gorshin, as King Gama. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street. (212) 864-5400. Tickets: $31, $41 and $46; $5 off each ticket price for children 12 and younger. The Saturday performance is preceded at 1:45 p.m. by "Family Overtures," in which the operetta is introduced by Mr. Bergeret. It is free to ticketholders. (Allan Kozinn)
 
"REGINA." A new film from the director Tim Robbins tells the story of the struggle by John Houseman and Orson Wells to present Marc Blitzstein's populist opera "The Cradle Will Rock" in 1937. This makes more timely the Bronx Opera Company production of Blitzstein's 1949 opera, "Regina," an adaptation of Lillian Hellman's play "The Little Foxes." While more traditional in concept than "Cradle," "Regina" is an innovative and interesting work. For more than 30 years this independent, community-based company has been giving performance opportunities to young singers and introducing audiences to opera. Michael Spierman will conduct, and Benjamin Spierman directs. Lovinger Theater at Lehman College, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, the Bronx. Tomorrow night at 8 and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets are $20 and $15 ($18 and $13 for students and the elderly). Information: (718) 356-4209; reservations: (212) 807-5636 (Tommasini).
 
"RIGOLETTO." Two new singers take over major roles at the Metropolitan Opera in Verdi's "Rigoletto." The title role will be sung by the baritone Leo Nucci, who sang it when this Otto Schenk production was introduced in 1989. The soprano Youngok Shin sings Gilda. The highly touted tenor Marcelo Alvarez continues in the role of the Duke. Mr. Alvarez boasts a bright tenor voice but is overly emotive in the role. Vladimir Jurowski, a 27-year-old conductor who was quite impressive with "Rigoletto" for his Met debut on Christmas Eve, is on the podium again. Metropolitan Opera House, Saturday night at 8. Tickets: standing room only, $12 and $16. (212) 362-6000 (Tommasini).
 
"TOSCA." Franco Zeffirelli's production of Puccini's "Tosca" has long been one of the Metropolitan Opera's most popular offerings. This weekend's production is nearly sold out, though some tickets remain and last-minute returns are usually available. Three stalwart interpreters of the main roles will be singing: the soprano Carol Vaness as Tosca, the tenor Richard Leech as Cavaradossi and the bass James Morris as Scarpia. Daniel Oren, a gifted young conductor, is at the podium. This is the last chance to see "Tosca" this season. Metropolitan Opera House, tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. Tickets: standing room only, $12 and $16. (212) 362-6000 (Tommasini).
 
Classical Music
 
AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA. As usual, the indispensable American Composers Orchestra is offering another interesting program at Carnegie Hall. Called "Roots," it offers two works by American originals, "Quartets" (for 41 players) by John Cage, and the Symphony in E Minor, "Gaelic," by Amy Beach. There will also be two world premieres: "Tomorrow's Song, as Yesterday Sings Today" by the acclaimed jazz composer Muhal Richard Abrams, and "Harlem Essay," for orchestra and digital audio tape, by the young composer Daniel Bernard Roumain, who integrates the sounds of urban pop into his concert works. Dennis Russell Davies conducts. Carnegie Hall, Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets are $46-$16. CenterCharge, (212) 247-7800. (Tommasini).
 
BARGEMUSIC. Having just completed a traversal of Bach's "Brandenburg" Concertos, the musicians who oversee the programming for this intimate, floating concert hall on the East River are turning their attentions to Beethoven. This weekend Paul Rosenthal and Mark Peskanov, violinists; Toby Hoffman, violist; and Nathaniel Rosen, cellist, offer Beethoven's Fourth, Fifth and Sixth String Quartets (Op. 18, 4-6). Tonight at 7:30, Sunday at 4. Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing, Brooklyn. (718) 624-2083 or (718) 624-4061. Tickets: $23, $20 for the elderly, $15 for students (Kozinn).
 
EVANGELINE BENEDETTI. The cellist Evangeline Benedetti, the first woman appointed to the New York Philharmonic, in 1967, presents her annual free recital this weekend at West End Collegiate Church. She is presenting a program of "joyous music in major keys"; a brochure for the recital promises works by Beethoven, Hindemith, Schumann and Mendelssohn. Those looking for a totally happy concert experience should be warned that every now and then the pieces in question do sneak visits into related minor keys. The pianist is David Korevaar. West End Collegiate Church, West End Avenue and 77th Street. Sunday at 3:30 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 787-1566 (Tommasini).
 
CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER. "Musical Evolutions II: Crisis and Creativity (1922-1945)" is the title of the Chamber Music Society's interesting series that begins this weekend. Offering six concerts and four lectures, the series will examine music composed during that historic period of catastrophic economic collapse, political turmoil, Fascism, world war and genocide. Yet paradoxically there were years of intense creativity and radical innovation in the arts, especially music. The series begins tomorrow with a lecture by the composer Bruce Adolphe, the society's education adviser, called "Innovation and Renovation," in which he will discuss how composers "reclaimed the past to discover the future," as the series brochure states. The first concert comes on Sunday when the violinist Joshua Bell and the pianist Frederic Chiu play works of Copland, Prokofiev, Ravel and Bartok. Lecture: Rose Rehearsal Studio, Lincoln Center, 165 West 65th Street, 10th floor. Saturday at 11 a.m. Free, but reservations are required. (212) 875-5788. Recital with Joshua Bell: Alice Tully Hall, Sunday at 5 p.m. Tickets, $25 and $35. (212) 875-5788; CenterCharge: (212) 721-6500 (Tommasini).
 
"ELIJAH." Mendelssohn's greatest choral work is heard more frequently on recordings than in concert, and opportunities to hear it live are worth pursuing. Whether this performance can capture its grandeur remains to be seen: the 16-year-old Ibex Chamber Orchestra is a small ensemble, but church acoustics may help give it the required heft. The orchestra, conducted by Martin Rutishauser, is to be joined by the Long Island Symphonic Choral Society (which is directed by the estimable Gregg Smith). The soloists are Meredith Stone, soprano; April Lindevald, alto; Howard Carr, tenor; and Thami Zungu, bass-baritone. Sunday at 4 p.m. Tickets, $15; $10 for students and the elderly. Evangelical Lutheran Church of St. Paul, 315 West 22nd Street, Chelsea. (212) 362-1732 (Kozinn).
 
MUSIC BEFORE 1800 PRODUCTIONS. The fine resident ensemble of Corpus Christi Church presents an annual Festival of Lessons and Carols, a service that commemorates the Nativity. Louise Basbas, the group's director, has assembled settings that span five centuries, with works by Sheppard, Byrd, Weelkes and Tomkins at the early end; Bach, William Selby and Joseph Stephenson covering the middle ground; and Catherine Aks, Hayes Biggs, Peter Maxwell Davies and Harvey Burgett representing the 20th century. Mr. Burgett's work, an organ fantasy, "Das Alte Jahr Vergangen Ist," is a world premiere. Sunday at 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights. (212) 666-9266. Tickets: $20, $15 for students and the elderly (Kozinn).
 
NEW YORK VIRTUOSO SINGERS. This polished chamber choir, conducted by Harold Rosenbaum, is undertaking a series devoted to choral works of the last century: that is, the 20th. The first installment is devoted to American music, and includes Randall Thompson's "Allelluia," Ives's setting of Psalm 67, Barber's "Twelfth Night," Copland's "In the Beginning," the Dawson arrangement of the spiritual "Ezekial Saw the Wheel," Charles Wuorinen's "A Solis Ortu," John Harbison's "Concerning Them Which Are Sleep" and works by George Perle, Milton Babbitt, David Lang and William Schuman. German, Austrian, Swiss and French works follow in concerts in March and April. Tomorrow night at 8, Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan. (212) 501-3330. Tickets: $18; $10 for students (Kozinn).
 
WILD GINGER PHILHARMONIC. David Goodman, an enterprising percussionist, composer and conductor, leads this colorfully named orchestra of recent graduates from a handful of prestigious conservatories. Among its stated goals is the presentation of classical music in a way that "breaks down barriers between performers and listeners." Its program includes Beethoven's "Coriolan" Overture and Fifth Symphony, and the Shostakovich Chamber Symphony (arranged from his searing String Quartet No. 8). Tomorrow night at 8, Good Shepherd-Faith Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 879-5770. Donation, $20; $10 for students and the elderly (Kozinn).
 
Dance
 
BETONTANC. The Slovenian avant-garde modern dance and theater company returns to La MaMa's Annex Theater in a return engagement of "Secret Sunshine Schedule," performed in November at the theater. Imbued with the company's trademark, sometimes brutal physicality, the eveninglong piece is set in and under an aquarium representing a utopia. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $20; $15 (Sunday); Theater Development Fund vouchers accepted. La Mama E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 475-7710 (Jennifer Dunning).
 
FIRST WEEKEND. The Brooklyn Arts Exchange, formerly known as the Gowanus Arts Exchange, continues this monthly series with a program of new choreography by, and conversation with, Christalyn E. Wright and Aviva Geismar. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Tickets: $12; $6 for low-income audience members. Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope, (718) 832-0018 (Dunning).
 
FLAMENCO EXTRAVAGANZA. The cast may change from performance to performance, depending on which guest artists turn up at this intimate club to sing, dance or play flamenco guitar. But the star of the evening is Carmen La Sala, featured with Paco Ortiz, Juan Amaya, Sandra Rivera and Natalia Brillante. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30. "Scheherazade's Tales," an evening of belly dancing, may be seen on Tuesday nights at 8:30, and there is a variety show on Wednesday nights, also at 8:30. Tickets: $20 for the flamenco program and $10 each for "Scheherazade's Tales" and the variety show. El Patio del East Side, 211 East 60th Street, Manhattan (212) 838-9090 (Dunning).
 
FLAMENCO!: MARIA PAGES AND CANIZARES, Maria Pages, who has appeared in flamenco films by Carlos Saura and in Riverdance, will perform with an ensemble that includes Canizares, the flamenco guitarist, and Eileen Ivers, an award-winning Irish fiddler. A World Music Institute presentation. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Tickets: $35. Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street, near Park Avenue; (212) 772-4448 (Dunning).
 
FOOD FOR THOUGHT. A philanthropic project to aid the hungry also offers a choreographic feast for the eyes. American choreographers hoping to be selected for this year's Bagnolet choreographic competition in France will present works in two spaces. Tonight at 6 (Eun Me Ahn, Ben Munisteri); tomorrow night at 6 (Wally Cardona, Donna Uchizono); Sunday night at 6 (Gina Gibney, Dorothy Jungels/Everett Dance Theater), Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479. Tickets: $10. Tonight at 8:30 (Mark Haim, Jeremy Nelson, Luis Lara, Wil Swanson); tomorrow night at 8:30 (Sean Curran, Mark Jarecke, Lisa Race); Sunday night at 8:30 (David Dorfman, Dan Froot, Allyson Green, Koosil-ja Hwang), St. Mark's Church, Second Avenue and 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194. Tickets: $5 and two cans of food, or $10 (Jack Anderson).
 
FOUR JAPANESE DANCE COMPANIES. Young companies from Japan make their American debuts, acquainting audiences with a new generation of choreographic talents. Participants include Condors (an all-male group), Arrow Dance Communication, Fisherman's Art Factory Yan-Shu, and Kenshi Nohmi and Dance Theater 21. Saturday night at 8, Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155. Tickets: $12 (Anderson).
 
NEW YORK CITY BALLET. There tends to be a special verve to the dancing in the first week or so after the end of the New York City Ballet's "Nutcracker" season. And this weekend will be a feast for fans of Wendy Whelan, a ballerina of special glamor, who will be in at least one ballet at every performance. Another highlight is likely to be the performance tonight of George Balanchine's "Mozartiana" lead by Miranda Weese, whose instinctual dance intelligence and subtlety promises much for this luminous prayer of a ballet. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $45 to $72. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center; (212) 870-5570 (Dunning).
 
FAY SIMPSON DANCE THEATER. Dedicated to performing that blends dance and acting, the Fay Simpson Dance Theater will present a return engagement of "Trapped in Seven," an autobiographical solo work about living with H.I.V. The work was conceived and performed by Ms. Simpson, who was diagnosed in 1987 and who suspects, she says during the piece, that she is still alive for a reason. Tomorrow at 4 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $12. Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 647-0202 (Dunning).
 
SARAH SKAGGS DANCE. Sarah Skaggs, her dancers and D.J. Steven Harvey and dancers will perform in "Paradise," a work that is part dance concert, part participatory dance party. The piece, which takes place in a gymnasium, is the first in a series presented by the Danspace Project's Artists in the House program, which takes performers and performances into places where people live. Tonight and next Saturday night at 7 and 9. Tickets: $10 (one show); $15 (both shows). St. Patrick's Youth Center, 268 Mulberry Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, Little Italy, (212) 674-8194 (Dunning).
 
STUTTGART BALLET. On its five-week American tour the acclaimed Stuttgart Ballet will present a repertory that concentrates almost exclusively on works created for the company within the last three years by choreographers who include Maura Bigonzetti, Christian Spuck, Kevin O'Day and Uwe Scholz. Old favorites by Hans van Manen and John Cranko will also be presented. The tour opens with performances tomorrow and Sunday at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, with other performances at the McCarter Theater in Princeton, N.J., (Jan. 10-11) and City Center in Manhattan (Jan. 19-22). Tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $12-$56. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark; (888) 466-5722 (Dunning).
 
SWEET MOVES: DANCE ON THE LOWER EAST SIDE, Work by eight choreographers and companies, chosen by Alyson Pou, will be performed in this three-hour showcase. Included are the companies of Jody Oberfelder, Yanira Castro, Yoshiko Chuma, Risa Jaroslow and Trajal Harrell. Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $12; $7 for students and the elderly. University Settlement, 184 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 674-9120, extension 183 (Dunning).
 
DOUG VARONE AND DANCERS. As part of a season of varied programs, Doug Varone offers five new and dramatically different dances. "Sleeping With Giants" tells of a man whose weaknesses are treated with disdain. "Tomorrow" is tender and lyrical. "Agora" choreographically evokes a serene setting for communal discussion and thought. "Polonaise No. 44" is a gently humorous duet. "Eclipse" begins in a seemingly abstract manner, then gradually builds emotional tension. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800. Tickets, $35 (Anderson).
 
"VAUDEVILLE 2000 -- MILKING THE MILLENNIUM." For this scrappy, good-naturedly funny show, the producer, Laraine Goodman, has assembled a cast of first-rate tap dancers who include the Young Hoofers, Tony Waag and Toes Tiranoff and performance artists like Ann Kilkelly, whose ukelele playing is a feast of deadpan hilarity. There is also a storytelling aerialist named Montana Miller, a Russian tap vaudevillian act called Sergei and Vasilli, and the Naughts, a chorus line composed of the performers Nada, Gatz, Zip, Bupkes, Zero, Zilch and Nil. The scenery trembles. The cut-and-paste props are inspired. If Ms. Goodman's 1998 vaudeville show is any guide, it will all be good, scrappy, nutty fun. Through Jan. 16. Thursdays through Saturdays at 10 p.m.; Sundays at 5 p.m. Tickets: $12; Theater Development Fund vouchers accepted. La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village (212) 475-7710 (Dunning).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carol Vaness sings the title role in "Tosca" at the Met tomorrow. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Gina Gibney dancers will appear Sunday at a benefit at Joyce SoHo. (Tom Brazil)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GILBERT (71%); METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); DANCE (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); TICKET SALES (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN HARRIS HARBISON (56%); DAWN UPSHAW (55%); JERRY HADLEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



167 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 30; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3371 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on Page 12.
 
Now Playing
 
* "AMERICAN MOVIE," featuring Mark Borchardt and friends. Directed by Chris Smith (R, 104 minutes). An insightful, funny, not-to-be-missed documentary about a no-budget Wisconsin filmmaker who makes a horror film as if his life depended on it. And as Mr. Smith so affectingly reveals, Mr. Borchardt's hopes really do hang in the balance. This knowing and often hilarious look at try-anything indie filmmaking becomes a moving portrait of one man's uphill struggle and finds Mr. Borchardt often describing success and prosperity as his goals. Meanwhile his own life is eloquently presented as a very different, no less authentic kind of American Dream (Janet Maslin). 

"ANNA AND THE KING," starring Jodie Foster and Chow Yun-Fat. Directed by Andy Tennant (PG-13, 140 minutes). The same story that inspired the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "The King and I" is the basis for this movie about the British schoolteacher Anna Leonowens (Ms. Foster), who travels to Bangkok in 1862 to educate the 58 children of King Mongkut (Mr. Chow). Although the story has been given a contemporary multicultural perspective that is critical of British imperialism, the picturesque film tells essentially the same story but without the beloved songs, which are badly missed. Ms. Foster's Anna is another of her nobler-than-thou ice queens, and Mr. Chow's king is authoritative but less than thunderous (Stephen Holden).
 
"BICENTENNIAL MAN," starring Robin Williams, Embeth Davidtz, Sam Neill and Oliver Platt. Directed by Chris Columbus (PG, 132 minutes). This year's gushy Christmas card from Robin Williams follows the 200-year quest of a household robot named Andrew to become human. Directed by the schmaltzmeister Chris Columbus, who steered this star through "Mrs. Doubtfire," the movie is a joke-strewn sentimental man-machine allegory determined to make us feel good about being human that is punctuated by corny speeches exalting freedom, the joys of sex and the mystery of mortality. Except for Mr. Williams, the acting is strictly of sitcom caliber (Holden).
 
* "DOGMA," starring Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Linda Fiorentino, Chris Rock and Salma Hayek. Directed by Kevin Smith (R, 130 minutes). Mr. Smith's idea of angels in America is the notion of two cool dudes who take a hair-splitting, legalese approach to Roman Catholic doctrine and think it would be amusing to nullify all existence. And nothing in this wildly brazen, unexpectedly devout comedy is any less outrageous than that. Mr. Smith again shows off a rare gift for fusing his comic-book sensibility with serious debates and big, big laughs, even if some parts of his film (Ms. Fiorentino's performance, Mr. Rock's and semi-repartee from the ubiquitous Jay and Silent Bob) work better than others (an excrement monster). Making a gutsy leap into matters of faith, Mr. Smith miraculously emerges with his humor intact and his wings unsinged (Maslin).
 
"DOUBLE JEOPARDY," starring Ashley Judd, Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Greenwood. Directed by Bruce Beresford (R, 106 minutes). In a touristy thriller that roams from the coastline of Washington State to the French Quarter of New Orleans, Ms. Judd plays a woman who is free to kill her husband because she has already gone to prison for the crime (see title). Not even she is beautiful enough to get away with rote acting and a far-fetched plot, but she perks up as her character becomes less of a victim. In this coed homage to "The Fugitive," Mr. Jones is on hand as another weathered sourpuss with a knack for barking orders. Mr. Beresford directs so unremarkably that it takes a line like "I feel like I've grown in the last six years" to signal the passage of time (Maslin).
 
* "EVEREST," directed by David Brashears with Greg MacGillivray (not rated; 45 minutes). If life in New York City doesn't provide enough in the way of thrills, those in search of a vicarious near-death experience can make their way to the American Musuem of Natural History (Central Park West at 79th Street) for a go at "Everest." There, images of the world's highest mountain -- 29,028 feet -- find a frame worthy of the peak's spectacular, lethal beauty. This account focuses mainly on the efforts of three people to scale the peak in 1996 despite yawning chasms of ever-shifting ice, thundering avalanches, the perils of air so thin that it addles the brain and sudden, blinding storms. While this expedition was on the mountain, other teams made their way into the so-called death zone, at 25,000 feet, where a violent storm overtook them. Eight people perished in the worst single disaster on the mountain. "Everest" makes it possible for armchair adventurers to share the risks and glory of the team's climb toward heaven (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
"FANTASIA/2000," with James Levine and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and introductions by Steve Martin, Bette Midler, Mr. Levine, Itzhak Perlman, James Earl Jones, Angela Lansbury, Quincy Jones and Penn and Teller. Various directors (G, 75 minutes). The new millennial version of Disney's 1940 groundbreaking fusion of animation and classical music includes seven new segments and keeps one from the original film (the wonderful "Sorcerer's Apprentice," starring Mickey Mouse). Despite the science-fiction title and the IMAX-size screen on which it's being shown, "Fantasia/2000" is more backward-looking than futuristic. The two best segments are "Rhapsody in Blue," a witty Manhattan-in-the-Jazz Age homage to the caricaturist Al Hirschfeld set to the music of George Gershwin, and the finale (set to Stravinsky's "Firebird Suite") in which a cometlike sprite whooshes around the globe explosively creating, destroying and renewing the planet's life forms. Movie star introductions lend the film the feel of a deluxe corporate promotion. At the Sony Imax Theater, Broadway at 68th Street,, Manhattan (Holden).
 
"FLAWLESS," starring Robert De Niro and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Written and directed by Joel Schumacher (R, 110 minutes). Mr. De Niro is a retired New York City policeman recovering from a stroke and Mr. Hoffman the drag queen upstairs who gives him speech therapy in the form of singing lessons in this stridently campy comedy. Their flashy performances can't add dimension to a movie that is a message-laden duet for two caricatures, a homophobe and the angry, self-loathing drag queen who gets him out of his depression (Holden).
 
"GALAXY QUEST," starring Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman. Directed by Dean Parisot (PG, 102 minutes). Whether you love "Star Trek" or laugh at it, your starship has come in, docking in the form of this amiable comedy that simultaneously manages to spoof these popular futuristic space adventures and replicate the very elements that have made them so durable. The film spins out of a single joke, about a bunch of washed-up actors from a canceled television series who are enlisted by some credulous interplanetary simpletons to champion them in a conflict with a scaly, bellicose villain who has all but exterminated their people. And soon they are off on a genuine space adventure. If "Galaxy Quest" never attains consistently giddy heights as it plays out its combination of knowing satire and heroic adventure, it nevertheless keeps its tongue firmly in its cheek, offers a few genuine laughs, moves swiftly, if not at warp speed, and is led by a talented cast (Van Gelder).
 
"HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL," starring Geoffrey Rush, Taye Diggs and Peter Gallagher. Directed by William Malone (R, 115 minutes). If the ever vigilant Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, is truly determined to snuff out inflation aborning, then he can do no better than to take sharpened pencil in hand, make his way to the nearest theater showing this film and strike fearlessly until its feeble pulse beats no more. This is a sorry reincarnation of the 1950's William Castle horror film in which an eccentric millionaire played by Vincent Price offered five strangers $10,000 each to spend the night in a spooky old mansion. In the new version the ante for survival has been raised to $1 million apiece. Even allowing for inflation in the 40 years since the original opened, the reward in 1999 should come to only $57,113.47, according to the Federal Reserve Bank in Minneapolis. But some things have not become devalued over the years: words like junk, for example. "Hill" was pronounced junk in these pages in 1959. And it is still junk (Van Gelder).
 
* "THE LIMEY," starring Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda. Directed by Steven Soderbergh (R, 89 minutes). From a director for whom the quirky stylistic exercise is standard style, this is a handsome throwback to the salad days of its two iconic stars. Mr. Stamp, in a stony, magnetic performance punctuated by flashbacks to his early career, plays an ex-con seeking revenge for the death of his daughter. He becomes the nemesis of Mr. Fonda's slick Hollywood hipster, another role that's piquantly tailor-made. Mr. Soderbergh resurrects the lean, hard-boiled look of John Boorman's "Point Blank" as he dissects and considers these two tough customers from every conceivable perspective (Maslin).
 
* "MANSFIELD PARK," starring Frances O'Connor and Jonny Lee Miller. Written and directed by Patricia Rozema (PG-13, 105 minutes). In Ms. Rozema's skillful screen adaptation of Jane Austen's third novel, the protagonist, Fanny Price (Ms. O'Connor), has been sharpened into a protofeminist heroine who triumphs over the materialist, patriarchal values of her wealthy relatives through a combination of wit, beauty and daring. Without bearing down too heavily, the screenplay (which incorporates fragments of Austen's letters and diaries) equates early 19th-century slave trading with the oppression of women. The message is leavened with smart humor and warm three-dimensional performances (Holden).
 
"THE MESSENGER: THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC," starring Milla Jovovich, John Malkovich, Tcheky Karyo and Faye Dunaway. Directed by Luc Besson (R, 130 minutes). The Hundred Years' War feels twice that long in this shrill, frenetic account of Joan of Arc. It's a film whose main revelation is that the Middle Ages may have been a lot more lurid than previously reported. Mr. Besson directs plenty of grisly, hand-held battle scenes and absurd scenes of royal scheming, while Ms. Jovovich talks. Like this. And doesn't seem faintly plausible as France's teenage martyr. Here's a case where "Don't shoot 'The Messenger' " would have been sound advice (Maslin).
 
"MUSIC OF THE HEART," starring Meryl Streep, Aidan Quinn, Angela Bassett and Gloria Estefan. Directed by Wes Craven (PG, 110 minutes). Not many of us enjoy being lectured by dressed-down Hollywood stars in gritty classroom situations. But the true story of Roberta Guaspari, a music teacher in East Harlem and a single mother surviving a nasty divorce, has been given a blunt, no-nonsense tone that works. Ms. Streep gives a down-to-earth performance that is sheer award bait. The story is inspirational enough to take Ms. Guaspari from no job prospects to watching her proud students play alongside Itzhak Perlman, Isaac Stern and other violin stars. Not a bad reason for Mr. Craven to have sidelined the claws and hatchets for a while (Maslin).
 
"ONEGIN," starring Ralph Fiennes, Liv Tyler and Martin Donovan. Directed by Martha Fiennes (not rated, 106 minutes). As the directorial debut of Mr. Fiennes's sister Martha, "Onegin" diminishes Pushkin's epic 19th-century novel "Eugene Onegin" into a cramped little soap opera whose two stars are painfully mismatched. While Mr. Fiennes acts up a fine storm as the arrogant, cynical title character who doesn't believe in love, Ms. Tyler, who plays his romantic nemesis, is an inert cipher. Somehow, even the grand ballrooms of 1820's St. Petersburg look drab and chintzy (Holden).
 
* "PRINCESS MONONOKE," with the voices of Billy Crudup, Claire Danes, Billy Bob Thornton and Minnie Driver. Directed by Hayao Miyazaki (PG-13, 133 minutes). A landmark feat of Japanese animation from the acknowledged master of the genre. This complicated, exotically beautiful epic features gods and demons locked in battle for the future of the forest, and its visions are breathtakingly rendered. But it is the film's stirring use of nature, myth and Japanese history that makes it so special. Worth seeing just for its Forest Spirit, which takes animal form by day and roams the night as a diaphanous, Godzilla-like divinity. The image of plants and flowers springing to life beneath his hooves is ravishingly presented. Despite a superb blend of hand-drawn cels and fluid, computer-generated animation, the film's look is gratifyingly understated (Maslin).
 
"ROSETTA," starring Emilie Dequenne. Directed by Luc and Jean-Pierre Dardenne (R, 90 minutes). This grim quasi-documentary, filmed with hand-held cameras (it's almost as jiggly as "The Blair Witch Project"), picked up the Palme d'Or (the top prize) at the Cannes Film Festival last year. Ms. Dequenne was also chosen best actress for her portrayal of a miserable 17-year-old Belgian girl living in a trailer camp with her alcoholic mother. Her desperate quest for a job and what she calls a "normal life" leads her to betray her only friend, who works at a waffle stand, by stealing his job. Unlike the Dardenne brothers' last film, "La Promesse," this movie's social realist angst feels contrived, and its main character never fully comes to life (Holden).
 
"THE SIXTH SENSE," starring Bruce Willis and Haley Joel Osment. Written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan (PG-13, 107 minutes). What starts out as a horror movie about a troubled 8-year-old boy (Mr. Osment) who claims to see dead people, and the child psychologist (Mr. Willis) determined to cure him, eventually turns into New Age mush (think "What Dreams May Come" and "Simon Birch"). When you trace the plot backward after its big secret is revealed, the story doesn't begin to add up. Mr. Willis gives his usual smirking one-note performance. What empathy the movie generates comes from Mr. Osment's intense portrayal of the tormented child (Holden).
 
"SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS," starring Ethan Hawke, James Cromwell and Max Von Sydow. Directed by Scott Hicks (PG-13, 130 minutes). This director's follow-up to "Shine" is the cinematic equivalent of an arty coffee-table book. It is so busy illustrating the story (with elaborate flashbacks and montage sequences) that it forgets to be dramatic. Set in the Pacific Northwest in 1950, the movie looks back to World War II and the charged relationships between Japanese-Americans and whites on an island north of the Puget Sound. Mr. Hawke is the brooding reporter covering the trial and Mr. Von Sydow the defense lawyer who is the film's official conscience. Robert Richardson is responsible for the gorgeous cinematography (Holden).
 
* "STUART LITTLE," starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie and Jonathan Lipnicki. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 92 minutes). E. B. White's 1945 children's classic has been adapted into a lovely family film about a little mouse (with the voice of Michael J. Fox) who is adopted by humans but runs afoul of their fluffy white Persian house cat, Snowbell (Nathan Lane). The movie creates an enchanted storybook version of New York and has what may be the most exciting toy boat race (in Central Park) ever filmed. Thanks to Mr. Lane's sly, wise-guy vocal impersonation, Snowbell nearly steals a movie that is funny and sweet but never cloying (Holden).
 
"THREE KINGS," starring George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg and Ice Cube. Written and directed by David O. Russell (R, 105 minutes). The prodigiously talented writer-director of "Spanking the Monkey" and "Flirting With Disaster" has made a much more ambitious film, with mixed results. His gimlet-eyed Persian Gulf war film has a "Catch-22" absurdist edge, but it also has an oversupply of visual affectations. Vertiginous music-video camera tricks jazz up the straightforward story of American soldiers who have larcenous designs on Saddam Hussein's captured gold and then develop conscience pangs about their own roles in Iraq. There are many clever peripheral touches, but there's something tamely conventional at the film's core (Maslin).
 
* "TOY STORY 2," with the voices of Tom Hanks and Tim Allen. Directed by John Lasseter; a Pixar Animated Studios film (G, 98 minutes). A wonderfully playful sequel, sustaining the first film's wit and novelty while bringing new sophistication to computer-generated animation. And here is welcome proof that Hollywood can still make movies to please audiences of any age or persuasion. From its opening (a perfectly adorable "Star Wars" parody) to its Capraesque conclusion, this is seamless work with more metaphorical cleverness than that usually found in the toy bin. Colorful new characters and more adventurous action enhance the story of how Woody falls into the clutches of a sleazy toy dealer, experiences new-found celebrity and needs to be rescued by his fabulous old friends (Maslin).
 
* "THE WAR ZONE," starring Freddie Cunliffe, Ray Winstone, Tilda Swinton and Lara Belmont. Directed by Tim Roth (not rated, 99 minutes). Mr. Roth is an actor known for roles in tough films, but never for anything quite as raw as this. In this searing first feature, the title battlefield is a rural English home where a teenage boy looks upon his own family with helpless rage and astonishment. Sensing the incestuous relationship between his father and older sister, the film's wordless, baleful young hero struggles to come to terms with this household horror. Understated but extremely graphic at times, and shot with mournfully expressive simplicity by Seamus McGarvey (Maslin).
 
"THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH," starring Pierce Brosnan, Sophie Marceau, Dame Judi Dench, Robert Carlyle and Denise Richards. Directed by Michael Apted (PG-13, 128 minutes). This director is much admired for his "Up" series chronicling the lives of former schoolchildren as they mature. And he has managed to make James Bond grow up a little, too. Mr. Brosnan has become much more comfortable with the role of Bond, and most of the other characters are also more interesting than might have been expected. Ms. Marceau slinks memorably through the role of a treacherous oil heiress. Ms. Richards seemed a lot smarter playing high school vixens than she does as a brilliant scientist here. The itinerary roams from Scotland to Central Asia. And Mr. Apted handles the action as well as he does the talk (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
"WRITTEN BY ROBERT RISKIN." Flash back to the old Hollywood. Envision a man wearing silk pajamas while seated at a table on his lawn, writing scripts on an Underwood typewriter. His name is Robert Riskin. He collaborated on 13 films with Frank Capra, including "It Happened One Night" (1934), which won him an Oscar; "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town" (1936); and "Platinum Blonde," (1931) with Jean Harlow and Loretta Young. Riskin (1897-1955) specialized in colorful characters, fast-paced plots and snappy dialogue. Beginning today, he will be the subject of a weeklong retrospective of a dozen films that concludes Film Forum's 75-film Columbia Pictures 75th anniversary celebration. The opening attraction is a double bill of "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town" and "It Happened One Night," and at the 7:05 p.m. screening of "Mr. Deeds," the Writers Guild of America will pay special tribute to Riskin with a panel that includes the columnist Sidney Zion, the historian Foster Hirsch, the screenwriter Walter Bernstein and the actress Fay Wray, who married Riskin in 1942. The moderator is John Martello, the Players Club executive director. The series continues through Jan. 13 at Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, in the South Village. Tickets: $9; $5 for members. Information: (212) 727-8110 (Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adapting to life in a Manhattan brownstone: The hero of "Stuart Little" (voice by Michael J. Fox). (Sony Pictures Imageworks); Rising to the challenge: Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver in a scene from "Galaxy Quest." (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); THAILAND (74%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); THAILAND (74%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); HORROR FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (71%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: CHRIS SMITH (79%); MATT DAMON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



168 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: It's Boring. It's Ignored. Maybe It's a Good Investment, Too.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
MAY you live in interesting times.
So goes the ancient Chinese curse. And these days the stock market is nothing if not interesting. Internet stocks double within days, then lose most of the gains within a few more. The Nasdaq composite index has hundred-point swings within minutes. 
 When a show is providing a thrill a minute, there is a risk that the competing act down the block will be ignored. That is what has happened to the least risky -- and therefore least exciting -- investment around. As cash flooded into Nasdaq stocks, nobody seemed interested in a boring investment that can't lose money, but that has only a limited upside. So it kept getting cheaper.
The competing investment is inflation-indexed bonds. They are not very exciting, and, to tell the truth, they have not been very good investments in the three years during which they have been available. Inflation has been quiet, and interest in the bond, never high, has declined.
As a result, the real yield on such bonds -- the amount a holder gets in addition to the increase in the Consumer Price Index -- has risen to 4.39 percent, half a percentage point higher than the yield last spring.
That is about what the yield is expected to be when the Treasury auctions a new issue of 10-year inflation-indexed bonds on Wednesday. Buy one, and you will get a coupon payment of that amount that will rise with inflation. And when the bond matures, the principal you get back will be increased to reflect all the inflation there was during the life of the bond.
By any historical standard, 4.3 percent is an extraordinary real return on a safe investment, and it is not easy to explain why it is available. Inflation-indexed bonds in other countries -- Canada, Britain, France and Australia offer them -- used to offer higher yields than the American bonds. Now the situation is reversed. Perhaps it indicates a strong demand for capital in this country, which pushes real rates higher.
But mostly it reflects the fact that there is little fear of either inflation or bear markets. "Investors are expecting great things from the equity markets, so inflation-indexed bonds have to have higher yields," says Dan Bernstein, the director of research at Bridgewater Associates, a money management firm.
In the three years that such bonds have been available, the public interest in them has gone from moderate to something close to nonexistent.
This week's stock market volatility is not all that greater than the volatility at peak points last year. That volatility did not scare investors away from speculative stocks, and this turmoil may not either. Many investors see all stock market declines as buying opportunities.
But it will be interesting to see if individual investor demand for inflation-indexed bonds does rise at next week's auction. For there are basically two ways to use historical patterns in making investment decisions. One way is to assume that Mr. Market, as Warren E. Buffett likes to say, sometimes offers things cheap and sometimes offers them dear, and good investors buy them when they are cheap. By that standard, these bonds are very attractive.
The other way is to go with the theory that stocks have been proved to be the best long-term investment, period, and that there is no need to worry about things like valuation or the risk of losing money over the long term. Those who subscribe to that theory no doubt will ignore this auction. Time will tell which view was the more profitable one.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the real yield of the inflation indexed bond due 2009. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGEWATER ASSOCIATES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); AUCTIONS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



169 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Goldman and Kyocera Said to Be Starting Japan Investment Fund

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 6

 BODY:
The Goldman Sachs Group and the Kyocera Corporation, the world's largest maker of ceramic packages as well as a substantial force in the mobile telephone business, are expected to announce Friday that they will collaborate in an investment fund to take stakes in Japanese companies.
The fund will combine Goldman's expertise in using its own capital to make investments and Kyocera's deep pockets and entree to the clubby world of Japanese business. 
 Representatives of Kyocera and Goldman declined to comment. People connected to the collaboration, however, confirmed a story in today's Nihon Keizai Shimbun, which said the fund's size was $385 million.
Private investors have been active in Asia since the region's economic crisis hit two years ago, but until recently, Japan had remained relatively aloof to their advances.
Now, though, as old barriers to entry fall to deregulation and as companies once financed by bank loans find themselves struggling to tap other sources of capital, more companies are taking a second look at foreign direct investment.
Direct investment by foreign companies and investors hit a record 1.34 trillion yen, or about $12.9 billion, in the fiscal year that ended March 31, small by global standards but still seen as indicative of the potential here. That was a 97 percent increase over the previous year.
And foreign direct investment into Japan in the first six months of the current fiscal year nearly equaled the total investment for all of fiscal 1998, at 1.33 trillion yen. Ripplewood, a private equity firm, is in the final stages of completing its deal to buy the bankrupt Long-Term Credit Bank from the government, the largest such deal so far.
But there have been smaller deals taking place. Last week, Olympus Capital Holdings Asia, a $250 million private equity fund established in 1997 to make investments in Asia, bought half of Tomen Mediacom, a group of five cable television companies that serve roughly one million households in Tokyo.
"I think there's a role for private equity in Japan now," said Lawrence S. K. Miao, one of Olympus's founding partners. "The Japanese like to have partners who are committed for the long term, and in that sense, private equity investors are more attractive than institutions that simply raise capital."
Goldman's proprietary investment activities, which include investments in Kookmin Bank in South Korea, luxury hotels in Asia and several high-technology ventures in the United States and Europe, generated $950 million in revenue after interest expenses last year.
Kyocera is a longtime Goldman client. Most recently, Goldman was adviser to the DDI Corporation, Japan's second-largest long-distance telephone service operator, on the merger announced last month with the KDD Corporation and the IDO Corporation. Kyocera will be the largest shareholder of the combined company with a 15.8 percent stake.
"Working with people you know and who know you is an enormous benefit in Japan," Mr. Miao said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (95%); KYO (NYSE) (95%); 6971 (TSE) (95%); 9433 (TSE) (86%); KB (NYSE) (62%); 105560 (KSE) (62%); VIAS (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (86%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (62%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3672 PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS (60%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (68%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (GS); KYOCERA CORP (KYO) GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (95%); KYOCERA CORP (95%); KDDI CORP (86%); KB FINANCIAL GROUP INC (62%); VIASYSTEMS GROUP INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (GS); KYOCERA CORP (KYO)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: JAPAN; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MERGERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



170 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Slower Sales Of New Homes In November

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Consumers bought new homes in November at a slower-than-expected pace and the number of Americans filing jobless claims rose, the government said today, offering signs the economy may have begun to slow.
The Commerce Department said the number of new single-family homes sold in November fell 7.1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 865,000 units, compared with a 931,000-unit pace in October. The October rate was revised down sharply from a previously reported pace of 986,000 units. 
 The 7.1 percent decline was the largest since an 8 percent fall in December 1997.
"While a home sales rate of 865,000 is still very strong on a historical basis, it is off over 12 percent from November 1998," Joel Naroff, an economic consultant, said.
The data helped soothe financial markets, and the 30-year Treasury bond and the Dow Jones industrial average ended higher. But the technology-laden Nasdaq index dropped sharply as investors continued to take profits.
In mid-November, the Federal Reserve increased interest rates for the third time last year in an effort to cool the robust economy and head off potential inflationary pressures.
The Fed's moves helped push the interest rate on the average 30-year mortgage close to 8 percent, a full percentage point above levels a year earlier.
But despite the slackening home sales pace, there was one worrisome aspect to the report: rising house prices. The median home price rose to a record $167,400 in November from $159,000 in October while the average home price rose to a record $209,700 from $201,300 in October, an indication that Americans were still buying luxury homes.
Separately, the Labor Department reported the number of newly unemployed Americans filing for state benefits jumped by 33,000 last week, the largest one-week rise in a year.
Initial jobless claims, which are viewed as an early indication of the strength of the labor market, rose to 309,000 in the holiday-shortened week ended Jan. 1.
That was much steeper than the 280,000 expected by Wall Street.
Sales of new homes slowed in all areas of the country, most notably the Northeast, where sales plunged 31.5 percent to an annual pace of 50,000 units from a 73,000-unit pace in October.
Sales slowed 7.8 percent in the Midwest, fell 5.4 percent in the West and dropped 3.1 percent in the South.

 
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); INFLATION (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BONDS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



171 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
United takes a warmer, fuzzier course after a campaign unsettles customers and employees.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
MAJOR new campaign for United Airlines, replacing a contentious recent series of advertisements carrying the theme "Rising," has no theme. But if there were one, it might proclaim "United we stand, divided we fall."
Of course, "fall" is not quite the type of word fliers want to see invoked in airline advertising. But as it turned out, "Rising," as in rising above the difficulties that vex customers, was not a word they -- or United's almost 100,000 employees -- welcomed either. 
 The reason? "Rising" took a nontraditional approach to convince customers that United was tackling the travails of travel, detailing the problems as well as the solutions. But, according to executives at United, part of the UAL Corporation, and at Fallon McElligott in Minneapolis, the United agency, that only reminded passengers how unfriendly the skies can get and put off employees who felt they were being chastised for lost luggage or delayed flights.
So after almost three years of "Rising," which was abruptly curtailed in October while Fallon McElligott explored other ideas, United is bringing out a feel-good campaign centered on its name: "Be United," "Worlds United," "Feel United."
The warmly emotional appeals, underscored by reprises of "Rhapsody in Blue" and reassuring words from the actor Liam Neeson, evoke the pitches that epitomized United during the days when the carrier and its previous agency, the Leo Burnett unit of the Leo Group, promised perfection to those who chose to "Fly the friendly skies."
The switch in strategies, which begins tomorrow on television and Monday in poster-style newspaper advertisements, is emblematic of the midcourse corrections that marketers must make when they realize their decisions to take different directions in advertising require rethinking. Sometimes, it seems in this instance, you have to leave home to learn there was, all together now, no place like home.
"We've got to get back to the heart of United, some of our roots, what makes us unique," John D. Kiker, vice president for advertising and corporate communications for United in Chicago, said in an interview yesterday as he presented a preview of the campaign.
"In all honesty, senior management's opinion is that 'Rising' did us a lot of good," he added. "It was interesting, intriguing and made us focus on what we had to fix. But employees felt it laid a lot of blame on them and that was unfortunate."
Another shortfall came, Mr. Kiker said, when research determined that "Rising" was believed to "be talking to 'road warriors' and global travelers, the people in the front of the plane; we gave the agency the challenge to be more inclusive, to talk to all our passengers."
The result was the new campaign, which Mr. Kiker characterized as striving to portray the airline as "United to create a better journey." The budget for the ads domestically in 2000 was estimated at around the $80 million spent in 1999. United spends another $40 million or so on campaigns abroad, which are created by offices of Young & Rubicam Advertising in New York; that agency's new work is due in March or April.
"A client once told me, 'A brand is the sum of everything it's been,' and those are wise words," said David Lubars, president and creative director at Fallon McElligott, which landed the United account when United stunned Madison Avenue by dismissing Burnett in 1996 after 31 years.
"We went back to the core values that are relevant today," Mr. Lubars said. " 'Friendly skies' was meant back then to have people feel comfortable about going up in the air. Now people are more concerned about efficiency, achieving what needs to be done.
"But what's as relevant now as it was to the guys who started United is that it's all about uniting people," he added. "Others can say they bring you together, they connect you, but it's not in their name."
On TV, the theme is brought to life in one spot by Mr. Neeson's narration of scenes of people from Japan to New Orleans to Spain gathering in courtyards, plazas and squares: "Why is it that every city, every town, every neighborhood, no matter where you are in the world, has something in common? A place for people to come together. It's quite simple. Humans are a social bunch. That's why we fly more places than anyone else. Because it's important for the human race to stay United."
That spot, and a second one centered on the fast pace of contemporary life, both end with heroic shots of United pilots flying their planes through skies that look even more majestic, if that's possible, than Burnett made them appear during the "Friendly" decades.
"For an airline to say it's time for us as an industry to do better for our customers was a controversial point of view to take," said Eric Block, general manager at Fallon McElligott. "Much of 'Rising' focused on better flights, better seats, better meals.
"But the comments that the employees felt undue pressure were fair because when you raise the ante, say 'We have to do better,' that puts the pressure on," he added.
"A new management team at United feels it's important now to focus on why our improvements are better than our competitors' and on how United cares about its customers and its people," Mr. Block said. "We'll continue to talk about the planes we fly, such as Economy Plus, taking seats out to give more room to our best customers in coach, but in the context of what's true to the soul of this brand."
How the new campaign fares is crucial for Fallon McElligott, still stinging from the failure of a midcourse correction on ads for another high-profile account, Miller Lite beer; that client, the Miller Brewing Company unit of the Philip Morris Companies, deemed the agency's revampings ineffective and the account was lost to the New York office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of the WPP Group.
"We're very confident about Fallon," Mr. Kiker said. "They understand the business, they understand the category and they're putting 110 percent into this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new United Airlines campaign is a bit of brand burnishing offering global-village imagery.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (58%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING AIRLINES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



172 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Equities' FallSpurs Buying Of Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose modestly yesterday, up for the second time in three days as a downturn in overseas stock markets and expectations of further losses in the United States equity market encouraged traders to buy fixed-income securities.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond increased 23/32 to 94 12/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.56 percent from 6.62 percent on Wednesday. 
 Market analysts, however, said investor expectations of further interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve Board had limited the day's price gains. The central bank's monetary policy committee is expected to raise rates by at least 25 basis points, or one-quarter of a percentage point, at the conclusion of its two-day meeting on Feb. 1 and 2.
"Basically the market has priced in a Fed move and given the central bank a green light to raise short-term rates," said Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and director of the fixed-income department at the J. W. Genesis Financial Corporation in Boca Raton, Fla. "It now becomes a question of how much of an increase the Fed is planning."
Few expected the market to mount any significant rally, particularly ahead of today's employment report. Bonds found some support yesterday from the weekly jobless claims report issued by the Labor Department, which said claims rose by a more-than-expected 33,000 last week, to 309,000. The number was well above the increase of 12,000 that was anticipated, indicating the labor market's tightness may be easing, potentially reducing pressures on wages.
"Activity was thin and any uptick today is not justifiable until we see the jobs report on Friday," Mr. Pugliese said.
Traders said the market had already priced in strong numbers in the jobs report and probably would not go much lower unless today's numbers prove far stronger than expected. The report is expected to show the economy added 250,000 new payroll jobs in December, with the unemployment rate remaining at 4.1 percent. The average hourly earnings are expected to rise 0.3 percent.
Yesterday, the market got both good news and bad news in the home sales data. "The positive implication was the decline in home sales for November and the very sharp downward revision to the statistics for October," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. The bad news, she said, was the sharp increases reported in home prices on both a monthly and a year-to-year basis.
Late in the day Treasuries also rose from market talk that the Treasury would release details of its buyback program and would increase the number of callable issues.
Elsewhere, the World Bank said it would sell $3 billion in debt securities in what would be the first global electronic bond offering to be sold, distributed and traded online. Lead managers will be Goldman, Sachs & Company and Lehman Brothers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (68%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DEBT FINANCING (77%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (63%); 

PERSON: ROBERT PUGLIESE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



173 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Investors Flee Technology; Dow Rises and Nasdaq Falls

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Investors accelerated their shift from high technology into less expensive smokestack and consumer stocks yesterday as the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq market moved in opposite directions for the third time this week.
The Nasdaq composite suffered a midafternoon swoon and finished 150.41 points, or 3.88 percent, lower at 3,727.13, bringing its loss since Monday's record close to 9.8 percent. A decline of 10 percent in any stock gauge is widely regarded as a correction. 
 Then, after normal trading hours, prices of many of Nasdaq's high-fliers slumped further when Lucent Technologies, the maker of telephone equipment, warned that profits and sales would be well below estimates.
Paced by an 8-point gain in Minnesota Mining, to 100 1/4, the Dow Jones industrials rose 130.61 points, or 1.17 percent, to 11,253.26. That was 2.1 percent below its Dec. 31 record. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.34 points, to 1,403.45.
"There is a very pronounced rotation" into stocks like DuPont, Caterpillar and Exxon Mobil, said Donna Van Vlack, head trader at Brandywine Asset Management in Wilmington, Del., which invests in such issues. As for computer-related stocks, she added, "it seems everybody is headed for the same exit."
Despite the swing from high technology into blue-chip standbys -- some money also moved into bonds, pushing interest rates down -- analysts noted that various calendar-related factors were at work and that the selloff in technology might prove little more than a normal pullback after a giant increase in 1999.
"If you're going to ride this horse you have to realize there's a lot of bucking in this group," said Andrew M. Brooks, head of stock trading at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore.
Among the seasonal crosscurrents were investors taking profits this year instead of last year to defer capital gains taxes, and the usual January inflow of pension and bonus money and reinvested dividends.
Still, analysts said the warning by Lucent -- which plunged as low as 53 after its warning, compared with 69 at the close and 73 3/16 at its best level of the day -- made them nervous as they awaited the government's report this morning on the nation's job market in December.
A big jump in jobs or a decline in the unemployment rate, already at its lowest in three decades, would add to the pressure on the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again. Fed policy makers, who are to convene the first two days of February, are already expected to raise the short-term rate target, 5.5 percent since mid-November, by at least one-quarter of a point.
"The interest rate rise is cause for concern," said Alex Meitzner, chairman of Ranson & Associates in Wichita, Kan., which runs a mutual fund indexed to the Nasdaq 100. But he pointed to financial history in contending that a correction in technology stocks from "not sustainable" levels would probably be limited to 15 percent.
"We've had several pretty dramatic corrections and it's always come back," Mr. Meitzner said of this group. "It's pretty resilient."
Trading remained heavy, with 1.6 billion shares changing hands on Nasdaq, the seventh busiest on record, and 1.1 billion on the New York Stock Exchange.
Japan and Europe set a negative tone, with the main London index down 1.4 percent, Frankfurt and Paris lower by fractions of 1 percent and Hong Kong and Tokyo down 4.4 percent and 2 percent, respectively.
Joining Minnesota Mining among the Dow's biggest gainers were Procter & Gamble, which was raised to a strong buy from accumulate by Prudential Securities, Exxon Mobil and J. P. Morgan, all up more than 4 points. In contrast, the three biggest drags were all technology companies. Intel was down 4 7/8, to 78 3/4, Microsoft, 31 3/16, to 110, and Hewlett-Packard, 4 5/8, to 103 1/4, but as low as 101 after the Lucent warning.
Brokerage stocks gained, aided by strong earnings at Lehman Brothers, which added 2 15/16, to 72 7/8. Goldman Sachs surged 3 3/8, to 82 1/4, and Merrill Lynch 2 3/4, to 76 3/8. Citigroup rose 3 5/8, to 54 1/4, and Bank of America 315 3/16, to 49 3/8.
Utility stocks gained, though not as much as on Wednesday, as did drug shares and such gritty sectors as chemicals and railroads. Union Pacific, Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Kansas City Southern each advanced more than 2 points.
Tiffany fell 3 1/4, to 77, despite reporting exceptionally strong holiday sales, while AnnTaylor Stores fell 6, to 24, after reporting a slim sales gain that failed to meet some estimates.
More Big Board stocks rose than fell, 1,971 to 1,161, but new 52-week lows again surpassed new highs, 77 to 45.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (84%); ALU (NYSE) (84%); ALU (BIT) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (76%); DELAWARE, USA (75%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); BRANDYWINE GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); DELAWARE, USA (75%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); HORSES (71%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (70%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



174 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Push Through 40% Raises Of Their Own

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 6

 BODY:
New Jersey lawmakers agreed to give themselves a 40 percent raise as part of a package of salary increases for a host of government officials and state judges that was hurriedly approved today by budget committees in the Senate and Assembly.
The raises are expected to be adopted on Monday, the last day of the 208th Legislature's session.
The pay package, agreed upon this week by leaders of both houses and Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, would raise legislators' salaries to $49,000 a year, from $35,000. New Jersey lawmakers hold other jobs, but they say they work an average of 35 hours per week on legislative business. 
 Senators and assemblymen have not had a pay increase since 1990. Even if approved by the full body, the salaries will not go into effect until 2002, because of a rule requiring lawmakers to stand for election between voting for a raise and getting it.
The governor's authorized salary would rise, also in 2002, to $175,000 from $130,000, a 35 percent increase, although Mrs. Whitman has accepted only $85,000 a year since taking office in 1994.
The pay package was hustled through the two budget committees in short order, with no advance notice. The bill was added to the Senate Appropriations Committee's agenda 15 minutes after the scheduled start of its meeting, and was passed unanimously after less than a half-hour of testimony and discussion.
In the Assembly committee, 11 members voted for the raise and three against it, one member abstained, and one left his seat in the chamber shortly before the bill was called, missing the vote.
The bill would also create a permanent Public Officers Salary Review Commission that would meet every four years, therefore avoiding another 12-year pay freeze and the resulting need for a huge raise in one step. Some lawmakers had pressed to index their pay to inflation to avoid "falling into the same trap again," as Assemblyman Steven J. Corodemus, a Republican of West Long Branch, put it.
The bill approved today differs notably from the special commission's recommendations in that, at Governor Whitman's insistence, the increases for her cabinet members and for judges, county prosecutors and members of the Casino Control Commission and the Board of Public Utilities would be granted in three phases. For example, Superior Court judges, who now earn $115,000, would receive $133,330 this year, $137,165 in 2001, and $141,000 in 2002.
"The governor felt that an immediate jump to $141,000 was excessive," said Peter J. McDonough Jr., a spokesman for the governor. He said the $133,000 salary level would amount to a cost-of-living increase for the judges since their last raise, in 1994.
All told, the increases will add no more than $14.1 million to the state's budget, said Richard H. Bagger, chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITIES OF KANSAS CITY (51%); ASSEMBLY APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSEMBLY APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JUDGES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (63%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



175 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: A Bidding War for Teachers Spreads From Coast to Coast

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, only hours after Gov. George E. Pataki asked lawmakers to subsidize tuition for college students who commit to teach in selected New York public schools, Gov. Gray Davis of California addressed the Legislature in Sacramento with what, in effect, amounted to a more lucrative counteroffer.
California, Governor Davis proposed, should offer candidates who agree to teach in low-performing schools $10,000 loans for buying a home, $30,000 bonuses for attaining advanced certification and $11,000 to repay college loans. 
 But even before such incentives can be proffered, the two states -- neither of which apparently had any idea what the other was planning -- face heavy competition across the country in their efforts to woo prospective teachers and to keep good ones from fleeing to other states or professions.
"It's a bidding war," said Richard Mills, the state education commissioner in New York. "And you can't recruit with rhetoric."
Two years ago, as the nation began to feel the effects of a virtually unprecedented wave of teacher retirements, Baltimore offered to badly needed special education teachers starting salaries equivalent to those of teachers with four years' experience, as well as reduced-rate mortgages and reimbursement of moving expenses. During the same period, El Paso, Tex., lured new math teachers with $2,000 signing bonuses, which it was forced to do after Dallas began a similar effort.
Such offers have multiplied and intensified in recent months: at least 20 states -- including Florida, Georgia, Mississippi and Massachusetts -- have begun to pay bonuses of up to $6,000 a year, sometimes for several years, to teachers who pass a new, rigorous national certification test.
New York has traditionally had difficulty keeping pace. The state is among several that produce thousands of new teachers a year who choose, often for reasons of quality of academic life or salary, to teach outside the state.
Of the 21,000 students who graduated with teaching certificates from New York colleges and universities last year, fewer than 7,000 took teaching jobs in New York, according to Carl Hayden, the chancellor of the Board of Regents. This movement is happening at a time when the city alone is seeking to replace nearly 10,000 teachers who have temporary licenses.
Several factors are driving the proposals by New York, California and the other states.
With tens of thousands of teachers, many of them born in the first years of the baby boom, becoming eligible for retirement, the nation must recruit and hire two million new teachers in less than a decade. There is also a national effort, much of it subsidized by the federal government, to reduce class sizes, particularly in burgeoning urban school districts.
Meanwhile, the demand for highly skilled teachers has, arguably, never been greater: new high-stakes tests often link a teacher's job evaluation to student performance, and new state standards, written or in place in every state but Iowa, seek to outline what teachers should be teaching, and when.
The need for good teachers has also been affected by the persistence of flush times, making education more of a public concern than the economy is. Voters have told pollsters, for example, that improving education is among their greatest priorities.
And the growth in technology jobs and other employment tied to the Internet has further sapped the ranks of potential science teachers, among others.
Moreover, Mr. Mills and Mr. Hayden said that women, once the backbone of the nation's teaching force, now can seek out opportunities in more lucrative fields once closed to them.
Still, for all the perks states are offering teachers, few politicians have been willing to take the far more costly step of increasing teachers' salaries permanently and across the board.
"These are all good things," said Sandra Feldman, a former New York City elementary school teacher who is president of the American Federation of Teachers, the nation's second-largest teachers union. "But ultimately the salaries will have to be raised. You are talking about a need for 250,000 teachers a year for the next 10 years. You are talking about a full-employment economy where knowledge workers are in great demand. It's going to take a significant increase in base salaries to attract the educated people we need to become teachers."
According to figures provided by the union, the average beginning teacher's salary nationally, at the start of the 1998 school year, was $25,735. That compared with $42,862 for beginning engineers, $40,920 for new computer scientists and $33,702 for accountants.
The gap between teachers and those other professions typically widens with each year of experience.
One of the few officials who has stepped forward to advocate boosting teachers' base pay is Vice President Al Gore, who said that if elected president, he would propose federally financed salary increases of up to $10,000 for veteran teachers willing to serve in the nation's poorest districts.
Governor Pataki's proposal, which came in his sixth annual address to the Legislature, would provide an annual tuition subsidy of $3,400 -- enough to cover full tuition at a state university for a state resident, or to reduce the much higher tuition at private schools -- to those college students who promise to teach for at least four years in those New York public schools with teacher shortages. Most of the teachers, presumably, would be placed in New York City, though few details have been worked out.
The Pataki administration estimated that the proposal would cost the state $25 million a year, and attract perhaps 50,000 new teachers over the next 10 years. New York City is expected to lose more than half that number, most to retirement, over that period.
Mr. Pataki, a Republican, also said the state should pay for more than 9,000 uncertified teachers to take the courses they need to become licensed teachers.
The sweeteners proposed by Governor Davis of California, a Democrat, would be even more generous.
Teachers would be eligible for $10,000 home loans that would be forgiven after they teach in the state's public schools for five years. Those who teach in schools ranked in the lower half in the state would also have $11,000 in college loans forgiven if they stay in such schools for five years.
And $30,000 bonuses would be awarded to California teachers who work in low-performing schools and who take the courses and pass the tests required to be certified by the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, a nonprofit organization that seeks to make the criteria for good teachers uniform across the country.
Governor Davis did not specify the cost of those proposals, but said he hoped to devote a significant portion of an expected $3 billion budget surplus to education.
"To our youth, let me say, there is no higher calling, no greater public service, no contribution more valued than to join the front lines of the future in the classroom," Governor Davis said. "This is our generation's call to arms." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); EL PASO, TX, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (91%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); EL PASO, TX, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (88%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BONUS PAY (76%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



176 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
India Presses Accusations Of Pakistan in Hijacking
India intensified its efforts to blame Pakistan for the Indian Airlines hijacking, announcing that four accomplices had been seized in Bombay and that they had identified the five hijackers as Pakistanis and had acknowledged official Pakistani sponsorship of the hijacking. A1
 
New Rebel Tactic in Chechnya
The Russian military is facing a new threat in Chechnya -- raids in rear areas supposedly controlled by Russian forces. A1 

Israel-Syria Talks Pick Up
President Clinton spent a third day coaxing Israel and Syria toward the framework of a peace accord, with American officials reporting that the pace of talks had picked up. A11
 
Russian Visits Holy Land
Boris N. Yeltsin was treated like the head of state he so recently was during his first pilgrimage to the Holy Land, meeting with Israeli President Ezer Weizman and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. A11
 
Beijing Church Defies Vatican
China's state-sanctioned Catholic Church consecrated five new bishops. The Vatican said the move would damage efforts to mend relations between Rome and Beijing. A3
 
Buddhist Leader Flees Tibet
One of Himalayan Buddhism's most important lamas, the 14-year-old head of the Karmapa Buddhist order, escaped Chinese-controlled Tibet and made his way to India. A3
 
Rumblings in Ivory Coast
Rumors of gunfire spread panic through Abidjan, the center of commerce, less than two weeks after a former army chief, Gen. Robert Guei, seized power in a coup. A8
 
Japan Paper Bans Racy Ads
The biggest newspaper in Japan, Yomiuri Shimbun, will ban advertising for two racy magazines, saying they constitute and encourage sexual harassment. A6
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
Democrats' Rile Officers With Statements on Gays
Gen. Charles C. Krulak, a former Marine Corps commandant, and other former service chiefs expressed disapproval of the strong endorsements by Vice President Al Gore and Bill Bradley of homosexuals serving openly in the military and the tying of that policy to the selection process for the joint chiefs of staff. A1
 
Gen. Colin L. Powell told Mr. Gore in a letter that he had been "disappointed and offended" by an aide's assertions that Republicans had no interest in helping black children. A14
 
Republican Presidential Debate
Gov. George W. Bush unequivocally pledged never to raise taxes and promised to cut them. In a debate among six contenders, Mr. Bush and Senator John McCain sparred aggressively over prescriptions for campaign finance and taxes. A15
 
G.O.P.'s Agenda in the House
House Republican leaders announced a cautious, election-year agenda that relies on growing budget surpluses to pay for modest tax cuts, reduce the national debt and shield Social Security's surplus. A16
 
Pentagon Offers an Incentive
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said next year's Pentagon budget would include a $160 million increase in housing allowances for military members who live off base. A16
 
Protest of Ruling on Cuban Boy
Demonstrators shut down much of Miami with protests against the administration's decision to return Elian Gonzalez to Cuba. A12
 
Access to Secrets Is Sought
Lawyers for Wen Ho Lee asked a federal court to ease restrictions on access to classified information as they prepare a defense against charges of mishandling nuclear secrets. A12
 
Airline Delays in East
An air traffic control computer's failure affected thousands of travelers in the East by delaying departures for up to two hours. A12
 
Florida Abandons Electrocution
The Legislature voted to replace the electric chair with lethal injection and then moved to consider racial justice and the death penalty. A13
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Mayor and Governor Offer Plan for Governors Island
Mayor Giuliani and Governor Pataki said they had agreed on a development plan for Governors Island that includes ball fields and tennis courts, small museums for art, ecology and military history, an inexpensive motel and some artists' studios. Most of the biggest and most impressive buildings on the historic island would be used as a conference center. B1
 
Precinct Numbers Are Suspect
Police officials said they had an explanation for the rise in crime in the 88th Precinct in Brooklyn: A former commander there had underreported serious crimes in 1998. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B5
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Theories on Martian Loss
The $165 million Mars Polar Lander may have fallen into a big canyon near its planned landing site, NASA officials said, though they did not rule out many other possibilities. A12
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Psychological Testing Ordered
Officials ordered psychological testing for the Atlanta pitcher John Rocker before deciding if he should be disciplined for disparaging remarks about gays and minorities. D1
 
OBITUARIES A16-17
 
Patrick O'Brian
The Anglo-Irish novelist who gained renown for tales of the British navy in the Napoleonic Wars was 85. A16
 
Adam Yarmolinsky
One of the McNamara "whiz kids" who reorganized the Pentagon and who was the architect of many poverty programs under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, he was 77. A17
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Accounting Firm Inquiry
The S.E.C. said most partners of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the world's largest accounting firm, had violated rules requiring that they not have investments in companies audited by the firm. Five partners have been dismissed as a result. A1
 
Warning From Lucent
Lucent Technologies, the telephone equipment maker, said after the market's close that its first-quarter sales and earnings would fall well short of analysts' expectations. C1
 
Moving Away From Technology
The Nasdaq lost 150.41 points, or 3.9 percent, to 3,727.13, bringing its loss since Monday's record close to 9.8 percent. A decline of 10 percent in any stock gauge is widely regarded as a correction. But the Dow rose 130.61 points, or 1.17 percent, to 11,253.26, and the S.& P. 500 gained 1.34 points, to 12,403.45. C6
 
Hints of a Slowdown
Consumers bought new homes at a slower-than-expected pace in November, and the number of Americans filing jobless claims last week rose by 33,000, to 309,000, offering signs that the economy may have begun to slow. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
WEEKEND E1-38; E39-50
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: The political whirl -- a hotter Republican contest, very different Democrats, candidate sighting around town; reforms Russia needs.
 
Columns: Gail Collins, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E49
 
TV Listings E37
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (95%); INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (93%); TIBET (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); HOLY SEE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); ITALY (70%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (87%); XIZANG, CHINA (70%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); ROME, ITALY (70%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AIRLINES (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (93%); TIBET (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); HOLY SEE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); ITALY (70%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (87%); XIZANG, CHINA (70%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); ROME, ITALY (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RELIGION (93%); HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); COUPS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); TAX RELIEF (64%); TAX INCREASES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (64%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (63%); TAX LAW (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); AL GORE (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



177 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
PENNZOIL-QUAKER STATETO CLOSE PENNSYLVANIA REFINERY

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Pennzoil-Quaker State Company plans to close its refinery and packaging plant in northwestern Pennsylvania, cutting about 300 jobs, and is trying to sell its refinery in Shreveport, La. The company said yesterday that it would charge $293 million against after-tax earnings for the plant closing in Rouseville, Pa., and for a write-down in the value of the Shreveport refinery. The Rouseville refinery processes crude oil and ships it to other oil companies. A nearby packaging plant prepares Pennzoil and Wolf's Head oils for market. The company said that oil production at the refinery would cease on Jan. 31 but that the making of waxes derived from oil would continue until June. Pennzoil has had a refinery at the site since the 1880's.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PZL (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PENNZOIL-QUAKER STATE COMPANY SOPUS PRODUCTS (95%); SHELL OIL CO (95%); WOLF'S HEAD OIL CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENNZOIL-QUAKER STATE COMPANY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE PETROLEUM LUBRICANTS MFG (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



178 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 4;Column 3;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Shoppers in U.S. Spent Big During the Holiday Season

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
At Costco, shoppers hoarded batteries. At Bloomingdale's they gorged themselves on day-after sales, and at Tiffany's they indulged in white gold. But everywhere Americans went this holiday shopping season they spent big.
A booming economy, combined with fears and celebratory impulses related to the new century, propelled sales in big chain stores open a year, a crucial industry measurement, to rise 5.1 percent in December, according to the Goldman Sachs retail index. The gain was particularly impressive because it came on the heels of an unusually strong 5.4 percent gain in December 1998. 
 Not only were sales strong, but merchants reported that they kept inventories tight and controlled price cutting so that fourth-quarter earnings would be robust as well. Industry analysts could not effuse enough. "It was a barn burner of a holiday season," said Jeff Feiner, an analyst with Lehman Brothers.
Many patterns that dominated Christmases past reappeared like Marley's ghost this season. Discount stores reported the strongest sales, while department stores trailed. Americans held back their shopping, postponing purchases until just before Christmas and even the week after the holiday to get the biggest sales -- a habit that was abetted this year by the fact that both Christmas and New Year's fell on Saturdays. "When the day after Christmas is a Sunday, it gets people out to take advantage of gift certificates and sales," said Bruce Van Kleeck, vice president of the National Retail Federation.
The biggest surprise of the month were the warehouse clubs, which as a group turned in spectacular numbers. At BJ's Wholesale Club, sales rose 14.7 percent. At Sam's Club, a unit of Wal-Mart Stores, sales advanced 14.2 percent, and at Costco Wholesale, sales jumped 18.2 percent. Costco said it had benefited from Year 2000 concerns, selling precautionary items like generators and flashlights, as well as celebratory products like wines and Champagnes.
But the chief financial officer of Costco, Richard Galanti, said that the chain, which has been doing well all year, did well across the board this holiday season -- especially in such nonbasic items as electronics, computers and jewelry. Diamonds were a particularly coveted purchase. As if to drive home the point that warehouse clubs are not just for canned tuna and toilet paper anymore, Costco said it had sold a "six-plus carat diamond" by special order for $98,000.
Jewelry retailers also experienced outsized sales increases in a category that has historically been tied very closely to the economy. At Zale's, sales for November and December climbed 16.3 percent over the comparable period a year earlier; at Tiffany & Company's United States operations, sales soared 27 percent. Michael Kowalski, president and chief executive of Tiffany, said that in addition to good economic conditions the chain had done well because it had stepped up the pace of product introductions. A square-cut engagement ring called the Lucida was especially popular this year, he said.
Department stores as a group experienced a 1.4 percent gain, but they were held back by the fact that the two giants in the category, J. C. Penney and Sears, Roebuck & Company, continued to struggle. Those two lost market share to both low-priced specialty retailers like the Gap's Old Navy and discounters like Target, a unit of the Dayton Hudson Corporation.
Some of the big-name department store chains did, however, experience a very respectable holiday season. Neiman Marcus, which focuses on more upscale customers, saw December sales rise 14.4 percent over December 1998. Saks, which had a bumpy summer and fall, had a nice Christmas recovery, reporting a sales increase of 5 percent. And Federated Department Stores, owner of Bloomingdale's and Macy's, reported a sales rise of 6.4 percent
Many analysts also credited the department stores with planning far enough in advance to preserve profits even in the face of widespread cost-cutting and coupon promotions. "Federated has been doing a great job of planning for promotions and building awareness of private brands," said Jeff Edelman, an analyst with Paine Webber.
Even Sears, which had a slight sales decrease for December, has said that earnings will rise far in excess of expectations, partly because it did not engage in heavy price cutting.
Among the specialty store chains, AnnTaylor Stores, which was expected to be a big winner as women snapped up velvet and beaded slip dresses for New Year's Eve parties, reported December sales rose only a modest 0.9 percent. In a statement, the retail chain said that it "could have benefited from traditional gift-giving items like classic twin sets."
With the Federal Reserve likely to raise interest rates in the coming months, analysts were skeptical that merchants could continue to expand at the same pace.
"We could see some hangover as early as January, as some of that Y2K merchandise comes back," warned George Strachan, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday showing sales for the largest United States retail chains in December misstated the percentage change for TJX. It was a 4 percent rise, not a drop of 1 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows the year-to-year changes in the Goldman Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly same store sales (since September 1998).
 
Chart shows the results for the five weeks ending Jan. 1, compared with the same period last year. The chart list the changes for some of the top retail companies. (Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (96%); TIF (NYSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (96%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (81%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (81%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (96%); TIFFANY & CO (81%); SAM'S CLUB (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SEAFOOD (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL J KOWALSKI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000



179 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: A Peacemaker for the Germans

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN

 BODY:
The historian weighs his words. Because his subject is Germany and the modern history of that nation is a minefield, this precision is understandable. Yet it is evident that in the crafted phrases of Fritz Stern, in the sentences that circle a subject like a hunter closing on his prey, a personality as well as a calling are revealed. He is a man of nuances; when he defines himself, it is with a kind of fastidious detail.
"I am a full-blooded non-Aryan," he says, an amused twinkle in his small eyes, hands so mobile they appear to be plucking each shade of thought from the air. "That is a definition I like. Of course, I am completely of Jewish descent. But my stumbling block with the description of myself as a Jewish historian is that it was Hitler that decided I was a Jew. My grandparents converted to Christianity; my parents were baptized at birth; I, too, was baptized. It took Hitler's racial laws to turn me into a Jew, and that provokes a certain -- let me put it like this -- a certain hesitation in me." 
 Born in 1926 in the German town of Breslau (now Wroclaw in Poland), later a child-escapee from Hitler, now an American citizen, Mr. Stern is a natural builder of bridges. For without such connections -- between Germany and the United States, between Jews and Germans, between Berlin and Warsaw, between the horror of then and the hope of now -- what chance would he have to make himself whole?
His historical writing amounts to a quest to go beyond the fragments offered by memory. "Memory may be mighty," Mr. Stern said in Frankfurt, "yet it can also be inaccurate. It keeps us on our toes, but it brings us only to the threshold of historical understanding." At a time of intellectual turmoil in Germany, this quest for understanding has earned Mr. Stern, a professor at Columbia University, a special role in the country of his birth. He has emerged as a sort of moral arbiter.
For the last year, Germany has been seeking a new 21st-century identity. It has manifested impatience with the stigma of the Nazi past, a thirst for normality, a new readiness to talk openly of German power, and a hankering for some acceptable German patriotism. Many Germans feel the "constitutional patriotism" of the philosopher Jurgen Habermas -- the neutered national identity that substituted values like democratic government for the treacherous emotions of anthem and flag -- is no longer enough. In short, Germans are unbuttoning themselves.
But as Germany searches for its new self, Germans are still a little unsure, giddy with the new vocabulary of interests, great European power and influence where once the talk was only of Europe and detente. They tremble at their boldness in moving beyond the self-imposed constraints of the postwar years. In this shifting environment, symbolized by the move of the capital from small-town Bonn to brash Berlin, Mr. Stern has emerged as perhaps the closest thing to a trusted external judge of the country's bitter internal debates.
Germans often turn to Americans when problems of memory are particularly intense. It is not for nothing that an American, Michael Blumenthal, runs the new Jewish Museum, whose architect, Daniel Liebeskind, is also an American, or that the planned Holocaust Memorial was designed by Peter Eisenman, another American. The basic difficulty behind these choices is an old one: how should the perpetrator commemorate or simply remember the crime?
Mr. Stern, the author of several books on Germany, including "The Politics of Cultural Despair," is a victim. His world began to fall apart in 1933; the family fled to New York in 1938, when the young Fritz was 12. But as a historian he has been little interested in victimhood. This flight from emotion to reason reassures Germans.
Rather, Mr. Stern has been interested in trying to recreate the time in which his father, a prominent doctor named Rudolf Stern, long thrived, in order to understand the political, cultural and economic forces that ultimately destroyed the fecund German-Jewish world of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. His affection for the pre-Nazi Germany of his parents is unmistakable.
Roland Ulmer, the president of the German Booksellers' and Publishers' Association, said: "The skill of Fritz Stern's depictions and his integrity have generated an atmosphere that provides the descendants of the victims and the descendants of the perpetrators with the building blocks from which to fashion a shared memory of a time when German-Jewish patriotism was thinkable."
In other words, he is seen as a conciliator at a difficult time. Mr. Ulmer led the jury that in 1999 awarded Mr. Stern the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade, the country's highest literary honor. In effect, a Jewish American professor was asked to step into another storm over the Nazi past and calm it. For the recipient of the prize a year earlier was the German author Martin Walser, who chose to speak aloud what many Germans silently feel.
Auschwitz, Mr. Walser declared in late 1998, should not become "a routine threat, a tool of intimidation that can be used at any time, or a moral cudgel." Apparently speaking of claims for compensation that have led to a 10-billion-mark settlement for forced and slave laborers put to work by the Nazis, he deplored the "exploitation of our shame for present purposes."
A storm duly erupted. Ignatz Bubis, the late Jewish leader in Germany, called Mr. Walser a "mental arsonist." Abruptly all the unhealed wounds of Germany's trauma were suppurating once more.
So it was no surprise that, a year later, Mr. Stern should be chosen to apply some balm. He duly obliged. His response, in a speech delivered in October, was typically measured, balanced, shaped at some level by the hesitation of a man who has done something essentially perverse: grown close to the country that murdered his uncle and aunt and hounded his parents from their home.
Mr. Stern declared that "any instrumentalization or trivialization of the Holocaust, consigning the millions of other victims to oblivion, is a crime against the victims themselves." He noted that the "first victims of National Socialism and the revival of torture were so-called Aryans," including pastors in Breslau. He recalled "how greatly attached my parents were to their home country, how naturally -- up until 1933 -- they saw themselves as Germans."
All this was certain to provide some comfort to a German audience. But Mr. Stern was also stringent in his admonitions. He deplored the government's adoption of the phrase Berlin Republic, saying "the result is simply to underline undesirable discontinuity." He warned that what he has called Germany's second chance could be undone if understanding did not overcome suspicion between Germans and from the west and the east. Above all, he suggested that the enormity of the Holocaust was such that "every attempt to escape into 'normality' is vain."
The speech was marked by a favorite word: context. It was the absence of context, as he saw it, that led Mr. Stern to a sharp condemnation of the most controversial recent work on Germany, Daniel Goldhagen's best-selling "Hitler's Willing Executioners." In an essay reprinted last year in "Einstein's German World," Mr. Stern's latest work, he charges Mr. Goldhagen with "the indictment of a people."
Mr. Goldhagen, a social scientist at Harvard, retorted that Mr. Stern's was the "reaction of the old guard, and one of striking intellectual bankruptcy." He continued, "I was accused by him of defaming the German national character, but all I said was Germans believed certain things at a certain time, just as it is clear that in the 1860's most whites in the American South were racist."
The Goldhagen book was troubling to Mr. Stern because he has been concerned with steering a repentant postwar Germany toward the stable democracy with strong trans-Atlantic bonds that it is today. For Mr. Stern, the Goldhagen work -- with its thesis of a deeply rooted, widespread and peculiarly German anti-Semitism as the basis of the Holocaust -- was shallow and dangerous.
For him, it underplayed the role that the national humiliation of Versailles had in igniting anti-Semitism; it ignored the participation or complicity of other European nations in the annihilation of European Jews; it might only reignite "latent anti-German sentiment among Americans, especially Jews."
The argument simmers on. Mr. Goldhagen makes a powerful case that anti-Semitism was part of the "cultural cognitive model" of the German society that produced Hitler; Mr. Stern says that "is an incredibly simplistic view." His reality is another: the ambiguity of German sentiment toward the Jews and the Jews' painful German patriotism, which together made up the unquiet world of his forebears. Anti-Semitism was not the whole story as the Sterns lived it in Breslau.
Mr. Stern, unlike some Germans, has no illusions that the world of interwoven German and Jewish culture into which he was born can be restored. The Jews arriving from Russia, drawn by financial enticements, will not recreate what Hitler destroyed. Germany must help bring Central European states like Poland firmly into the Western fold. For in illusion about the past lies the danger of another departure down some shimmering, unique and volatile German path, which Mr. Stern has always feared and always fought.
In his latest book, Stern quotes Einstein on the Germans: "A country of mass murderers." He also quotes another brilliant scientist and German Jew, Fritz Haber: "The nation is bourgeois to its very depths." Germany, of course, has been both those things. Therein lies its fascination. Einstein never converted; Haber was baptized at the age of 24. Both veered between love and despair at their homeland.
These are the intellectual struggles between attraction and repulsion that intrigue Mr. Stern; in some measure they are his own. "In retrospect," he says, "I can understand what motivated my paternal grandparents to convert, as I think a historian must understand things in the context of when they occurred. I am not necessarily happy about it, because I do not like the idea of changing religion for national advantage, but I can certainly comprehend."
This baptized German Jewish family was not simply persecuted, for it first advanced thrillingly in the politically unstable, fast-growing, inventive and finally humiliated German world of the first third of this century. Germans, ever torn between the light and dark of their natures, ever harboring secrets, are drawn to Mr. Stern because he has sought to portray all these shadings of the German tragedy. At another moment of uncertain change, he helps them believe in themselves -- with wariness.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: HITLER'S WILLING EXECUTIONERS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; JEWS; HISTORY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); HISTORY (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); LITERATURE (85%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); RELIGION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); RACE & RACISM (52%); 

PERSON: STERN, FRITZ (PROF); COHEN, ROGER; GOLDHAGEN, DANIEL RUDOLF STERN (93%); FRITZ STERN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



180 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: The Artist's Friend Turned Enemy: A Backlash Against the Copyright

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

 BODY:
Shakespeare was great at writing plays but lousy at inventing plots. So he borrowed them.
"Romeo and Juliet," for instance, was lifted from "The Tragicall Historye of Romeus and Juliet," a 1562 translation of a tale by Matteo Bandello, an Italian writer, soldier and monk. "Julius Caesar" came out of Sir Thomas North's 1579 translation of Plutarch's "Lives of Nobel Grecians and Romans." 
 Nobody sued for breach of copyright because there wasn't any. By and large, the work of artists, inventors and scientists was available for others to copy, improve or improvise on at will.
Of course, that hasn't been true the last couple of hundred years. The idea of a copyright -- to establish personal ownership of artworks, ideas, techniques and other intellectual property -- was included in Article 1 of the United States Constitution. In 1989 Americans took out 95,537 patents; in 1998 the number reached 147,521 and 72,395 more were issued to foreigners.
In 1998 Congress extended existing copyright protection for an additional 20 years. Major beneficiaries were corporations like Disney, whose copyright on Mickey Mouse, for example, was to expire in 2004 but has now been extended through 2023.
Since then criticism has been building in the academic world, with many arguing that the growing privatization of knowledge will threaten traditional intellectual and artistic freedoms.
"Industries and governments always favor strong intellectual property protection; academics tend to favor weaker protection," said Robert P. Merges, an expert on intellectual property law at the University of California at Berkeley. "If you took a poll of American academics, you'd find most believe the knowledge grab has gone too far."
This year a group of Harvard University law professors asked the United States District Court for the District of Columbia to declare the Copyright Extension Act of 1998 unconstitutional. They argued that it violated guarantees of free speech by reprivatizing works that would otherwise have become public property. They also said it breached a constitutional requirement that copyright laws "promote the progress of science and useful arts."
"Extending a dead author's copyright won't encourage him to write another book," said Lawrence Lessig, one of the Harvard professors bringing the case. "Would Shakespeare have written 'Romeo and Juliet' if he had to get permission from Bandello and pay royalties?"
The court rejected the argument, and the professors have appealed.
Patents and copyrights are essentially a monopoly that the government grants for a limited time to encourage art and invention by publicizing new discoveries while ensuring the authors a fair return.
In his book "Knowledge Diplomacy," a study of the international diplomacy of intellectual property rights, Michael P. Ryan of Georgetown University explains: "From its beginning the basic contract between the innovator and society has been that, rather than safeguarding the know-how of an innovation through the darkness of trade secrets, the innovator discloses the know-how in exchange for a limited period of exclusivity to produce and authorize to produce."
After World War II, he writes, "industrial diplomacy" created global markets for manufactured goods. Today that has been replaced by "knowledge diplomacy," which is "institutionalizing trade in products of invention and expression, offering innovators the incentive to make their products for the global market."
While some of the fastest growth in copyrights has been in the field of computer software (where the number of patents granted is expected to increase to 22,500 for 1999 from 1,300 in 1990), companies are increasingly patenting such innovations as methods of doing business.
Amazon.com, the on-line bookseller, for example, has patented its "one click" sales system, allowing customers to place new orders with a single press on the computer mouse. And priceline.com has done the same for "reverse auctions," which enable buyers to name a price and find a seller. Applications for such "business method" patents have risen 70 percent this year, according to the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
Critics say that the current laws on intellectual property may shrinkthe pool of freely available artworks and ideas from which artists and inventors often draw their inspiration.
In "Shamans, Software and Spleens: Law and the Construction of the Information Society" (Harvard University Press), James Boyle of American University argues that the present system overemphasizes the rights of the romanticized author at the expense of "the public domain necessary to give the magpie genius the raw material she needs."
Already many universities and colleges have stopped providing students with photocopied anthologies of learned articles as an introduction to their courses. Those that still do may charge an additional fee to cover royalties.
Ronald V. Bettif, a communications professor at Pennsylvania State University, writes in his book "Copyrighting Culture: the Political Economy of Intellectual Property" (Westview Press): "The consequences of expanded intellectual property rights are always the same: the continuing enclosure of the intellectual and artistic commons.
"More and more knowledge and culture are being privately appropriated and submitted to the logic of the marketplace."
What is patented is supposed to be novel, useful and not obvious. Today many critics feel the United States Patent and Trademark Office is granting patents too readily with insufficient research to establish that what it protects really is new and useful.
"The P.T.O. refuses to give examiners enough time, money and resources to search for relevant 'prior art' to establish novelty," said Gregory Aharonian, who runs the specialist Internet Patent Newservice in San Francisco.
As examples of what he calls "ridiculous patents" he cites one for a disposable razor with a small mirror attached so the shaver can watch himself shave and another for a dog collar that discourages dogs from barking by buzzing them when they do.
Professor Lessig agrees. "It takes $1.2 million on average to challenge the validity of a patent, which means it is often cheaper simply to pay the royalties than establish that a patent isn't deserved," he said.
Although many academic experts say copyrights can have suffocating side effects, few argue for their abandonment. Professor Boyle, for instance, favors establishing a new property right that would encourage native peoples to preserve forests and their tribal lore by receiving royalty payments from pharmaceutical companies that use the plants they live among and the natives' knowledge of them to make profitable drugs.
Sales of a drug derived from the rosy periwinkle found in Madagascar is used to treat Hodgkin's disease and are worth about $100 million a year, he points out. But Madagascar gets nothing and its people chop down their forests to live. "Who knows what other unique and potentially valuable plants disappear with the forest, what generations of pharmacological experience disappear as the indigenous culture is destroyed?" he asks.
Others argue that not only researchers but also participants in experimental research should benefit from resulting medical advances. Mr. Boyle cites the case of John Moore v. the Regents of the University of California, in which American courts decided that a patient had no rights deriving from medical information about proteins that regulate the immune system discovered through research on his spleen.
Mr. Ryan writes that the United States, at the urging of business, has been aggressively pushing other countries to accept its system of intellectual property rights in international trade negotiations. The results are mixed, however.
Susan K. Sell, the author of "Power and Ideas: North-South Aspects of Intellectual Property and Antitrust," argues that despite "their glaring vulnerability to trade threats, developing countries have not enforced intellectual property protection" and "do not believe in it at this point."
Washington is nonetheless likely to press for enforcement. Mr. Ryan puts the cost of foreign piracy to American industry at more than $10 billion in 1996, including $1.8 billion in the film industry, $1.2 billion in music, $3.8 billion in business application software and $690 million in book publishing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Walt Disney 1928 copyright on Mickey Mouse hasn't kept him from evolving over the decades. (Walt Disney Productions); Th amphibious tricycle never quite caught on, but being outlandish has never stopped an inventor. (From "The Patent Book" A.& W. Publishers )(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COPYRIGHT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); PATENTS (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); WRITERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); LITIGATION (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (75%); ROYALTIES (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); 

PERSON: MATTEO BANDELLO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



181 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Detention Given in Theft of Secrets

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio, Jan. 7

 BODY:
A Taiwan executive who paid an employee of the Avery Dennison Corporation to pilfer corporate secrets from the company, a United States adhesives maker, was sentenced on Wednesday to six months home detention in the first case tried under a United States law aimed at combating trade-secret thefts.
A federal judge in Youngstown, Ohio, sentenced the executive, P. Y. Yang, chief executive of the Taiwan-based Four Pillars Ltd., to two years probation along with home detention for violating the Economic Espionage Act. Mr. Yang's daughter, Hwei Chang Yang, was sentenced to one-year probation on the same charge. 
 The Yangs were convicted in April 1999 of paying Ten Hong Lee, a senior research engineer at Avery Dennison, $160,000 over eight years to obtain adhesive formulas and other innovations developed by the company, which is based in Pasadena, Calif. Four Pillars and Avery Dennison compete in the Asian adhesive-label market.
Four Pillars itself also was convicted on the espionage charges. United States District Judge Peter Economus fined the company $5 million for accepting the pilfered secrets.
The government's experts estimated Avery Dennison lost to be at least $30 million because of the theft, the court papers said.
The Yangs' lawyers countered that the Four Pillars' officials never used any of the information they obtained from Avery Dennison to gain a competitive advantage and the executives have already served two years home detention waiting for the case to come to trial.
The Yangs each faced a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and $250,000 in fines for violating the espionage law. Four Pillars could be fined up to $5 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVY (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AVERY DENNISON CORP (AVY); FOUR PILLARS LTD. AVERY DENNISON CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVERY DENNISON CORP (AVY); FOUR PILLARS LTD.

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAIWAN SENTENCING (91%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (91%); HOUSE ARREST (91%); PROBATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (90%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (90%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); PRISONS (78%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); JUDGES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



182 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Lynch Reimburses Client For Loss Linked to Ex-Employee

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch & Company said today that it reimbursed money to a client and was pursuing prosecution of a former Egyptian employee who may have misappropriated the funds. Merrill Lynch paid back about $40 million, The Financial Times reported today.
Merrill's private banking group reimbursed the money to the Arab International Bank, and said it was pursuing criminal and civil charges against the former employee, Ashraf Raffa, 47, who was arrested in Egypt on Dec. 9. It is trying to recover the misappropriated money through legal proceedings. 
 The former employee is believed to have made several transfers of fixed income securities from Arab International Bank's funds to an account with UBS A.G. in Geneva between 1996 and 1998 by forging the signature of a former employee of the bank who died three months before the transactions started. The former London-based employee is being held in an Egyptian prison.
The incident highlights one of the risks financial services firms such as Merrill, based in New York, face in managing far-flung networks of brokers and offices worldwide, analysts said.
"The important thing is that Merrill spotted it, acted quickly and no counterparty lost out," said Philip Middleton, European head of banking strategy at KPMG. "There is a growing awareness within financial institutions of operational risk. Fraud and staff malfeasance is one of these issues."
Merrill said it paid the money back to the bank at the end of last year after it uncovered the extent of the misappropriation of funds. The incident first came to light in September, when Mr. Raffa stopped working for Merrill.
"Merrill Lynch has paid its client in full for losses incurred as the result of an apparent misappropriation of securities by one former employee of Merrill Lynch's private-banking group," Merrill Lynch said in a statement.
Merrill handles $1.5 trillion in assets for individual investors and institutions and has offices throughout the Middle East. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (70%); UBS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (74%); MIDDLE EAST (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL CORP (MRLL) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (98%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%); UBS AG (70%); ARAB INTERNATIONAL BANK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL CORP (MRLL)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (74%); MIDDLE EAST (57%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS MISAPPROPRIATION (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MISCONDUCT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (72%); PRIVATE BANKING (72%); ARRESTS (71%); 

PERSON: ASHRAF RAFFA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



183 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Surged in November

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
Borrowing by United States consumers ballooned in November, as credit purchases helped push auto sales toward a record year and kicked off the best holiday shopping season since 1992, Federal Reserve figures showed today.
Consumer credit rose by $15.6 billion in November to $1.39 trillion, the biggest leap since borrowing increased $15.3 billion in January 1999. Borrowing rose at an annual rate of 13.7 percent in November, compared with a rate of 4.6 percent in October and 5.3 percent for all of 1998. 
 The burst in credit exceeded the $6.4 billion expected by analysts and shows that consumer spending is behind an economic expansion on track to become the longest in United States history next month. Loans for automobiles and other purchases like boats, vacations and schooling accounted for more than two-thirds of the jump in borrowing, rising to $11.2 billion after an increase of $5.5 billion in October. Credit card and other revolving debt rose $4.4 billion after a decline of $225 million during October. The statistics omit popular home equity loans and other borrowing secured by real estate.
Borrowing had risen $5.2 billion in October, originally reported as an increase of $4.2 billion. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY CONSUMER LENDING (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



184 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
The 3 Main U.S. Stock Gauges Rally to End a Turbulent Week

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The stock market rallied across the board yesterday, wiping out most of the losses of a topsy-turvy week that began with interest rates surging and equity investors running for the exits.
The Dow Jones industrial average, after falling 4.3 percent Monday and Tuesday, rallied the last three days to finish the week at a new high, eclipsing the record set New Year's Eve. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks bounced back to just 28 points shy of its record. The Nasdaq composite index, which fell prey to the rush to dump technology stocks, was off 9.8 percent through Thursday. But its 4.2 percent rally yesterday left it down a more modest 6 percent for the first week of the year. 
 The selling in New York early in the week sent stocks in Europe and Asia tumbling. But those markets also rebounded.
The rally showed that investors, despite a surge in interest rates since mid-November and the threat of more increases by the Federal Reserve, still want stocks -- even if they are ones they had avoided before. The rally also makes one wonder if selloffs will ever unnerve investors.
As all three major stock gauges rose together for the first time this year and trading volume neared record levels, investors bought nontechnology stocks that were shunned last year. At the same time, they picked up some of the technology stocks that had been hammered Tuesday through Thursday.
Staples, the office equipment retailer, which plunged almost 29 percent last year, climbed 1 1/4, to 255/16 , and is up 22 percent this week. Caterpillar, the manufacturer of big machinery, climbed 111/16 , to 535/16 , rising for a third consecutive day.
On the technology side, Qualcomm rallied for the first time in three days, rising 915/16 , to 150. After being one of the top-performing stocks last year, surging 2,616 percent, Qualcomm fell 21.9 percent from Tuesday through Thursday. Yahoo and Cisco Systems also rose yesterday after falling this week. The three stocks led the Nasdaq composite index up 155.49 points, or 4.2 percent, to 3,882.62 -- 248 points below the high it hit Monday.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 269.30 points, or 2.4 percent, to 11,522.56 -- 25 points above its previous record. The Standard & Poor's index rose 38.02 points, or 2.7 percent, to 1,441.47.
"I think the market hit a speed bump this week," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, alluding to the incredible 53.7 percent increase in the Nasdaq index since Oct. 19. "But the appetite is there to buy stocks. Money doesn't want to leave the stock market so it is searching out safe havens."
Among these are drugs, consumer staples and old-line industrial companies. Another sign of that shift was the jump in the price of Coca-Cola yesterday, which rose 3 3/4, to 60 3/4, after the company announced some top executive appointments.
The rally in stocks came after the Labor Department announced that 315,000 new nonfarm payroll jobs had been created in December and that the nation's unemployment rate had remained at 4.1 percent, a 30-year low. While the jobs increase was higher than the 240,000 to 250,000 predicted by analysts, it did not seem to worry investors, nor did the jump in average hourly earnings. Treasury bond and note prices fell after the jobs data was announced but rallied later in the day. The yield on the 30-year bond slipped to 6.54 percent, from 6.56 percent on Thursday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 6/32 , to 9418/32 .
Stephen D. Slifer, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, said one reason for the muted response was that the yields of Treasury bonds and notes have already risen sharply in anticipation of interest rate moves by the Federal Reserve, probably beginning with a quarter-point increase at the Feb. 2 policy makers' meeting. He also said that although wages were rising, the rate of increase was below the pace of more than 4 percent of early 1998.
One of the forces driving selling earlier this week was the fear of an increase of at least a half of a percentage point in the Fed's short-term interest rate target as the central bank seeks to slow the economy to an acceptable, noninflationary pace of growth. With the economy growing at a 5 percent rate in the last six months there is no sign of a slowdown yet. That concern sent the yield on the 30-year bond up to 6.62 percent on Monday and again on Wednesday, the highest in more than two years.
Many investors with profits in technology stocks in 1999 seemed to have delayed their move to lock up their gains until the new year so that their due date for capital gains would be put off as long as possible.
The surge in interest rates and some negative earnings announcements from technology and Internet companies, including Amazon.com, Gateway and Lucent Technologies, helped accelerate selling.
But as investors abandoned technology they picked up other stocks, including hard-hit financial shares, helping to turn around the Dow and the S.& P. 500 indexes, which are less heavily weighted in technology than the Nasdaq.
Lucent Technologies, the maker of telecommunications equipment, set a one-day trading volume record with 179 million shares changing hands, including 136.6 million on the New York Stock Exchange and the rest on other trading systems. Lucent plunged 24.7 percent in after-hours trading Thursday, a fall reflected in yesterday's results, with the stock down 15 1/4, at 53 3/4. Lucent announced late Thursday that its first-quarter revenue and earnings would fall well short of analysts' expectations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); QUALCOMM INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); RETAILERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



185 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Trump Speaks Out on Just About Everything

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: BROOKLYN PARK, Minn., Jan. 7

 BODY:
Taking potshots at Ed Koch, all the Republicans running for president, North Korea, Fidel Castro, Japan, Russia and candidates of humble background, Donald J. Trump today brought his presidential exploratory campaign to Minnesota, where he outlined his vision of a Trump administration and helped raise money for his Reform Party ally, Gov. Jesse Ventura.
Mr. Trump, who called himself "the biggest developer in the hottest city in the world" -- that would be New York -- spoke at a Chamber of Commerce lunch and later at a dinner where more than 200 people paid $100 a ticket to attend. Aides to Governor Ventura, the Reform Party's highest-ranking elected official, said the money would be used to spread the party's gospel around the state. 
 By day's end, however, Mr. Trump seemed no closer to announcing whether he would compete for the party's presidential nomination than when he arrived.
"I am looking very, very seriously at whether or not it can be won," he said at a news conference with Mr. Ventura that was sandwiched between his scheduled events. "Instinctively, I want to know if I have a good chance of winning."
For Mr. Trump, the visit was a chance to share with appreciative audiences his views of, well, just about everything. He said New York City's inability to fix the Wollman skating rink in Central Park, which Mr. Trump repaired for the city at cost in 1986, showed that Mr. Koch was a bad mayor. Mr. Trump said he watched the Republican candidates debate on Thursday night and concluded: "Are these people stiffs, or what? It was pathetic."
He described North Korea as the United States' greatest foreign threat, a country "run by some very bad people." He called himself "a big, big fan" of the economic embargo against Cuba, whose president, Mr. Castro, is "a bad guy." He said that Japan had been "ripping us off for 25 years," and that Russia was "totally mixed up, and they have missiles run by people nobody ever even heard of."
And he struck a blow for rich people as national leaders, chiding candidates who express pride in their humble backgrounds.
"They're losers," Mr. Trump said. "Who the hell wants to have a person like this for president?"
Without criticizing anyone, he reviewed his proposal to eliminate the national debt with a one-time tax on the nation's wealthiest people and said he would put forth his ideas on health care and overhauling the welfare system within a few weeks.
Mr. Trump said he came to Minnesota as a favor to Mr. Ventura, not to get his endorsement. But the governor made it clear that Mr. Trump would get it if he decided to run. Otherwise, Mr. Ventura said, he would endorse someone else, anyone but Patrick J. Buchanan, the Republican-turned-Reform candidate who is seeking the party nomination.
Because of policy differences with Mr. Buchanan, the governor said, "It would be very difficult for me to support him."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald J. Trump and Gov. Jesse Ventura exchanged praise yesterday in Brooklyn Park, Minn. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



186 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Unemployment Rate Stayed At 4.1 Percent in December
Employers created 315,000 new nonfarm jobs in December, 75,000 more than economists had predicted and the biggest one-month gain since July. With more people entering the work force, the unemployment rate remained at a 30-year low of 4.1 percent, where it has been for the last three months. The report showed that unemployment for all of 1999 averaged 4.2 percent, down from 4.5 percent in 1998 and the lowest rate since 1969, when it was 3.5 percent.
Average hourly earnings for the month rose by 0.4 percent, slightly more than expected. But because workers are producing more for each hour worked, the growth in wages so far shows few signs of setting off a surge in inflation. The figures increased the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would increase interest rates next month. Page A1. 

Granada Group Plans to Buy a Rival
Granada Group, a leading British operator of television networks, hotels and restaurants, said it planned to buy either Carlton Communications or United News and Media in an effort to block the $6.6 billion merger of the two companies and win control of Britain's commercial television industry. B2.
 
Army Set to Change Its Advertising
With recruiters struggling to fill its ranks, the Army plans to overhaul its advertising and marketing. It will end its contract with the Young & Rubicam advertising agency after 12 years and plans to stop using its slogan, "Be all that you can be." Officials have had a difficult time putting their finger on what it is about the slogan, or its intended audience, that makes for a fit that is not quite comfortable. They simply have a general sense that the motto does not seize today's young people, and that the service could also do a better job of marketing its mission to older people. A9.
 
Brazil's Internet Providers Protest
The Brazilian Association of Internet Providers protested plans by two prominent banks to provide free access to the World Wide Web. The association said the move might inhibit competition because its members -- small providers of Internet access -- may be forced out of business by the big competitors. B2.
 
Morgan Stanley Wins Name Dispute
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter won a fight to take possession of an Internet domain name for its new online trading site. The name was given up by a California teenager who had registered the names of dozens of well-known brands and Wall Street brokerage firms. B2.
 
Merrill Lynch Reimburses a Client
Merrill Lynch said it reimbursed millions of dollars to the Arab International Bank and was pursuing prosecution of a former Egyptian employee who may have misappropriated the funds. B3.
 
ABC and N.A.A.C.P. in a Job Pact
Two days after NBC announced an agreement with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, ABC said it reached its own deal with Kweisi Mfume, the president of the N.A.A.C.P. ABC said it intended "to increase opportunities for qualified people of color in the network television industry" both in front of and behind the camera, and underscored its existing diversity plans, such as formal mentoring efforts and programs to encourage minority writers. A8.
 
McLeodUSA to Acquire Splitrock
The telecommunications company McLeodUSA said that it would buy the data communications provider Splitrock Services for about $1.75 billion in stock to widen its service offerings beyond voice telephone services. B3.
 
Israeli Central Banker Nominated
Israel's Prime Minister nominated a senior central bank economist, David Klein, as the bank's next governor, signaling a continuing hard line against inflation. B2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,522.56 up 269.30
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.54% down 0.02
The euro -- $1.028 down 0.004
The dollar -- 105.21 yen down 0.19
 
Graph: "UNEMPLOYMENT IN 1999" shows unemployment statistics from January 1999 until December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: UBM (LSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS561920 CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW ORGANIZERS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); UBM PLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); ARAB INTERNATIONAL BANK (50%); RIVAL GRANADA GROUP (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: RIVAL GRANADA GROUP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (85%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); MARKETING PLAN (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); ONLINE TRADING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (70%); RESTAURANTS (67%); DOMAIN NAMES (66%); MISAPPROPRIATION (60%); SECURITIES BROKERS (60%); MERGERS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



187 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Army, Its Recruiting Not All It Could Be, Decides to Overhaul Its Advertising

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
With recruiters struggling to fill its ranks and with public perceptions of its role apparently blurring, the Army plans to overhaul its advertising and marketing campaign, among other steps ending its contract with Young & Rubicam after 12 years.
The most immediate and perceptible effect of the changes, which the Army announced today, may be the demise of "Be All That You Can Be," its slogan for two decades but one that officials said might no longer attract the enlistees the service desperately needs. 
 " 'Be All You Can Be' is a great slogan," said P. T. Henry, assistant secretary of the Army for manpower and reserve affairs. "It is the trademark of the Army, known around the world, and it has served the Army well. The question is, Is it the right slogan today to recruit young men and women for the Army of the 21st century?"
Officials have had a difficult time putting their finger on what it is about the slogan, or its intended audience, that makes for a fit that is not quite comfortable. They simply have a general sense that the motto does not seize today's young people, and that the service could also do a better job of marketing its mission to older people -- "influencers," as they are called -- who might steer the young toward an Army career.
The Army's announcement underscored the nagging difficulties all the armed services are having signing up recruits at a time when the economy is booming and more young people than ever are finding college an attainable goal. Despite higher bonuses and grants for tuition, the services' recruiters have been scrambling, often unsuccessfully, to meet their recruiting goals in recent years.
In the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, the Army missed its goal of 74,500 recruits by 6,291, an 8 percent shortfall, while the Air Force was shy of its goal of 32,673 by 1,727, or 5 percent. A year before, the Navy fell short by nearly 12 percent.
Young & Rubicam took over the Army's advertising campaign in 1987 and built on the "Be All That You Can Be" motto, which had been developed seven years earlier by the advertising agency N. W. Ayer. Now the secretary of the Army, Louis Caldera, has decided to exercise the Army's option not to renew the Young & Rubicam contract when it expires on July 31.
The current contract, worth about $14 million a year, was negotiated in 1997. It provided for an initial year plus four options of one year each. Had the Army kept renewing, the contract would have continued into the summer of 2002.
The Army, whose move was first reported in The Wall Street Journal today, said it would now invite major advertising agencies to bid for a new contract that would link payment to measurable results in enlistment increases. The Army has hired a consulting firm, Jones-Lundin Associates of Chicago, to help in the search.
The service said it hoped Young & Rubicam would compete for the new contract. But officials at the agency sounded irked by the Army's handling of the matter, particularly its decision to make a contract-termination announcement now -- seven months before the end of the current option year -- rather than use some of that time to work with the agency to bolster the campaign.
"We have not made a decision yet as to whether we'll take part as the Army recompetes the contract," said Bill Kelly, managing partner for the agency's U.S. Army Group. "We're not balking at recompeting. That's a fact of life for a government contract."
But he added, "We have real issues with the process and the timing."
While the Army's step is the most drastic so far, all the services have begun to rethink their advertising and marketing strategies after several years of recruiting difficulties.
No longer content with public service announcements, the Air Force last year began paying for television advertisements for the first time. So far the service has spent $29 million in the current fiscal year to put them on the air, though officials say it is too early to tell whether those spots have helped bolster enlistments.
And last fall the Navy took the unusual step of mailing letters to 65,000 retired sailors and officers, asking them to consider rejoining.
The Army's changes grew in part from a study completed last fall for Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen by two prominent political consultants: Carter D. Eskew, a Democrat, and Michael R. Murphy, a Republican. The study criticized the services, saying that in addition to a failure to articulate their mission, they had spent advertising dollars inefficiently -- by broadcasting advertisements on telecasts of national sports events, for example, rather than taking aim at niche markets on syndicated or cable programs. The consultants recommended that the services conduct better research on young people in order to direct their advertising at a variety of young audiences.
The Army announced today that it was creating a marketing division to do just that. It also plans to hire market research firms to devise ways to learn more about attitudes and tastes of young people so that its advertising budget, which has risen to $115 million from $85 million two years ago, is better spent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); US ARMY GROUP (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ARMY GROUP (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMIES (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING PLAN (78%); MILITARY RECRUITING (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); AIR FORCES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



188 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Jobs At End of Year Beats Estimates

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
Employers added jobs at a surprisingly robust rate in December, propelling the economy into the new year with considerable momentum, the Labor Department reported today.
The economy created 315,000 new nonfarm jobs last month, 75,000 more than economists had predicted and the biggest one-month gain since July. With more people entering the work force, the unemployment rate remained at a 30-year low of 4.1 percent, where it has been for the last three months. 
 The report showed that unemployment for all of 1999 averaged 4.2 percent, down from 4.5 percent in 1998 and the lowest rate since 1969, when it was 3.5 percent.
Among black workers, the rate for the full year fell to 8 percent from 8.9 percent a year earlier, the lowest since the Labor Department started keeping separate records by race in 1972. Among Hispanic workers, the rate fell to 6.4 percent in 1999 from 7.2 percent a year earlier, the lowest since the department began breaking out statistics on Hispanic employment in 1973.
Average hourly earnings for the month rose four-tenths of 1 percent, slightly more than expected. But because workers are producing more for each hour worked, the growth in wages so far shows few signs of setting off a surge in inflation.
While good news across the board, the figures substantially increased the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would act to keep the economy from overheating by raising interest rates next month.
On Wall Street, investors acknowledged that a rate increase was now all but certain, but concluded that inflationary pressures were so muted that the Fed would limit the increase to a quarter of a percentage point rather than the half-point increase that the markets had come to fear in recent days.
Both blue-chip and technology stocks surged. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 269.30 points, to 11,522.56, a record. The Nasdaq composite index reversed three days of sharp declines, rising 155.49 points, to 3,882.62. Bond prices rose.
"There's enough strength in this report to make it a virtual certainty the Fed will tighten in February," said Stuart G. Hoffman, an economist at the PNC Corporation in Pittsburgh. "But I think a quarter of a point is all that's likely to come from the Fed, and appropriately so because this report is not so exceedingly strong as to force the Fed into a more aggressive increase."
Job gains were particularly strong in retailing and construction last month, while a prolonged decline in manufacturing jobs slowed as exports showed signs of picking up.
The report also left little doubt that the economy would continue growing for another month, all but assuring that the current business expansion will become the nation's longest in February, at 8 years and 11 months, breaking a record set in the 1960's.
With the presidential campaign heating up, the figures suggested that the economy will only be a political issue during the primary season to the degree that Vice President Al Gore can claim credit for its strength or to the degree that the other candidates in both parties can convince voters that they can keep the good times rolling.
But the economy's resilience presents a tricky challenge for the Fed, whose chairman, Alan Greenspan, was nominated to a fourth four-year term this week by President Clinton.
Mr. Greenspan has been increasingly blunt in warning over the last few months that the economy is running out of workers, and that even the substantial gains in productivity growth generated by huge investments in technology are not sufficient to eliminate the risk of spiraling wages and prices.
The Fed raised its benchmark Federal funds target rate three times last year in quarter-point increments, to 5.5 percent. The central bank's policy-setting committee meets again on Feb. 1 and 2, and analysts are almost unanimous in expecting another quarter-point increase then.
"The numbers suggest that economic activity continues to be strong, and undoubtedly stronger than the Fed believes is consistent with holding down inflation," said Paul L. Kasriel, an economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
So far there is little hard evidence that inflation pressures are taking root. Although wage growth is running slightly higher now than it was last summer -- average hourly earnings were up 3.7 percent last month over the corresponding month a year earlier, compared with 3.4 percent in August -- the average increase in the fourth quarter was actually lower than in the first half of 1999.
Mr. Hoffman said today's numbers provided some clues that productivity growth continued to be strong at the end of the year, allowing employers to absorb higher wage costs without having to raise prices.
And there have been tentative signs that higher interest rates are beginning to slow the housing market, a possible precursor of a more generalized economic slowdown.
But Mr. Kasriel cited two statistics watched closely by Mr. Greenspan that suggest potential for trouble.
One is a broad definition of the number of available workers -- people who are officially unemployed, plus those not actively looking for a job but interested in working. By that measure, joblessness fell last month to its lowest level during this business cycle, 4.5 percent, down from 4.6 percent a month earlier and 4.8 percent a year earlier, he said.
The other is the "quit rate," or the number of people who have left their jobs voluntarily as a percentage of total unemployed workers. That rate rose to 14.4 percent from 14.3 percent last month, also a high for this business cycle, indicating that workers are increasingly confident they can find a new, better-paying job.
"The implication is that you're going to have to pay more to retain your staff," Mr. Kasriel said.
Many economists say the Fed is likely to have to raise rates a number of times this year to slow the economy to a noninflationary pace. Economists at Salomon Smith Barney forecast today that the Fed would raise rates at least three-quarters of a point, and perhaps a full percentage point.
But Mr. Greenspan has proved to be a gradualist when it comes to adjusting monetary policy, raising and lowering rates a quarter of a point at a time and reassessing the economy every few weeks or months. He has not raised interest rates by half a percentage point since 1995.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in December" describes unemployment changes, nationally, from Nov. 1998 to Nov. 1999. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)
 
Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"
Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted.
 
Graph shows Annual Rates of Change from June 1998 to November of 1999. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (63%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INFLATION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



189 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Suspect Pleads Not Guilty In Brick Attack on Woman

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
The man charged with attacking a woman with a brick in Midtown Manhattan in November pleaded not guilty yesterday and said he was in his girlfriend's apartment in the Bronx at the time.
The man, Paris Drake, 32, made his plea in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He is charged with attempted murder, attempted robbery, assault and weapons possession in the attack on Nicole Barrett, 27, a native of Texas. She was hit with a six-pound paving stone on the afternoon of Nov. 16, and needed two brain operations as a result. 
 Immediately after the incident, it was thought that the attacker was homeless and mentally ill. The attack prompted a crackdown by the Giuliani administration on homeless people who sleep on the street.
But from details presented yesterday in a police report, it appeared that Mr. Drake was neither homeless nor mentally ill. He had no history of psychiatric problems and had lived at least temporarily with his girlfriend on the Grand Concourse. A woman sat with his lawyers in the courtroom yesterday, holding an infant, but the lawyers would not identify her.
And Mr. Drake is being represented by a lawyer with offices on Park Avenue who was hired by his family.
"He's not the attacker, and he's not the panhandler the press has painted him," said the lawyer, Louis A. Zayas. "Quite frankly, I think they've got the wrong person."
"He's got family members that care a great deal about him," Mr. Zayas said.
In a police statement made public yesterday, Mr. Drake said he was unemployed and could not remember the last time he had worked. He routinely spent his days on Eighth Avenue, between 34th and 41st Streets, where he bought almonds, crushed them and sold the powder, pretending it was crack, the statement said. With the profits, he took the subway to 146th Street, bought crack and got high, according to the statement. He repeated the trip two or three times a day, depending on how much money he made, he told the police.
Mr. Drake was arrested after an inmate at Rikers Island told the police that he had bragged about the crime after his Nov. 23 arrest on drug charges.
Mr. Drake first told the police he spent Monday, Nov. 15, going in and out of the apartment on the Grand Concourse, buying crack and food. But when asked how he spent Nov. 16, he said he had stayed in the apartment both Monday and Tuesday, resting from the weekend.
Some legal experts have said they thought prosecutors were relying on too little evidence in charging Mr. Drake and that they might have a difficult time convicting him. Officials have said there are no fingerprints or other physical evidence to link him to the crime.
One of six witnesses who viewed a lineup identified Mr. Drake as the suspect. But papers from the district attorney's office show that another witness identified a photograph of a different person as the attacker and had earlier identified a third person in a lineup as the person who hit Ms. Barrett. The other witnesses failed to pick Mr. Drake out of a lineup.
After the arraignment, Mr. Zayas said the police had found the wrong person to charge in the attack.
"The entire New York Police Department's detective bureau was mobilized to find someone who was responsible for this," Mr. Zayas said.
The prosecution offered no new evidence against Mr. Drake yesterday. If convicted of all the offenses, he could be sentenced to 72 years in prison. He is scheduled to appear in court again on Feb. 19.
Ms. Barrett, who has returned to her family in Texas, is recovering faster than expected, but doctors have said she may have permanent brain damage. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAWYERS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); COCAINE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); ARRESTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FINGERPRINTING (76%); PSYCHIATRY (74%); PANHANDLING (74%); MURDER (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); ROBBERY (71%); 

PERSON: LOUIS A ZAYAS (74%); NICOLE BARRETT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



190 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
Russia Suspends Attacks Against Chechen Capital
The Russian military, confronting fierce rebel resistance, rising casualties and bad weather, said it was suspending its assault on Grozny. The deputy commander of Russian troops in Chechnya said the pause was intended to allow thousands of civilians trapped in the capital to leave. He did not say how long the pause would last. A1
 
U.S. Drafts Israel-Syria Text
President Clinton intervened in the West Virginia peace talks between Israel and Syria by presenting a seven-page working paper defining the differences over a deal that would return the Golan Heights to Syria. A6 

Arafat the Host
Civil and religious leaders from the Eastern Orthodox world attended a Christmas service in Bethlehem whose host is a Muslim, Yasir Arafat, the head of the Palestinian Authority, which governs Bethlehem. A6
 
Debate on Use of Jewish Funds
Birthright Israel, an effort to stem the erosion of Jewish communities abroad and the first of its kind to be financed by the Israeli government, has provoked heated debate in Jerusalem about the allocation of Jewish resources. A6
 
Pakistan Rejects Hijack Charge
Pakistani officials, responding to Indian accusations that Pakistan sponsored the hijacking of an Indian Airlines jet, said the charges were baseless and that India was making them to try to persuade other nations to declare Pakistan a terrorist state. A3
 
Downplaying Leader's Flight
Officials of the Dalai Lama's government in exile avoided detailed statements about the arrival in India of the 17th Karmapa, left, a 14-year-old Tibetan Buddhist leader who fled his Chinese-controlled homeland. Officials did say the Dalai Lama had met with the Karmapa. A4
 
Violence Increases in Namibia
Namibian authorities and foreign diplomats said the death toll in Namibia was mounting as Angola's protracted civil war spilled across the border, resulting in a spate of killings, kidnappings and violence on Namibian soil. A5
 
World Briefing A7
 
NATIONAL A8-11; 14
 
Gore Backs Off Stand On Gays in the Military
Vice President Al Gore backtracked on comments he made in a debate on Wednesday, when he said he would require any appointee to the Joint Chiefs of Staff to agree in advance to let gays to serve openly. He said he was misheard and "did not mean to imply that there should ever be any kind of inquiry into the personal political opinion of the officers." A1
 
Senator Weighs Departure
Senator Bob Kerrey, 56, of Nebraska, one of the Democrats' brightest stars, is considering leaving the Senate to become president of the New School University in Manhattan. A10
 
U.S. Limits Mexico Trucks
The Clinton administration, citing safety concerns, will not open all states to Mexican trucks and buses this month, as called for by Nafta. Mexico denounced the decision. A9
 
Measures to Fight Hackers
President Clinton proposed measures to combat intrusions into essential computer networks. A14
 
Changes in Army Recruiting
The Army will overhaul its advertising and marketing, deciding among other steps to end its Young & Rubicam contract and possibly drop the "Be All That You Can Be" slogan. A9
 
Judge Enters Refugee Case
A Florida judge in Miami judge said she would decide next week whether to grant legal guardianship to the great uncle of Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old refugee whom the Clinton administration says should be returned to his father in Cuba. A8
 
Expediting Death Row Appeals
Florida lawmakers approved a bill intended to speed the appeals process so that death row inmates could be executed more quickly. A1
 
Challenge to Test Rejected
A federal judge rejected a lawsuit asserting that an exam that Texas students must pass to graduate from high school discriminated against minority students. A8
 
ABC Agrees to Minority Plan
ABC announced a "statement of understanding" with the N.A.A.C.P. to increase minority hiring, similar to the group's agreement with NBC. A8
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
2 Fund Committees Aiding Giuliani Senate Effort
Mayor Giuliani, who is preparing to run for the Senate, has paid for much of his political operations with money collected through two committees subject to more lenient fund-raising limits than an official Senate campaign committee is. Aides said use of the committees was proper and that the F.E.C. had not objected. A1
 
Alternate-Side Changes
City officials will cut the period for alternate-side parking to 90 minutes on many streets and to 30 minutes on many commercial streets. B1
 
The Millennium Millionaire
Johnnie Ely, a 66-year-old cook from the South Bronx, is the winner of the New York State Millennium Millions game. His after-tax, lump sum payoff will be $27 million. B5
 
Beliefs B7
 
NEEDIEST CASES B6
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
A Harsh Flu Season
The federal Centers for Disease Control said this year's flu outbreak arrived much earlier than usual and had increased death rates from pneumonia and flu-related illness. A8
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Pitcher's Mental Testing
Atlanta's John Rocker went to Baltimore to begin psychological testing ordered by baseball officials following his disparaging remarks about gays and members of minorities. D1
 
OBITUARIES C15-16
 
Don Martin
The Mad magazine cartoonist whom the magazine billed as "Mad's maddest artist" was 68. C15
 
Robert McG. Thomas Jr.
A New York Times reporter who extended the possibilities of the conventional obituary form, he was 60. C16
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Unemployment Stays Down
Employers added jobs at a robust rate in December, creating 315,000 new nonfarm jobs, 75,000 more than economists had predicted. The unemployment rate remained at a 30-year low, 4.1 percent. The rate among black and Hispanic workers dropped to record lows. A1
 
Broad Market Rally
The Nasdaq soared 155.49 points, or 4.2 percent, to 3,882.62; the Dow rose 269.30 points, or 2.4 percent, to 11,522.56, a record, and the S.& P. 500 climbed 38.02 points, or 2.7 percent, to 1,441.47. C1
 
More Changes at Coke
Coca-Cola said its chief marketing officer, Charles S. Frenette, would become president of its troubled European operations. His successor in marketing is Stephen C. Jones, a veteran of Coke's business in Japan, long the biggest single profit source for the company. C1
 
Web Site's Owners Capitulate
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the big securities firm, won its fight to take possession of an Internet domain name that was said to have been registered for a California teenager's Web site dedicated to mountain biking -- www.msdwonline.com. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-22
 
EDITORIAL A12-13
 
Editorials: A plan for Governors Island; the debate over gay troops; a persistent war in Angola; conflicted auditors.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B21
 
TV Listings B22
 
Crossword B20
 
Weather C15
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); ISRAEL (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); NAMIBIA (94%); SYRIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); INDIA (92%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ANGOLA (79%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AIRLINES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); ISRAEL (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); NAMIBIA (94%); SYRIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); INDIA (92%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ANGOLA (79%); CHINA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (75%); RELIGION (74%); TERRORISM (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (56%); DALAI LAMA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



191 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Museum Project Boasts Money And Big Names, But No Museum

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER

DATELINE: ENFIELD, Conn., Jan. 7

 BODY:
Ever since the day in 1983 when residents broached the idea of building a National Purple Heart Museum here, the museum has remained just that: an idea -- whose time came, went and kept on going, for 17 years.
Despite an advisory panel that includes Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf and the actor James Garner, more than $1.2 million in state grants, and the support of Gov. John G. Rowland, the military museum today is little more than an aging set of computer-enhanced blueprints and an unfulfilled flight of fancy for an unknown town seeking a tourist lodestone. 
 A report this week by the Connecticut attorney general's office offers a detailed explanation of the reasons. According to the report, the 12-member board charged with planning, financing and building the $18.75 million museum was so incompetent that it frittered away more than $500,000 in public and private funds and allowed the museum's former executive director to handle tens of thousands of dollars in ways that would make any banker shriek with horror.
"Management was inept and shoddy, and record keeping was completely inadequate; accounting was essentially incompetent," the attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, said in a telephone interview today. "We believe the blame lies with the board."
The museum was conceived as a one-of-a-kind shrine of history and memorabilia dedicated to the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have received the Purple Heart medal, which is awarded to members of the military wounded in battle. The museum was to be situated in this middle-class town of shopping malls on the Massachusetts border, because according to local lore this is where Gen. George Washington in 1774 enlisted one of the first soldiers to receive the medal.
State officials were so enthusiastic about the museum that the powerful State Bond Commission, headed by the governor, voted in 1998 to grant $1 million to make it a reality. The names of General Schwarzkopf, Mr. Garner and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman were featured in brochures as members of the museum's prestigious panel of advisers. Town officials envisioned streams of tourist dollars.
But none of the glitter and high hopes, Mr. Blumenthal says, could offset the gross financial ineptitude of the museum's directors, 10 of whom are veterans of World War II and the wars in Korea and Vietnam.
To date, the board has spent more than $500,000, mostly in state grants, for about $33,000 worth of architectural plans, Mr. Blumenthal said. Shoddy bookkeeping and a lack of the most fundamental accounting measures make it unclear what happened to the rest of the money, he said. Despite their bad judgment, Mr. Blumenthal said, board members had only the best intentions for the museum.
Many of the financial problems were tied to the dealings of the museum's former executive director, Joseph Donohue, who according to the state report was hired in 1997 without a contract, used state grant money to pay his personal health insurance premiums and federal tax bills, and often filtered private donations to the museum through his own bank accounts.
In one convoluted exchange in 1998 that Mr. Blumenthal said typified Mr. Donohue's method of handling the museum's money, he cashed a $6,000 check given to him by a private museum donor and simply kept $500 of it. Mr. Donohue then deposited the remaining $5,500 into the museum's bank account, then wired it -- minus a $15 wire fee -- to his wife's bank account in Texas, Mr. Blumenthal said.
"There needs to be much stronger oversight so as to assure competent management," Mr. Blumenthal said. He added that he had referred his findings about Mr. Donohue, who resigned as executive director of the museum in April, to Connecticut's chief state's attorney, John Bailey, for possible criminal prosecution.
Mr. Donohue, who now works in Washington, could not be reached for comment today. But his successor, and the museum board's current executive director, Charles Alfano, called Mr. Blumenthal's report "flawed" and said it gave the false impression that hundreds of thousands of dollars had been wasted. In fact, Mr. Alfano said, mismanagement by the board, which he said has been corrected, added up to less than $20,000.
The $6,000 Mr. Donohue ran through his and his wife's accounts, he added, was meant as a salary payment to him, even though it came directly from a private donor. "That was his money legitimately," said Mr. Alfano, a volunteer, "but he used poor judgment in how he handled it."
Mr. Blumenthal said he began investigating the Purple Heart Museum project about three months ago, after complaints from contributors and volunteers began filtering into his office. Since then, the state Department of Economic and Community Development has stopped the disbursement of the $825,000 in remaining state grant money until the museum can prove it will be managed prudently.
Since Wednesday, when the attorney general's report was made public, Mr. Alfano has been meeting with state and town officials to coax them into releasing the money. Once that begins, he said, the museum will send out 125,000 direct-mail solicitations for donations and begin mapping out a fund-raising strategy with a California public relations firm that has agreed to work at no charge.
"We're ready to kick off our national campaign in early spring," Mr. Alfano said. "If all went well, we probably could have broken ground in May 2001." But, he added, "We can't move forward unless we get the remainder of the state grant." The earliest the museum may be ready for visitors is in late 2002, he said.
For now, the land reserved for the museum remains an expanse of scrub stuck between a nursing home, a cemetery and the southbound lanes of Interstate 91.
How much of the $18.75 million cost the museum board has on hand even Mr. Alfano did not know today. But, he said, "We probably could get by with $15 million."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Connecticut highlighting Enfield: Enfield, Mass., has been pursuing a military museum for 17 years. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); VETERANS (71%); KOREAN WAR (71%); TOURISM (70%); CITIES (70%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (78%); JOE LIEBERMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



192 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Investor Ordered To Give Up Gold

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A judge yesterday ordered a renowned market forecaster to produce $16 million worth of gold bars and rare antiquities in an attempt to recover the assets of investors who allegedly were bilked out of about $1 billion.
The forecaster, Martin A. Armstrong, 50, the founder of Princeton Economics International in Princeton, N.J., violated a court order to turn over the valuables to a court-appointed receiver, the judge ruled. Mr. Armstrong was ordered to produce them by Tuesday afternoon. 
 Prosecutors said they believe Mr. Armstrong has 102 bars of gold, a $750,000 bust of Julius Caesar, hundreds of rare coins, a bronze helmet and other antiques.
Mr. Armstrong, who is free on a $5 million bond, had no comment following the hearing, but his lawyer, Lawrence S. Feld, said, "Mr. Armstrong has authorized me to say that he will turn over whatever is in his possession."
Mr. Armstrong has pleaded innocent to fraud charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the United States Attorney.
Mr. Armstrong's companies raised $1 billion from Japanese corporate investors to invest in safe bonds. Instead, he made risky bets on currencies and derivatives, the authorities said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); FUTURES (78%); JUDGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); 

PERSON: MARTIN A ARMSTRONG (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000



193 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: January 9, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	16	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $5.99.) A British boy attends a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	8	THE GREEN MILE, by Stephen King. (Pocket, $7.99.) A six-part thriller set on death row at Cold Mountain Penitentiary.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	4	SEIZE THE NIGHT, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $7.99.) Christopher Snow seeks to discover why children in his hometown keep disappearing.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	3	SOUTHERN CROSS, by Patricia Cornwell. (Berkley, $7.99.) A former police chief finds herself summoned to Richmond, Va., to clean up scandalous conditions.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	3	A MAP OF THE WORLD, by Jane Hamilton. (Anchor, $12.95.) When a dairy farmer's wife makes a mistake one morning, her life falls apart.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	7	TOM CLANCY'S POWER PLAYS: Shadow Watch, created by Tom Clancy and Martin Greenberg. (Berkley, $7.99.) Terrorists target a space station project in 2001.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	6	JEWELS OF THE SUN, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.50.) A woman finds romance in Ireland.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	7	VINEGAR HILL, by A. Manette Ansay. (Avon, $13.) A woman moves with her children and unemployed husband to live with his loveless family.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	4	LEFT BEHIND, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $13.99.) Life as lived by those who survive a global cataclysm. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 10	8	MIRROR IMAGE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.99.) Identical twin sisters experience dissimilar lives.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	3	WELCOME TO THE WORLD, BABY GIRL! by Fannie Flagg. (Ballantine, $7.50.) The pleasures and problems of a rising star in television news.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	42	MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Vintage, $14.) A young woman in Kyoto has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	11	THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, by Barbara Kingsolver. (HarperPerennial, $14.) Five female characters narrate a novel set in the Belgian Congo during that country's fight for independence.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	72	SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS, by David Guterson. (Vintage, $14.) A murder trial recalls the wartime internment of Japanese-Americans. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 15	2	 *A SUDDEN CHANGE OF HEART, by Barbara Taylor Bradford. (Dell, $7.99.) When tragedy strikes, a woman turns to her best friend, an art dealer, for help.		 	 	 	 	 		Weeks	 	Last	On	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	31	ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/S&S, $14 and $7.99.) An Irish-American writer recalls his childhood in Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	60	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/S&S, $12.) Enhancing daily activities. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	82	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (HarperPerennial, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	26	OUR DUMB CENTURY, edited by Scott Dikkers. (Three Rivers, $15.) Newspaper headlines making fun of the great events of the past century.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	12	BLIND MAN'S BLUFF, by Sherry Sontag and Christopher Drew with Annette Lawrence Drew. (HarperPaperbacks, $7.99.) Submarine espionage.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	34	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) Hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	17	THE PROFESSOR AND THE MADMAN, by Simon Winchester. (HarperPerennial, $13.) How a murderer helped compile the O.E.D.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	90	INTO THIN AIR, by Jon Krakauer. (Anchor, $7.99.) Ascending Mount Everest in 1996.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	86	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 10	39	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEl, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geography. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 11	37	THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life in foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 12	4	ENDURANCE, by Alfred Lansing. (Carroll & Graf, $12.95.) Ernest Shackleton's 1914 expedition.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	67	THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR, by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko. (Pocket, $14.) An analysis of the lives of wealthy Americans. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 14	19	OPHELIA SPEAKS, by Sara Shandler. (HarperPerennial, $12.95.) Adolescent girls discuss their feelings about themselves and about life. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 15	24	MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL, by John Berendt. (Vintage, $12.) The mysterious death of a young man in Savannah, Ga.		 	 	 	 	 	 16	10	 *THE GIFTS OF THE JEWS, by Thomas Cahill. (Talese/Anchor, $14.) What Western civilization owes an ancient nomadic tribe.		 	 	 	 	 	 17	116	 *UNDER THE TUSCAN SUN, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $13.) Life in the Italian countryside.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 1	4	THE WORLD ALMANAC AND BOOK OF FACTS 2000. (World Almanac, $10.95.) The latest edition of a reference work issued annually since 1868. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	10	THE OFFICIAL POKEMON HANDBOOK, by Maria S. Barbo. (Scholastic, $9.99.) A guide to the characters currently popular with children.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	18	CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE MOTHER'S SOUL, compiled by Jack Canfield et al. (Health Communications, $12.95.) Inspiration. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	63	CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE TEENAGE SOUL, compiled by Jack Canfield, Mark Victor Hansen and Kimberly Kirberger. (Health Communications, $12.95.) Inspirational stories. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Dec. 25, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (66%); BELGIUM (51%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: IMAGE BY DESIGN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (66%); BELGIUM (51%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); WOMEN (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); SPACE EXPLORATION (65%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ART DEALERS (60%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); MURDER (56%); POLICE FORCES (54%); TERRORISM (51%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); J K ROWLING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



194 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Everything Is Rotten in the State of Florida

BYLINE: By Joe Queenan; Joe Queenan writes a bimonthly column for GQ. His book "My Goodness: A Cynic's Short-Lived Search for Sainthood" will be published in February.

 BODY:

Sick Puppy
 By Carl Hiaasen.
 341 pp. New York:
 Alfred A. Knopf. $25. 
 TRADITIONALLY, citizens of this great country have believed that the most horrible Americans live in Washington, New York or Los Angeles. For the past few years, Carl Hiaasen, a longtime resident of South Florida, has been laboring to correct this misimpression. In books like "Strip Tease" and "Tourist Season," he has made a persuasive case that the most barbaric, ignorant and just plain awful people living in this country today reside, nay flourish, in the state of Florida. And now, with "Sick Puppy," he may have finally clinched the argument.
As with Hiaasen's previous novels, "Sick Puppy" begins with an absurd premise and then gets nuttier. Palmer Stoat, an appalling human being, chucks some litter out his window while cruising down the freeway. Not even aware that Stoat is a crooked lobbyist and butcher of defenseless animals, Twilly Spree, an emotionally unstable tree-hugger seated in the vehicle directly behind him, decides to trash Stoat's car, vandalize his house, kidnap his dog and seduce his wife. Spree, who once took a court-ordered course in anger management after blowing up his uncle's bank, has a lot of time on his hands.
In the course of his depredations, Spree discovers that Stoat is pals with Florida's corrupt governor. He thereupon informs Stoat that if he ever wishes to see his dog again, he must persuade the governor to deep-six a new development that will further despoil the Florida wilderness. Now the narrative is invaded by an unusually psychopathic hit man who likes to listen to 911 calls made by people who are in the process of being murdered, in some cases with fondue forks; a drug lord turned real estate developer who is determined to surgically transform two hookers into human Barbie dolls; the Barbie dolls themselves, who become addicted to the aphrodisiac powers of the rhinoceros horn; and a swamp-dwelling vigilante who turns out to be the previous governor of Florida. Much mayhem ensues.
Hiaasen is often likened to Elmore Leonard, but this comparison goes only so far. Despite the similarity of the milieus in which they operate, Leonard is a far more economical writer than Hiaasen, perhaps persuaded that brevity is the soul of wit. And in his best books, such as "Get Shorty," Leonard achieves a much wider satirical sweep. This is largely because Leonard's characters, even the most depraved, are more believable; Hiaasen's stock in trade is to assemble a menagerie of stereotypes -- the crooked developer, the sleazy politician, the deranged environmentalist -- and then fish-gut them. Unwilling to go completely over the top, Leonard is much closer to Thomas Berger or Donald Westlake; Hiaasen is closer to Harry Crews and Eugene Ionesco. This is, by the way, very good company.
Among the delights of "Sick Puppy" are the subplots that enliven the proceedings. One concerns Stoat's efforts to locate a passive rhinoceros that the real estate developer can kill in a staged big-game hunt somewhere in the wilds of Florida. Another concerns the current governor's peculiar relationship with the previous governor, who at one point tosses him onto the floor, drags down his trousers and seems poised to re-enact one of the least appetizing scenes from the film "Deliverance." As the incumbent puts it:
"Even worse than the threat of public humiliation was the potential political fallout. Was Florida ready to re-elect a defiled chief executive? Dick Artemus had his doubts. He remembered how the audience felt about the Ned Beatty character at the end of the movie -- you were sorry for the guy, but no one was standing in line for his next canoe trip."
A sick puppy, indeed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); WRITERS (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (64%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); TOURISM (57%); 

PERSON: CARL HIAASEN (92%); PALMER STOAT (90%); ELMORE JOHN LEONARD JR (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



195 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 10; Column 6; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: BLACKBOARD: PHILANTHROPY;
Education . . . Capitalist Tool

BYLINE: By Davidson Goldin

 BODY:
Venture capitalists who have helped make I.P.O. a synonym for fast cash are betting their investment skills will translate to education.
John Doerr, the money man behind success stories like Amazon.com, and a dozen other entrepreneurs have created the nation's first venture capital fund for education, the New Schools Venture Fund. 
 The fund solicits tax-deductible gifts to "invest" in nonprofit educational ventures, either through grants or low-interest loans, and makes traditional investments in for-profit schools in the hopes they will generate revenue. But any profits are reinvested in education. The arrangement, known as a venture philanthropy fund, is increasingly common as a way to finance charitable causes.
The bottom line is "a social return on our investment, not making money on our investment," says Kim Smith, a co-founder of Teach for America and of New Schools.
The idea for the fund, which has raised $10 million to date, evolved after a meeting with Vice President Al Gore, for whom Mr. Doerr is a prominent fund raiser. He remembers Mr. Gore asking, "If you Silicon Valley types are so smart, why can't you do something about education?" Mr. Doerr sought help at Stanford Business School, where Ms. Smith was working on her M.B.A. She devised the fund's structure and outlined a business strategy -- in short, to invest in ventures whose concepts can be expanded nationwide.
New Schools has made four major investments: a $500,000 grant to University Public Schools, which operates charter schools in California that focus on college preparation; a $1 million loan at 3 percent interest to a literacy program run by Johns Hopkins University; a $1 million investment in Learn Now, a for-profit company trying to start charter schools in New York City with a technology and math focus; and a $100,000 grant to greatschools.net, a Web site devoted to California schools.
"The fund's an equal opportunity investor," Mr. Doerr said. "It doesn't care if an entrepreneur is for-profit or not-for-profit, as long as the goal is to improve education on a large scale." DAVIDSON GOLDIN 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: L JOHN DOERR (90%); AL GORE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



196 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 15; Column 1; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE PREP;
Dear Admissions Committee:

BYLINE: By GLENN C. ALTSCHULER; Glenn C. Altschuler is both the dean of the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions and the Thomas and Dorothy Litwin Professor of American Studies at Cornell University.

 BODY:
Last year, a colleague asked for my advice about his son's application to Harvard. He suspected a teacher had written a less-than-stellar letter of recommendation and wondered whether he should call undergraduate admissions in Cambridge to try to persuade a secretary to yank it from the boy's folder.
Professors of politics may be more paranoid than parents in other professions, and considerably more Machiavellian. But in the importance he attached to the letter of recommendation, my colleague was no different from thousands of high school students and interested adults. 
 He need not have worried. Most recommendations do not help, and they virtually never harm, college applicants.
William Hiss, the vice president for administrative services at Bates College, advised students and teachers as dean of admissions for 20 years. Mr. Hiss tells teachers to be "cautious about making red-flag comments" about a student's personal and disciplinary problems. One misstep, and litigation is likely, he says, citing the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, Americans With Disabilities Act and state statutes on the confidentiality of discipline records.
On academic matters, too, the epistolary equivalent of grade inflation has set in. As a member of Cornell University's admissions committee for a decade, I would search applications in vain for even subordinate clauses like "While Susan did not participate often in discussions." With such Boy Scout merit-badge recommendations as "Josh is courteous, kind, resourceful, thrifty and brave," to quote one recent submission to Cornell, little wonder most letters have no impact on the fate of an applicant.
In an informal survey of several dozen high school teachers last semester, almost all said they see their role as helping students get into the college of their choice, not helping institutions select the best-qualified candidates. They also write upbeat letters for anyone who asks. (Popular teachers might evaluate three dozen students a year; guidance counselors as many as 150.)
"I emphasize the best qualities I perceive," said one advanced-placement history teacher at Norman Thomas High School in Manhattan. "I ignore the negative, even when I'm well aware of it."
The results are brief essays that differ little, if at all, from one another. With so many recommendations opening with, "The first words that come to mind when I think of X are . . . ," one wonders if there's a software package out there facilitating the formulaic. Gerry Cox, an admissions dean at Cornell, says he dismisses missives with generic content when considering applicants. "The more they sound alike, the less difference they make," he says.
Some letters, however, do make a difference. While no recommendation will complete a Hail Mary pass, in colleges and universities with many more applicants than spaces in the freshman class, a thoughtful, detailed letter can make a qualified student stand out.
But pressed for time and inspiration, teachers may need help in this mission. Instructions on application forms are vague. Cornell, which guarantees confidentiality by promising teachers it will "destroy all subjective evaluations after the selection process is over," asks only for candid comments on "intellectual and personal promise" and "qualities that make this candidate unique."
To increase your chances of getting an effective recommendation, you do not have to take your daughter's social studies teacher out to dinner come application time, as a set of panicked parents at Scarsdale High School recently did. Here are a few dos and don'ts for students and teachers:
* Waive your right to see letters written on your behalf. The risk that the contents are damaging is slight, and admissions committee members give greater credibility to confidential communications.
* Do not submit more than two or three letters, unless you are certain they are all insightful gems. There is much truth in the admissions adage, "The thicker the folder, the thicker the applicant."
* Unless they know you, do not solicit letters from graduates of the university to which you are applying, your parents' business or law partners, members of Congress, governors, ex-presidents of the United States or titans of telecommunications. A recommendation letter from an eminent person who is not well acquainted with you will be a perfunctory testimonial. Remember, too, that generous donors have an impact, if at all, only on the applications of their own children.
* Employers can help if they supervised you themselves. A few years ago, a roofer wrote about a young man from a comfortably middle-class family who had worked as a manual laborer one summer, carrying shingles up the ladders to the more skilled roofers. To the surprise of his boss, "the kid" worked without complaint through stifling heat when several of the more experienced crew groused, took long lunches and asked to leave early. I have seen few letters address motivation more effectively. Cornell admitted the young man.
* The most influential letters of recommendation are filled with concrete details and a comparative assessment of the applicant. Supply teachers with copies of essays you have written for their classes, descriptions of science projects and other quotable material. Perhaps you'll get a letter like this one, submitted with an application to Brown University: "Stefan used spirituals, sermons and slave narratives in an essay about dissimulation, double-entendre and psychological resistance among African-Americans before the Civil War. Deftly crafting his own interpretation of the slave personality, he was unafraid to challenge the assumptions of the distinguished scholars Stanley Elkins and Eugene Genovese. The result was one of the two finest papers in the junior class." Brown accepted the student, even though his high school grades were not outstanding.
* The same specificity can be used to describe activities outside of class, as this recent recommendation did from a teacher at the Commonwealth School in Boston: "Noah was the organizing spirit behind our weekly luncheon discussion group that brought speakers to the school. The kind of student who read the whole book, even when a chapter is assigned, Noah was the most incisive and well-informed questioner in such public assemblies, whether the speaker was a law professor or an ecology activist."
* If teachers ask for your high school transcript and a list of extracurricular activities, remind them, in a tone that is at once deferential, diplomatic and direct, that either a guidance counselor will make a general assessment, or members of the admissions committee will have this information and can interpret it for themselves. Ask the teachers instead to focus on particular academic and personal skills drawn from observation in the classroom and evaluation of exams, essays and lab assignments.
* With recommendations, as with every other component of a college application, strategy and tactics are no substitute for performance. Those who do their very best give their teachers the material for an excellent evaluation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Adams)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); US FAMILY EDUCATIONAL RIGHTS & PRIVACY ACT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); HISTORY (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (68%); LITIGATION (53%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



197 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2604 words

HEADLINE: Frugal Traveler;
Amid Traffic and Glitches, Manila Offers an Embrace

BYLINE: By DAISANN McLANE

 BODY:
GO on . . . go ahead and dance with Alberto," urged Mrs. Besa, gently nudging me toward a lithe, middle-aged man wearing baggy pleated trousers and shiny loafers. I tried to demur, but my protests were muffled by thumping bass and drums and blasting trumpets -- a disco version of "Malaguena."
I bit my lip, checked my embarrassment, and acceded, limply offering my hand to Mrs. Besa's dance instructor (or D.I.), who immediately proceeded to pull my arm from its socket as if it were the string of a top and snap my severely jet-lagged body into a series of athletic whirls straight out of the John Travolta manual. Just six hours after arriving in the Philippines from New York, here I was, spinning under a disco ball on a November Saturday night in Manila. 
 "Manila?" friends in New York said disbelievingly when I told them of my plans to visit the Philippine capital for five days as the first stop of a six-week trip to three countries in Southeast Asia. Even many of the Filipino acquaintances whom I contacted for tips before leaving hinted that I should skip through the city as quickly as possible as I made my way to the Philippines' major attraction: its rural southern islands.
On paper, it is true, Manila didn't appear to have much tourist appeal. Most of its fine Spanish Colonial buildings and prewar neighborhoods had been flattened by American and Japanese bombs in World War II, and its infrastructure was eroded by years of political turmoil, corruption and neglect. The traffic jams, my sources said, made the snarls of Bombay or Bangkok look like a Sunday drive. And I was crestfallen to discover that one of the Manila sights at the top of my list, the shoe collection of Imelda Marcos, had been discreetly removed from display in the Presidential Palace museum after she returned to the political scene.
But I've learned not to judge a place by appearances, because my most interesting experiences often happen in the least likely locations. What's more, I had a personal connection with Manila. For 14 years, I had rented an apartment in a two-family house in Brooklyn owned and occupied by a Filipino-American couple, Amy Besa and Romy Dorotan. I was a frequent guest in their kitchen, where I learned how to dip my spring rolls in garlic-flavored vinegar, enjoy the crackly skin of lechon (the roast suckling pig that is the centerpiece of a big Filipino meal), and to bravely savor the lethally fishy aroma of bagoong, a Filipino shrimp paste. Amy and Romy introduced me to their extended families and to friends who came to visit from back home. All had proper Spanish first names -- Vicente or Reynaldo, Consuelo or Antonio -- that no one ever used. Instead, everyone called each other by euphonious Filipino nicknames like Binky, Ching, Ding or Dong.
To say that Filipino hospitality is expansive is an understatement -- it rolls forward like a juggernaut. Within hours after telling Amy that I was planning a visit to Manila, she sent a list of phone numbers by e-mail -- her brother Binky, her mother (Mrs. Besa) and assorted cousins, in-laws and friends. All had been put on red alert to expect my arrival, and I knew from experience what that meant: food. New Yorkers have cocktail parties, Filipinos have feasts. I ruefully realized that I'd just doomed a handful of squealing piglets to the chopping block, and I could forget about my plans to shed those pesky five pounds in Asia.
When I got over the guilt, I set about organizing my Manila hotels.
One bonus of traveling in Southern Asia is the affordability of luxury accommodation. In London or Venice, $80 a night gets a minuscule room that might not have a toilet; in Asia, with luck and planning, that same amount could land a five-star palace. One evening while surfing the Internet, I hit upon an online hotel broker, Asia Travel (www.asiatravel.com) that proved to be a mother lode of great bargains in Manila and beyond (they deal with hotels in most major Asian cities).
The site listed various hotels at discounts. For $82 a night, including taxes, I could have a room at the five-star Pan Pacific, one of the newest hotels in Manila (it has a rack rate upward of $150). I sent an e-mail message to the agent at Asia Travel, and asked about dates. She replied the next day and said I could have the three nights I wanted. There was a catch: I had to pay in advance, either by credit card, Western Union or bank transfer, to get the special rate. I hesitated, wondering whether to risk such an online transaction with a company I didn't know, but I decided to go ahead and pay with my credit card. The swift responses, friendly letters and faxed confirmation of my payment reassured me.
I figured that three nights in a luxury hotel would help me get over the stress of 25 hours of flying and an 11-hour time difference. For the remaining two nights, I'd move down-market, relying on legwork and word of mouth to find cheaper hotels, since the guidebooks I found were several years out of date.
Besides the discount, there was another advantage to staying at the Pan Pacific: location. One reason Manila traffic is so bad is that the city is a splinter of satellite districts, connected by inadequate roads. The old walled Spanish Colonial downtown, Intramuros, is where you want to be for sightseeing because it has most of the city's historic treasures.
But it has almost no restaurants and one small hotel. Business visitors usually pick the expensive hotels in the Houston-like skyscraper district of Makati, six miles and 60 minutes by cab from downtown.
The Pan Pacific, however, is in Malate, a neighborhood more or less in the middle of greater Manila that in the 50's was an upper middle class suburb. That was when Mrs. Besa, and her husband, both doctors, built their two-story house on Nakpil Street, which is now around the corner from the Pan Pacific. Manila's urban sprawl overran the area and many residents fled to the gated enclaves and shopping malls of Makati. Long neglected, Malate has recently found a second life as a district of restaurants, bars and clubs. The hip scene in Manila has shifted from Makati malls to Nakpil nights. The Besa home now stands, incongruously, on a street jammed with trendy places to eat, dance and drink.
"Out there are the denizens of the night," bemoaned the elegantly attired Mrs. Besa, sweeping her hand in a grand gesture toward her balcony windows. Already, Nakpil had begun to buzz with traffic and revelry. Her son, Binky, had a more pragmatic attitude toward his neighborhood's transformation. "There are lots of excellent restaurants here now that you can walk to, and I know the good ones," he said. "What kind of food would you like to eat?"
Binky assured me that the prices, even in the fanciest places, would be far below what I would expect in New York. He was right.
Our bill in Bistro Remedios, a restaurant specializing in upscale versions of Filipino dishes like a rich goat stew, and a hearty mix of taro leaves and coconut milk, came to $29 for two, including two rounds of beers, tax and tip. On subsequent evenings, the biggest check we managed to run up (for three courses and a bottle of Chilean merlot) was $55. This was at Sala, a fashionable restaurant decorated in Miami mint greens that served first-rate eclectic food, like perfectly grilled lamb on a bed of couscous with sun-dried tomatoes, and walnut baklava with homemade ginger ice cream. I liked Sala so much that I went back for lunch, which is an even better deal -- four courses, for a prix-fixe $16.50.
My faith in Asia Travel wasn't misplaced -- the Pan Pacific reservation was in order when I arrived. The marble tub in the bathroom won me over, but the dirty scuff marks on the lemon-yellow walls and the stained bedspread didn't. If this were a cut-rate hotel, I wouldn't have cared, but the Pan Pacific is a deluxe hotel about two years old. Later, I found that the front desk had lost one of my messages.
The Pan Pacific's slightly frayed edges, I soon discovered, are not unusual in Manila. Negotiating daily life takes energy and patience, even at the top end of the economic ladder. Power failures are unremarkable occurrences.
Potholed streets become lakes in the rain. There are few public buses, but rather a confusion of brightly painted converted trucks called jeepneys, run by private operators.
With high hopes, I moved to the Hotel Intramuros, a new small hotel in a converted old mansion in the historic district. How perfect, I thought, when I saw the big room with Spanish-style furniture and windows overlooking a cobblestone street (a single cost $45). I dropped off my luggage and got into sightseeing mode. Just across the street was Manila's oldest church, the Spanish Colonial San Agustin Cathedral, which has remained intact since 1599, through earthquakes, invasions and bombardments. Inside, in a small church museum, was a fantastic collection of centuries-old hand-carved wooden saints, or santos, similar to the religious sculptures found in Latin America, but much more detailed and luminous, with shining eyes fabricated from glass.
Strolling in Intramuros brought me back to walks I'd taken in the colonial districts of Cartagena, Santo Domingo and Old San Juan -- I was intrigued at how the Spaniards (who ruled here for over 300 years) had managed to build nearly exactly the same cityscape half a world away.
I walked through Fort Santiago, where the father of Philippine independence from Spain, Dr. Jose Rizal, had been imprisoned and executed. The footsteps of Rizal's final walk to the firing squad have been painted on the cobblestones in yellow.
The buildings were generally in good condition. With a touch of improvement here and there, some new shops and restaurants, Intramuros could be a really lovely district, a central Manila tourist attraction.
Then I returned to my hotel room, where a sewerlike smell wafted out from the bathroom, and the water had stopped working. The desk clerk told me -- politely and regretfully -- that they didn't know when the water would be on again. Oh, Manila. Gritting my teeth, I packed up my belongings and made plans to move to another hotel the next day.
"We're off the tourist track for you because we're Asian, but we're not exotic like Thailand -- we're too much like America," Mark Medina explained as we drove through Makati on the way to his family's farm in Pampanga province, on the city's outskirts. (In typical Manila fashion, my phone call to Mark's mother, a Filipina journalist I'd met in New York, had turned into an impromptu invitation to come out to the country with 12 other friends on Sunday and eat all day.) Looking out the window at the spewing concrete fountains of Makati's Las Vegasy Peninsula Hotel, I could see his point.

BUT later, lazing in a cane planters chair in the huge dining room of his family's old wooden and thatch house in the shadow of Mount Arayat, recovering from a marathon feed of roast lechon in a Pampanga-style liver sauce, it seemed to me that colonial Spain, not the United States, had the deeper influence here in Manila. For better and for worse: from the warmth and hospitality of extended families like this one that made visiting Manila such a pleasure, to the legacy of cronyism and corruption that made traveling in Manila so challenging.
In five days, I got a pretty good initiation into the life of the city. I'd gone ballroom dancing, eaten my way along Nakpil Street, spent a Sunday in the country, and worn out shoe leather exploring colonial streets. There was only one key experience missing, and on my last afternoon, heading for the airport and a flight to the Philippine islands of the Visayas, I filled that gap: I got stalled in a world-class traffic jam.
As the taxi crawled, millimeter by millimeter, along the bayside Roxas Boulevard, I ran the gamut of emotions in 45 minutes, from boredom to minor irritation, to full-blown, finger-hammering frustration. My taxi driver, meanwhile, cheerfully sang along with the radio, and no one in the jam so much as tooted a horn. In that moment, I was glad I'd ignored the naysayers and gotten to know Manila. I made a silent wish that my Manila friends would someday have a city as hospitable and charming as they are. Then I let my imagination lift my taxi like a helicopter out of Manila's snarl, toward islands and beaches, due south.
 
The bottom line in Manila
 
I spent about $82.50 a day on hotels, taxis, meals and activities in Manila.
 
Air Fare
The San Francisco air ticket consolidator Adventure Travel Network, (800) 467-4595, www.atntravel.com, is an excellent source for deals to Asia. They quickly booked a New York-Manila-Bangkok-New York round-trip fare of $1,250 that combined legs with Cathay Pacific and Thai Airways.
 
Hotels
The online travel agency Asia Travel, www.asiatravel.com, specializes in deeply discounted rooms all over Asia. In Manila, they found a rate of $82, with tax, at the Pan Pacific, Adriatico at Malvar Street, Malate, Manila; telephone (63-2) 536 0788, fax (63-2) 536 6220.
The Hotel Intramuros, Urandeta and Cabildo Street on Plaza San Luis, Intramuros, Manila, (63-2) 524 6730, fax (63-2) 527 5093, in a renovated old mansion in the heart of the historic district, has spacious rooms, Spanish-style furniture and views of the old city. But I had no water.
In desperation, I searched Adriatico Street in the Ermita-Malate district. There are many inexpensive business hotels along that strip, but most were filled. I found a room at the Palm Plaza, Pedro Gil at Adriatico, Malate, (63-2) 521 3502, fax (63-2) 524 8384, an older high-rise with decent, if somewhat dusty, rooms -- and a hot shower. The price: $38 a night with tax.
 
Restaurants
At Sala, 610 Nakpil, Malate, (63-2) 524 6770, a three-course dinner for two with a bottle of wine cost $55. A four-course lunch is $16.50.
Bistro Remedios, 1911 Adriatico in Malate, (63-2) 523 9153, specializes in haute versions of Filipino cuisine. Dinner for two with several beers came to $29.
The current craze for Cuban culture has reached Manila. Cafe Havana, (63-2) 521 8097, next door to Bistro Remedios, is a theme restaurant in the style of the Bodeguita del Medio. The dishes were sweeter and less piquant than in Cuba. Lunch for one came to $15, with tip.
 
Activities
Ballroom dancing is de rigueur for Manila's fine ladies; many have instructors on 24-hour call. I spent an enjoyable evening mamboing and foxtrotting at the GQ club, 1179 Quezon Avenue, Quezon City, with a live band, a disco ball and a squadron of dance instructors (D.I.'s) who charge $7.50 an hour. The cover is $5, beers about $1.50.
Admission to San Agustin church is free; the adjacent museum with its excellent collection of antique santos charges $1.10.
Next to the Hotel Intramuros, in the same courtyard complex, is Casa Manila, a beautifully restored 19th-century colonial mansion replete with period antiques and fittings. Admission: $1
Admission to Fort Santiago is $1.
 
Getting Around
Manila taxi drivers have a reputation for being sharks, but I found most of them friendly and professional. Insist that the driver turn on his meter (they always complied), and it is hard to spend more than $3 on an average ride from, say, Makati to Malate. Airport transfers are negotiable, ranging from $4 for a metered ride from Malate to $8.25 (a hired car from the airport desk). Try to avoid rush hours, and have a map and an idea of how to get where you are going, since drivers often don't. DAISANN McLANE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The courtyard of San Agustin. A farm in Pampanga, with Mount Arayat on the horizon. Fruit vendors in Intramuros area of Manila.; Jeepneys passing the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Makati. (Photographs by Daisann McLane) (pg. 6); The author's room at the Pan Pacific Hotel. (Daisann McLane) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DANCE EDUCATION (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); DANCE (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); FOOTWEAR (72%); FAMILY (69%); WORLD WAR II (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN TRAVOLTA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



198 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 3; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Showcasing a Century of Design

BYLINE: By Eric P. Nash

 BODY:
Chicago, the cradle of modern American architecture, is the site of an ambitious exhibition, "At the End of the Century: One Hundred Years of Architecture."
The emphasis of the show, which runs through Feb. 27 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, is on broad themes in architectural and urban thinking, including the Bauhaus movement, Internationalism, the evolution of suburbs, and the trend toward themes or "Disneyfication" as epitomized by recent Las Vegas casino hotels. Scale models, photographs, film footage, drawings, furniture and architectural sketches are among the exhibits. 
 In a segment on the politics of monumentality in the 1930's, connections are drawn between the colossal scale of Fascist architecture such as Hitler's grandiose vision of the Nazi capital Germania, and projects such as Hoover Dam, which was, according to the program notes, "equally intended to demonstrate the strength and stability of government during a time of economic crises and social upheaval."
A companion exhibition focusing on current work in Chicago, "Material Evidence: Chicago Architecture at 2000," deals with millennial design and fascination with new technologies and materials: one firm is experimenting with a pneumatic membrane that has the properties of a soap bubble for constructing bus-stop shelters, and another has designed a newsstand that doubles as a digital information display.
The architects Frank Gehry and Zaha Hadid, who recently won the design competition for a Center of Contemporary Arts in Rome, are scheduled to speak, and there will be a tour of Chicago's architectural jewels from the Loop to Hyde Park and the Gold Coast.
The museum, at 220 East Chicago Avenue, (312) 280-2660, is open Wednesday to Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays are free, and open until 8 p.m. Admission is $7. ERIC P. NASH
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: FROM LEFT, Viceroy's Palace, New Delhi, by Sir Edwin Lutyens; Shizuoka Press and Broadcasting Center, Tokyo, by Kenzo Tange; Las Vegas. (Arthur Gill/British Architectural Library, RIBA, London; Osamu Murai; Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (69%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (69%); 

COMPANY: HYDE PARK MARKETS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (69%); NEVADA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MILLENNIUM (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); EVIDENCE (75%); TRENDS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); 

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (57%); SCOTT BROWN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



199 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2776 words

HEADLINE: Finland's Forte

BYLINE: By Geoffrey Wheatcroft; Geoffrey Wheatcroft is the author of "The Controversy of Zion."

 BODY:
After the shattering final chords of Jean Sibelius's symphonic poem "Kullervo" had died away, there was a shimmer of silence before the applause began. It was the sign of a good performance -- and of a good audience. This was one of the last concerts of the 1999 Helsinki Festival, and I was part of a large crowd gathered inside the handsome Johanneksen Kirrko, or St. John's Church. The setting was doubly apt. For many Europeans and Americans, art has become a 20th-century substitute for religion, attested to by the fact that churches are everywhere used
for musical performances. But Finland is something else again: a country where classical music could properly be called the true secular faith. 
 Drifting out that September night with the rest of the audience onto Korkeavuorenkatu, the street that runs from the great leafy Esplanade down to the sea, I thought not so much of Sibelius as of his successors -- and of something one of them had recently said to me. "Every country has its profile, its national image," the composer Aulis Sallinen said. "For us, it's all about music. It's extremely important to us."
And Finns have become important to music. Anyone who takes the most cursory interest in classical music today knows the names (even if they're practically unspellable) of Sallinen, Einojuhani Rautavaara, Joonas Kokkonen, Magnus Lindberg, Jouni Kaipainen and Kaija Saariaho. These are but a few stars from the expanding galaxy of contemporary Finnish music.
The work of living Finnish composers has been embraced in concert halls around the world, including the United States. One of the few contemporary works ever to be greeted warmly on the Metropolitan Opera stage was "The Red Line," Sallinen's powerful 1983 epic about Finnish farming life. Last November, New Yorkers heard the premiere of Saariaho's luminous choral symphony, "Oltra Mar," at Avery Fisher Hall, as part of the "Messages for the Millennium" program given by the New York Philharmonic. And this April, the Brooklyn Philharmonic, known for its championing of the music vanguard, will devote an entire program to symphonic works from Finland.
Like their fellow composers, Sallinen and Saariaho have been inspired and helped by the parallel flowerings of Finnish vocal, instrumental and conducting talent. In the 30 years since I first heard the wonderful bass Martti Talvela singing the role of King Mark in Wagner's "Tristan und Isolde" at Covent Garden, the stream of Finnish singers has hit flood tide. Opera houses across the world fight for sopranos like Karita Mattila and Soile Isokoski, the mezzo Monica Groop, the baritones Jorma Hynninen and Raimo Laukka, and Talvela's heirs, the basses Matti Salminen and Jaakko Ryhanen.
There is an equally impressive generation of Finnish instrumentalists -- from the pianist Olli Mustonen to the dazzling 23-year-old violinist Pekka Kuusisto (who gave a lively recital at Avery Fisher Hall in November). As for Finnish conductors, they are waving their batons across the globe: Osmo Vanska in Scotland; Jukka-Pekka Saraste in Toronto; the celebrated Esa-Pekka Salonen at the Los Angeles Philharmonic.
All in all, this is an array of musical talent that would do credit to any of the larger European countries -- or even to the United States. And this eruption of musical genius comes out of a Scandinavian country with a national population of only five million, roughly that of Missouri or Indiana. If there is a more disproportionate cultural phenomenon today, it is hard to think of it.
Various theories, some quite charming but dubious, have been proposed to explain the recent crescendo in Finnish musical output. One musician I talked to said skittishly that the country's wealth of vocal talent comes from the Finns' historical need to shout to each other across great spaces. Juhani Raiskinen, head of the Finnish National Opera, attributed Finnish musical prowess to three things: "forests and oxygen and lungs."
But some argue that the Finns' odd language has helped inflame their musical passions. Finnish has few major linguistic relatives; Hungarian comes closest, and even that is a stretch. Living in such verbal isolation, there has surely been an incentive to communicate in a language that needs no translation and knows no boundaries.
Others point, not entirely facetiously, to the weather. It's well below freezing for much of the year in Finland. The cold of winter is compounded by almost constant darkness, especially in northern Lapland. It's enough to bring out the brooding artist in anyone. Perhaps this explains why Finnish composers so easily identify with the dark tonalities that dominate the palette of 20th-century music.
Perhaps the most grounded explanation is that Finns, like the citizens of many small nations, have learned that the best way to make a splash on the global cultural scene is to specialize. Think of the art that poured out of half a dozen Italian cities in the quattrocento, or the playwrights England produced within a few decades during the Elizabethan era. Certainly in the economic sphere, Finland has discovered the benefits of carving a niche. In recent years, the land of pine and reindeer has become the prosperous land of Nokia. The telecommunications industry now drives the country's economy. Perhaps the same logic that has turned Finland into Europe's Silicon Valley is responsible for its efflorescence in classical music.
The roots of Finland's current musical culture can partly be traced to two key events in that country's history: the publication of the "Kalevala," in 1835, and the birth of Jean Sibelius, in 1865. The "Kalevala" is the Finnish Saga, a series of verse epics passed down orally for hundreds of years before Elias Lonnrot collected and printed them at last. It's hard to exaggerate what this belated transcription meant for the small Scandinavian country. Even if they can't recite its many thousands of lines, all Finns know the "Kalevala." It became at once a touchstone of patriotic pride -- the country's first indisputably great work of art -- as well as the bedrock of Finnish cultural identity.
The rhythm and prosody of the "Kalevala" are now thoroughly embedded in the language of Finland -- and in the country's music as well. An English speaker can have a rough idea what the hypnotic-trochaic meter of the "Kalevala" sounds like, since Longfellow borrowed it for his poem "Hiawatha." (It sounds better in Finnish.) The stories of the "Kalevala" have directly inspired practically every major Finnish composer: Sibelius, Rautavaara and Sallinen have all set parts of the epic to music. You don't need to understand the language of the "Kalevala" to find it beautiful when sung; it is an inherently musical text. Indeed, the soprano Soile Isokoski told me that Finnish is "a bright and beautiful language, like Italian," and thus an ideal accompaniment to music. Some analysts have even detected a national musical character linked to the very grammar of the language. Finnish has no articles or prepositions -- and this is obliquely echoed in classical music, which so often begins a phrase on an accent, without a first upbeat.
As for Sibelius, he was not only the first great Finnish musician but also the first Finn the rest of the world had ever heard of. He is at once their Dante and Shakespeare. Although his greatest works were composed in the early years of this century, Sibelius died in only 1957; his legacy therefore remains a palpable one. Some of the leading musical lights of Finland today, like the composer Einojuhani Rautavaara, met him in the flesh and were directly inspired by his work.
Sibelius fell in love with the "Kalevala" when he was a schoolboy. Over his lifetime, he would set the text to music over and over again. The performance of "Kullervo" I heard at the Helsinki Festival takes a striking section where a girl picks fruit -- On the plains I gathered strawberries/Underneath the mountain, raspberries" -- until she is seduced by her brother, who then impales himself on his sword. That work, composed in 1892, made Sibelius a national hero when he was still in his late 20's.
A few years later came the even more patriotic "Finlandia," which won him international fame. A fully orchestrated Finnish Declaration of Independence, the composition solidified the country's psychological link with classical music. In his later symphonies, Sibelius honed his musical voice: a kind of melancholic Impressionism in which subtle sonic landscapes take precedence over distinct melody.
Finnish music today is diverse; it has escaped Sibelius's shadow. Yet his textural style continues to influence many of Finland's top composers. Kaija Saariaho's shimmering choral symphony, "Oltra Mar," builds up tonal effects in an attempt to evoke the sound of a churning sea. In one passage, the chorus mimics a crashing wave with a sustained "shhh." Even in the most cerebral modernist compositions, an open-air quality that seems derived from Sibelius keeps breaking through. Rautavaara's "Cantus Arcticus," for example, is a "Concerto for Birds and Orchestra" that combines atonal orchestral music with Arctic bird song recorded by the composer himself.
In 1939, the Helsinki Music Institute was renamed the Sibelius Academy. It was the first step in the Finnish government's effort to capitalize on Sibelius's fame and cultivate fresh musical talent. Einojuhani Rautavaara was one notable beneficiary of this effort. He was personally selected by Sibelius to be sent to Juilliard after receiving training at the Sibelius Academy. Rautavaara was made an arts professor by the government in 1971. This wasn't a teaching job or a sinecure -- but rather a kind of laureateship that allowed him to concentrate exclusively on composing.
And that's just what Rautavaara, now 71, has been able to do. Many modern composers struggle to land just one major opera commission. Rautavaara has seven operas to his name -- including the 1997 chamber work "Aleksis Kivi," a psychological portrait of the 19th-century Finnish novelist. Although his music is more insistently atonal than that of Sibelius, Rautavaara has also drawn equal inspiration from Finland's past. His 1985 three-act opera "Thomas" documents the crusade led by Sweden and the Catholic Church to convert the Finns in the 13th century.
The career of the composer Jouni Kaipainen offers another case study in the pleasures of being a musician in Finland. Forming part of a line of "apostolic succession," as he puts it, Kaipainen began his studies at the Sibelius Academy under Aulis Sallinen. But he was a pupil rather than disciple, and has since carved a distinctive musical voice. His best-known work is "Carpe Diem," a propulsive clarinet concerto that fully exploits the sonic range of the woodwind instrument, squonks and squeals included.
Kaipainen has enjoyed generous state grants for 15 years. He is now composer in residence in Tampere, an industrial town 100 miles north of Helsinki with a rich musical life of its own. And he benefits also from the numerous commissions of the country's orchestras and festivals.
"Young American composers are astonished when I say I'm writing symphonies for the Helsinki Symphony Orchestra," Kaipainen says. Such orchestras are run in a way that frees them from dependence on ticket sales, but the Finns have in fact been gradually educated to understand and love music. Kaipainen wonders, rationally enough, how composers in other countries can learn their craft if they never get to hear their work played.
As Kaipainen sees it, much of Finland's musical flourishing has to do with the way the government has helped bring together composers, conductors, orchestras and record companies. Along with any number of smaller ensembles, and too many choirs to count, the country has almost 30 professional or semiprofessional orchestras. There are 45 annual music festivals, several of international repute, like the Savonlinna Opera Festival. The Finnish government subsidizes a record label, Ondine, that specializes in home-grown music. In addition to featuring contemporary works by the likes of Saariaho and Sallinen, Ondine offers Sibelius's Violin Concerto in both the classic 1954 recording by David Oistrakh and the prize-winning 1996 version by the prodigy Pekka Kuusisto.
Just as important, notes Kaipainen, are collaborations between composers and conductors. It is a symbiotic relationship of a kind that has scarcely been seen in Europe since the days when Toscanini was conducting Verdi and Puccini at La Scala, and Bruno Walter conducted Richard Strauss, Pfitzner and Korngold in Munich. The "Kullervo" performance at Johanneksen Kirrko was conducted by Paavo Berglund, the doyen of Finnish conductors, who has recorded two of Kokkonen's symphonies. Both Sakari Oramo and Osmo Vanska have recorded new works by Kaipainen; Oramo and Saraste have recorded works by the modernist Magnus Lindberg; and Esa-Pekka Salonen and the Los Angeles Philharmonic have recorded Saariaho's lovely colorist work, "Du Cristal."
The extent of collaboration in Finland might have something to do with the fact that so many of the country's leading musical figures were schoolmates. Musical education in Finland is of a quality and quantity unmatched anywhere in the world. It's romantic to think of the Finnish musical explosion as some inexplicable, God-given miracle. In reality, it is a product of something far less exalted: taxation.
Public money pays for dozens of lavish conservatories that are spread around the country. At one school in Oulu, a distant port on the Gulf of Bothnia, more than 1,300 pupils have access to a pipe organ, three Steinway grands, a modern recording studio and a concert hall.
The gifted violinist Pekka Kuuisisto, the Wunderkind who looks several years younger than 23, was trained at one of these academies, named Ita Helsinki. The pupils there come from all walks of life; musical skill is all that's required. As one student boasted, "It's possible for the child of an unemployed man to come here."
The school's Helsinki Junior Strings Orchestra is just one of many ways Finland nurtures its young musical talent. The school's pedagogical method, known as the color-strings approach, is based on the recognition of two things about small children: they need mnemonics -- four different colors and four different cartoons stand for each of the strings of a violin -- and they love games. The teachers therefore make playing the fiddle or cello a game, "serving the happiness of the child."
Ita Helsinki produces promising players. In one classroom, a coed group of 8-year-old cellists perform a routine rather like a basketball drill, with one member of the team shooting musical hoops as the others listen. Next door, a violinist named Geza Szilvay coaches 6-year-old girls. His first rule is, "It mustn't be a chore." He is gentleness itself as he instructs, "Relax your thumb for vibrato," before taking them back to a simple pizzicato on the G-string. The hope, of course, is that these girls will one day be part of the Helsinki Philharmonic. Or become a composer, the way Kaija Saariaho did.
Those girls and boys won't be playing a large part in the festivities for the year 2000, but most other Finnish musicians will, and there is a keen sense of expectation. Saariaho's new opera will have its premiere at next summer's Salzburg Festival, and Finland itself will throb with new music. Sallinen recently delivered the score of his latest opera, based on "King Lear," to the Finnish National Opera. The work will have its premiere in September. In the summer there will be "The Age of Dreams," an operatic triptych with a libretto by Paavo Rintala -- the three parts composed by Kalevi Aho, Olli Kortekangas and Herman Rechberger. This will have its debut at the Savonlinna Festival, which is held in a medieval lakeside castle, and is one of Finland's most attractive offerings for the musical pilgrim. Both Jorma Hynninen and Monica Groop will be creating roles for the production.
As in any other field, countries get what they pay for, they get what they want and they get what they deserve. Perhaps it shouldn't be surprising, then, that Finns have become so dominant in the classical music world. Where else besides Helsinki does a new symphony elicit a long segment on the television news -- and a new-music concert sell out as quickly as a rock concert? Rautavaara summed it up with wry satisfaction. "Music is extremely respected in Finland," he said. "Even the politicians respect music here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Where does the music come from? Finns give the question new meaning. From left: Pekka Kuusisto, 23, who has performed at Avery Fisher Hall; concertgoers at the Finnish National Opera in Helsinki; the composer Einojuhani Rautavaara, a protege of Finland's god of music, Jean Sibelius.; Dorm life at the Sibelius Academy, one of dozens of publicly-financed Finnish conservatories. From left: Riita Linna, a sixth-year voice student; duet for clarinet (Henna Jamsa) and violin (Mikk Murdvee); Liisa Viinanen, a third-year soprano, with her teacher Anssi Hirvonen, an opera singer. (Markus Jokela)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FINLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FINLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); OPERA (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); RELIGION (76%); 

PERSON: AULIS SALLINEN (73%); BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (64%); JEAN SIBELIUS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



200 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 01-09-00: Counter Culture;
The Simple Solution

BYLINE: By Andrew Sullivan

 BODY:
I suppose I first developed a fondness for the flat tax when both Jerry Brown and Steve Forbes supported it. It had that energizing right-left whiplash I've rarely been able to resist. But these days, not only the fringes of political life support it. This year, every Republican candidate but one -- Alan Keyes -- supports a version of flatness, and even the cautious George W. backs simpler, lower rates. One of Al Gore's core strengths against Bill Bradley is that he is less likely to raise taxes than his more liberal rival. Compared with 25 years ago, when pre-Reagan tax rates clobbered anyone even faintly successful, or even 16 years ago, when Walter Mondale quixotically campaigned for a fiscal hike, the tax climate may not be flat but it's surely flatter.
My fearless New Year's prediction is that the flat tax will be the central political reform of the next decade. And the reason we're headed for 180 degrees is at least partly cultural. There is almost no virtue more celebrated in America right now than simplicity. We are increasingly a one-click, one-rate, one-card, one-model culture. Once upon a time, companies might have broadcast their complexity to demonstrate their clout. Not so long ago, synergy was the buzzword. Now companies do all they can to project a simple image, a single product and a recognizable, simple brand. Amazon.com has one-click shopping; every consumer has a one-stop credit-debit card; most of Europe has one currency; and half the American continent has one tariff. If you want to think of the purest representation of this simple-is-beautiful trend, think of a Gap television ad: white background; simple images; no words; one brand. Or think of the E-Z Pass, the electronic card in your car windshield that instantly charges you as you enter a toll road or toll bridge. The most successful products -- from the iMac to AOL -- include as many features as possible in one standard model. Sooner rather than later, in a broad-band world, even the distinctions among telephone wires, cables and satellites will be erased. There will be one cultural-economic tube, and you'll be at the end of it -- eagerly clutching your single credit card that can make telephone calls, get cash out of A.T.M.'s and earn you frequent-flier miles. 
 In this general cultural drive toward simplicity, one thing stands out like a very sore thumb: the tax code. If taxpayers could pick a tax system for the new millennium, and if entrepreneurs could compete to provide one, the chances of the winning product looking like our current mess would be close to zero. Think of its current, salient features: multiple rates, thousands of possible deductions, a tax code of countless exceptions to endless rules fatter than the average Yellow Pages. There's a reason candidates get applause by vowing to abolish the I.R.S. and shrink our tax returns so they can fit on a postcard. It's not just that voters think they might pay less tax. (Keep dreaming.) It's that most people understand that paying taxes should surely be a little simpler in 2000 than the plot of a 19th-century Russian novel.
The standard objection to one-click tax payment is a political one, but even this is losing steam. It is the familiar liberal complaint that a simpler tax will inevitably favor the rich over the poor. In one sense, of course, this is a no-brainer. If you replace a tax system designed to ratchet up rates on the wealthy with a one-rate system, the rich pay less. But as the middle classes know, this is only part of the story. Complexity may be designed to penalize the prosperous, but it is also the rich man's friend. The current tax code is so byzantine that the wealthy are often the only ones who can afford the tax lawyers who can really foil it. More important, as the middle classes also know, the tax system is more than its rates. It's also the product of the myriad tax breaks, shelters and subsidies that the middle and upper classes demand in return for their higher tax rates. A result is a nominally progressive system with so many loopholes that it looks a lot less fair in close-up than it does from a distance.
Besides, the point of a tax system should not be to create a perfect society. There are plenty of ways to do that by spending the money you raise. The point of a good tax system is to raise as much revenue as simply and as efficiently as possible. No system does that as well as the flat tax. The best version would be both conservative and liberal. Start on the left by eliminating every tax deduction in the current code and scouring the federal budget for every juicy piece of corporate welfare you can find. Then shift right and remove the current multiple tax rates with one simple percentage tax, and tax income, capital gains and inherited wealth at this same, simple rate. Tack left again and start taxing at a high-enough income level to keep most of the working poor from paying any federal income tax at all; and where necessary, supplement income by keeping the Earned Income Tax Credit as a simple cash handout. By the time you're done, the I.R.S. is history, taxes are as easy as e-mail and the government looks as if it might conceivably belong in the 21st century.
Who's opposed? The naysayers are either corporate interests, tax lawyers or liberals who react to every attempt to change the system with a chorus that it's a giveaway to the rich. But this is as knee-jerk as the liberal response to welfare reform, which saw it as mere punishment of the poor. In fact, if only liberals could get their minds wrapped around it, a one-rate, loophole-free tax system could actually help rescue liberalism from its doldrums. In one swoop, a flat tax would remove one of the major reasons for the unpopularity of government: its complexity, bureaucracy and debts to special interests. By treating every taxpayer alike, a flat tax would help foster a deeper sense that no one has more of a claim on the government than anyone else, and help focus us on real social problems rather than on who gets what in the crapshoot of tax law. As a bonus, by ending the tax breaks special interest groups thrive on, you also remove much of the incentive for corporate soft-money campaign donations, getting through a flat tax what campaign finance reform will likely never accomplish. A flat tax in the context of more general tax reform could be the best thing to happen to faith in government since Nixon left office.
Politically impossible? That's what they said about welfare reform and deficit reduction. In fact, all the omens are good. Tax reform is always easier in good times; flat-taxers are almost a majority now in the Republican Party; and the candidates with the most mojo this winter are those most hostile to the special-interest groups who love the current system. I give it 10 years at the most. And we won't even have to elect Steve Forbes or Jerry Brown to get there.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Luba Lukova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); MILLENNIUM (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); BRAND EQUITY (64%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (63%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000

 
