

801 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Weicker Honeymoon Over as Governor's Race Heats Up

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Aug. 26

 BODY:
Former United States Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr., an independent running for governor, has enjoyed nothing less than a political honeymoon for the last six months. He has held wide leads in all public opinion polls. His campaign has been gentlemanly and issue-oriented. He also has been successful at raising funds, frequently attracting the news media and collecting endorsements from Democrats and Republicans.
Last week, however, Mr. Weicker's candidacy became engaged in a volatile volley of charges and countercharges with the Democratic Party's endorsed candidate, United States Representative Bruce A. Morrison of Hamden, over Mr. Weicker's personal finances.
The exchanges, which included unusually strong language from both candidates, also appeared to start what will likely become a fiercely fought three-way contest that could easily escalate into the kind of tit-for-tat negative campaigning that helped unseat Mr. Weicker in 1988. 
''It was Hell Week for Lowell Weicker,'' said Jack R. Goldberg, the press secretary for the Republican Party's nominee for governor, United States Representative John G. Rowland of Waterbury. ''He wants to stay lofty and above the battle, but if he wants to be governor he's going to have to fight for it.''
 
Fund-Raising Role Disputed
Mr. Weicker, a Greenwich resident who has remained a registered Republican and is running under the Connecticut Party banner, came under attack by Mr. Morrison for failing to make public his 1989 Federal and state tax returns. Mr. Rowland, Mr. Morrison and the Democrat challenging Mr. Morrison in the party's Sept. 11 primary, State Representative William J. Cibes Jr. of New London, have released their returns. Mr. Morrison said Mr. Weicker's refusal was inconsistent with his past practice of disclosing his taxes. He also intimated that Mr. Weicker's holdings of oil and pharmaceutical company stocks could be a conflict of interest.
Moreover, he suggested that the fund-raising company for medical and scientific research, based in Alexandria, Va., that employed Mr. Weicker as chief executive in 1989 was a ''sham'' created solely to provide Mr. Weicker with employment following the end of his 18-year Senate career.
Mr. Morrison also noted that some public service advertisements featuring Mr. Weicker and the medical organization, Research! America, had been seen in Fairfield County on New York television stations and on some cable channels elsewhere in Connecticut. The broadcasts, he said, raise questions about requirements for equal time.
''The people of Connecticut need a governor they can trust,'' Mr. Morrison said in a news conference at the State Capitol on Thursday.
Earlier that day, Mr. Weicker, under persistent questioning from reporters, Mr. Morrison and the Republican candidate for lieutenant governor, State Representative Robert G. Jaekle of Stratford, released part of his 1989 tax records, stating that he earned $521,172 and paid $86,616 in Federal taxes.
Mr. Weicker did not supply any tax forms supplementing form 1040, including Schedule A, which would detail his $137,482 in deductions, or Schedule B, which would state the origin of the $58,561 he said he earned in taxable interest and $22,467 in dividends.
Instead, Mr. Weicker, whose grandfather, E. R. Squibb, helped found the pharmaceutical company now called the Squibb Corporation, said that he earned $173,000 from Research!America and about $100,000 from a teaching post at George Washington University in Washington, lecture fees, royalties and other part-time positions.
 
Sensitive Family Information
He said the rest of his income, and that of his wife, Claudia, came from pensions, annuities, dividends, interest and capital gains on more than 30 securities. He also received payments as a beneficiary of two trust funds.
He said he held less than 250 shares of stock in a few pharmaceutical companies. He also said he owned no oil company stocks, although he received a $348 oil company dividend from his mother's trust fund.
Mr. Weicker said he was declining to release other tax forms because they would reveal sensitive family information, like how much alimony he pays to his two former wives. He said he released such information in the past because he was a public official and had chosen to disclose more than he had to.
As for Research! America, Mr. Weicker said Mr. Morrison was ''throwing slime.'' He described the group as a nonprofit alliance that raises money for grass-roots public awareness programs about the benefits of medical research. He listed its directors, including former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop, and 130 supporting foundations, hospitals, universities and pharmaceutical concerns.
Mr. Weicker said the alliance raised almost $1.1 million in 1989 and spent slightly more than half that amount on salaries and other administrative costs. He also said that he was on an unpaid leave and that any broadcasting in Connecticut since he became a candidate was not deliberate.
To further blunt Mr. Morrison's criticisms, Mr. Weicker released documents showing that Mr. Morrison in 1989 bought and sold millions of dollars worth of stocks in oil and pharmaceutical concerns.
Mr. Weicker, speaking near the end of a 90-minute news conference that included the playing of several Research! America commercials, also criticized the news media for publicizing, and thus, he said, giving credence to, Mr. Morrison's accusations.
Mr. Weicker's press secretary, Avice A. Meehan, said Mr. Morrison's charges were ''desperate.'' Mr. Morrison has been trailing both Mr. Weicker and Mr. Rowland in all public opinion polls conducted since March, when Mr. Weicker unexpectedly entered the race and Gov. William A. O'Neill, a Democrat, unexpectedly announced he would not seek a third full term.
 
Weicker Leads in Latest Poll
Earlier this month, in the most recent poll taken by the University of Connecticut's Institute for Social Inquiry and published in The Hartford Courant, Mr. Weicker led by 37 percent of those polled, with Mr. Rowland receiving 20 percent and Mr. Morrison receiving 13 percent. The poll of 500 randomly selected state residents, which was taken between July 23 and 30, had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points.
''He has not even broken 20 percent in a public poll,'' Ms. Meehan said of Mr. Morrison. ''He is a man really struggling along, and he has yet to find a public message. He is floundering, so he has flailed out.''
 
Rowland Silent and Pleased
Mr. Morrison said his comments did not amount to negative campaigning. ''I asked a lot of questions about Research! America, and I don't think there is anything wrong with him answering those questions,'' he said.
When asked by reporters if he had ''slimed'' Mr. Weicker, Mr. Morrison laughed and looked at his hands to show that they were clean. He also said the stocks in Mr. Morrison's transactions mentioned by Mr. Weicker were all owned by his former wife, Jane.
Mr. Rowland had little involvement in the week's debate, although he was apparently pleased by the attention Mr. Morrison's charges had attracted, and said he did not consider them to be negative campaigning.
Both Democrats and Republicans have made Mr. Weicker the target of most attacks so far, in particular charging that he was being evasive in stating how he would deal with the state's growing economic crisis. Both parties likened the burly former Senator to a ''dancing bear'' for his refusal to say under what circumstances, if any, he would seek a state income tax.
The attacks are meant to recall Mr. Weicker's failed 1988 campaign for a fourth term in office, when he was repeatedly ridiculed as a sleeping bear in several television commercials broadcast by the Democratic candidate, Joseph I. Lieberman of New Haven. Mr. Lieberman won the election by less than 1 percent of the vote.
Ms. Meehan said the current Weicker campaign was not daunted by the specter of a replay of 1988's negative attacks. ''The efficacy of the negative campaign has been overblown,'' she said. ''People who feel desperate enough to fall into that tactic use it like a bogyman to scare children.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about financial disclosures by Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the independent candidate for governor in Connecticut, misidentified his grandfather. The grandfather was not E. R. Squibb but Theodore Weicker, one of three partners who founded the Squibb Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lowell P. Weicker Jr., an independent candidate for governor of Connecticut, answering questions about his finances. His Democratic opponent, Representative Bruce A. Morrison, has accused him of wrongdoing. (Steve Miller for The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FINANCES, PERSONAL; ELECTION ISSUES ; ETHICS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (77%); ETHICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR; MORRISON, BRUCE A (REPR) ; ROWLAND, JOHN G (REPR); MORTON, BRUCE A (REPR) LOWELL PALMER WEICKER JR (92%); 



802 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: A Market Slumps and Real-Estate Lawyers Scramble

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
When houses and apartments were selling in days or weeks during the mid-1980's, real-estate closings were the bread and butter of many law practices in the New York metropolitan region. Some lawyers conducted hundreds of closings a year, collecting from $750 to $1,000 for each one.
But since the real-estate market was laid low and houses began to remain unsold for a year or more, that steady source of income has dried up, and many of those lawyers have had to reorganize the way they practice law.
Lawyers have abandoned the freedom of practicing alone for the security of firms that deal with more than just real estate, branching out into new legal fields. At the same time some firms that handle real-estate matters are laying off lawyers and paralegals. 
In many firms, lawyers have replaced closings with foreclosures, more often than not properties that were the focus of mid-1980's real-estate deals that have soured.
 
More Golfing Now
Like real-estate agents, architects and title-insurance companies that thrived through the region's real-estate boom, lawyers have had to find ways to cope with the bust.
''I don't know of anyone who has gotten out of the business completely, but they certainly are looking at other ways of making a living,'' said Allan D. Grecco, a lawyer in Rocky Point, L.I., who is co-chairman of the Suffolk County Bar Association's real property committee. ''Me? My golf game is improving.''
House buyers and sellers are not required to have lawyers, but most want legal representation as soon as they enter a deal. The closing is the final part of a sale, in which the lawyers supervise the signing of legal documents and calculate adjustments for items like heating oil, property taxes and repairs outlined in contracts.
Statistics on the decline in house sales suggest how lawyers have been hurt, since every sale usually involves three lawyers, representing the buyer, seller and lender. According to the National Association of Realtors, since the peak of the market in 1987, sales of existing houses and condominiums have declined 11 percent in Connecticut, 20 percent in New York and 25 percent in New Jersey.
 
'It's a Terrible Market'
In New Jersey, that drop means there will be 40,000 fewer closings this year than in 1987.
''It's a terrible market,'' said Paul E. Roberts, a partner in the New York office of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, a large national law firm. ''Most development lawyers are not too busy.''
Without closings or new real-estate projects, lawyers have had to take hard looks at their practices. Until this year, for example, Mr. Grecco had his own practice, related primarily to real estate. He represented builders, speculators and homeowners.
But as the number of projects dropped and closings disappeared, he needed new avenues of support. So Mr. Grecco and four other lawyers who also had been working on their own joined to form a new five-person firm. About 10 percent of the firm's practice now is real estate, but a more difficult and contentious form of real estate.
''What used to be a real-estate practice of contracts and closings,'' Mr. Grecco said, ''now is one of litigation, negotiations and aggravation.''
 
More Complex Deals
Many lawyers say that not only are closings fewer, but also that the deals that are being completed tend to be far more complex.
Most complications arise from the advantages of buyers over sellers in the current market. Buyers can and do demand many special provisions, such as making the purchase contingent on the sale of their own house. They also tend to be tougher when the results come in from home inspections, demanding extra work or deep price reductions. And much of the negotiating now falls to the lawyers.
''Each deal is harder and harder to put together,'' said Ed Wacks, a lawyer in Morris Plains who is head of the New Jersey Bar Association's Real Property, Probate and Trust law section.
Mr. Wacks said that until 1988, real estate had accounted for 45 percent of the practice in his firm, Wacks Mullen Kartzman & Craig. That has dropped by half in the last few years, replaced increasingly by foreclosure proceedings. He said he also has picked up much more work in the probate field: wills and estates.
''Each time there's a downturn in the economy people think the worst,'' Mr. Wacks said. ''And when they think of the worst they think of death.''
 
Drastic Drop in Income
Mr. Wacks said that some big firms have been laying off associates, especially those who had been hired for the real-estate practice. Other small firms unable to shift to new types of litigation have watched their income drop drastically.
In some practices, it has taken an infusion of new blood to keep things going. Ronald King, a veteran real-estate lawyer in Stamford, Conn., who during the peak was doing more than 400 closings a year, saw his practice cut in half in the last few years.
''You come almost to depend upon the practice growing every year,'' Mr. King said. ''It came as a shock to me when it stopped.''
Like other lawyers who had built practices almost entirely on real-estate transactions, Mr. King, 64, sought new ways to expand his practice. But it was not easy. ''It's been hard for an old horse to learn new tricks,'' he said.
Things started to turn around for him last December when he was joined by his 30-year-old son, Peter. The younger Mr. King had just passed the Connecticut bar and had an interest in probate and copyright law, which helped bring in new clients.
''Usually we were so busy with real-estate work that we virtually threw other business out the door,'' the older Mr. King said. ''Now we're being a little more careful about replacing our income.''
The legal profession, recognizing that some of its members are in danger of being stuck high and dry by the receding market, is ready to throw out a life preserver. The Stamford Regional Bar Association plans to hold seminars in the fall to help lawyers who had concentrated on real estate refresh their skills in other areas like probate and corporate law.
''As the regional economy has shifted, many people who had emphasized real estate as an important part of their practice find it necessary also to shift,'' said Michael J. Cacace, a partner in the firm of D'Andrea & Cacace, and president of the Stamford Regional Bar Association. ''The legal community, as with any business, is adapting to the economy.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The slow real-estate market has hurt lawyers who once specialized in closings. ''Me? My golf game is improving,'' said Allan D. Grecco of Long Island. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times); ''Each deal is harder and harder to put together,'' said Ed Wacks, a lawyer in New Jersey. ''Each time there's a downturn in the economy people think the worst.'' (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times); ''You come almost to depend upon the practice growing every year,'' said Ronald King, left, a lawyer in Connecticut. ''It came as a shock to me when it stopped.'' His son, Peter, works with him in Stamford. (Stephen Castagneto for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN LEWIS & BOCKIUS LLP (84%); NEW YORK (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; LEGAL PROFESSION; FINANCES REAL ESTATE (92%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); PARALEGALS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); GOLF (72%); INSURANCE (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); TITLE INSURANCE (69%); EXISTING HOME SALES (66%); HEATING OIL (62%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY ED WACKS (75%); ALLAN D GRECCO (72%); 



803 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Jesse Fried Wed To Naomi Super

 BODY:
Naomi Anne Super, a doctoral candidate in materials science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Jesse Mackenzie Fried, a Harvard University law student, were married yesterday at Congregation Shaarei Tefilla in Las Vegas, Nev. Rabbi Abner Weiss officiated. 
Mrs. Fried, 23 years old, is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jack Super of Las Vegas. She is a summa cum laude graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Her father is a real-estate developer and her mother, Marlene Super, is a school librarian.
Mr. Fried, 27, is a son of Lena Fried of Woburn, Mass., and Zoltan Fried of Lexington, Mass. He graduated from Harvard, where he also received a master's degree in economics. His mother is a systems analyst for the Mitre Corporation in Bedford, Mass. His father is a professor of physics at the University of Lowell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MITRE CORP (69%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); REAL ESTATE (84%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (72%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JESSE; SUPER, NAOMI ANNE (NAOMI FRIED) JESSE MACKENZIE FRIED (94%); NAOMI SUPER (55%); NAOMI ANNE SUPER (55%); 



804 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: ON YOUR OWN;
Take a Hike, on Cross-Country Trails

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD

 BODY:
A SCOUTING party has taken to the woods and backroads to mark a trail that will offer, if you are fit and eager, the opportunity to take an eight-month nature walk across the United States. But the purpose for staking out the new path has to do as much with image as reality.
''It's important for people to know that they can hike the entire trail if they want to,'' said John Viehman, executive editor of Backpacker magazine. ''But it's more the dream we're creating here. 
''This is a time when people are starting to look out their living room window and question how they fit into the grand scheme of the world. For all those with a short amount of time, backpacking is the key. But there has to be a hard core of trails, or they will make other choices.''
Backpacker, a national outdoors magazine published by Rodale Press of Emmaus, Pa., has joined with the American Hiking Society of Washington to organize the scouting trek. Their goal is to lay out a 5,500-mile American Discovery Trail, which will stretch from ocean to ocean: from the Point Reyes National Seashore near San Francisco to the Prime Hook National Wildlife Refuge on the coast of Delaware. The route across America's heartland will be created from existing trails and logging roads rather than new terrain.
 
Water Supply Is Scarce
The plan is grand, but the day-to-day job of dogging it out on the trail has had its ups and downs. The drought in the West has curtailed progress, making the scouting party's daily search for water tantamount to counting cracks in a riverbed. And occasionally, marked trails don't exist, or at least are thick with weed and brush.
A three-person team led by Eric Seaborg, a former president of the hiking society, set out June 2. The group is using a four-door Chevrolet Blazer truck and 15-foot trailer as its roving headquarters. While concentrating on a network of footpaths for hiking, the team also carries mountain bikes. At times, it has joined local equestrians for trips on horseback through established trails.
Organizers see the pathway as a way of hiking, bicycling and horseback riding through a vast network joining more than 30,000 miles of existing trails. It is designed to link the nation's three major trails running north and south: the Appalachian Trail in the East; the Continental Divide Trail through the Rocky Mountains, and the Pacific Crest Trail in the West.
The inspiration for a coast-to-coast trail came from Hike-a-Nation, an effort by the American Hiking Society nearly a decade ago to publicize the need for such a trail. Sponsors like Chevrolet Truck Sales and the Coleman Company, a Kansas manufacturer of camping equipment, are subsidizing the current project. A trail map and guide book published by Rodale is scheduled for release in 1992.
 
Shorter, Less Expensive Trips
The time is right for developing a trail, said Chuck Sloan, president of the hiking society. ''We have found that in every economic downturn, the number of people hiking increases,'' Sloan said. ''It's a way for people to get out and do something; to take shorter trips that are less expensive.'' The American Hiking Society, formed in 1977 as an outdoors advocacy group, has about 250,000 members.
So far, the trip has had all sorts of surprises. Heather Douglass, assistant trails coordinator, joined the scouting team for two weeks when it was heading northeast of Foresthill, Calif., near Lake Tahoe. In a clearing along the trail, the scouting team came across Michigan Bluff.
''It was a street in the middle of the woods,'' said Douglass. ''There was an old house in the middle of town that had been letting people camp in their backyard for years without charging. Here these people sit, and the world comes to them. The town was our best discovery, a neat, funny place.''
Seaborg and his team are sometimes out of contact for days. An unusually prolonged stretch of nine days caused some concern among organizers last week. Seaborg finally surfaced last Friday, and reported that his group had been more than 80 miles from the nearest telephone. They had trekked from the Big Smokey Valley near the Toouima Range in central Nevada to the Duckwater Indian Reservation southwest of Ely.
 
Rain and Snow
In an 11-hour hike Thursday, they passed over three ridges in the Hot Creek Range, from the desert floor to an altitude of 9,500 feet. They had been soaked earlier in the week in a two-day rain spell, unusual for that area. In the mountains, they had a dusting of snow.
A local forest ranger gave them directions for a trail that still was being forged across the ridge. ''He told us to go up a trail that was just roughed out last week,'' said Seaborg, ''but that ran out. From there, we bushwacked through the brush and got onto a jeep trail.''
Despite the hardships, Seaborg's spirits were running high. ''It's a physical challenge, but it's real pretty out here,'' he said by telephone from Duckwater. ''It's neat to be on the desert. And it was fun to be away from phones.''
For recorded information on the progress of the scouting trip, which is expected to end next February, telephone the American Discovery Trail Scouting Expedition line at (703) 754-9008.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric Seaborg, left, and Ellen Dudley hiking through Six Mile Canyon near Virginia City, Nev., as they scouted the American Discovery Trail. (David Parker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (60%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: COLEMAN CO INC (60%); RODALE INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: HIKING HIKING (90%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (84%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); WILDLIFE (73%); BEACHES (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%); DROUGHT (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%); CYCLING (60%); HORSES (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (51%); 

PERSON: LLOYD, BARBARA MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



805 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 13, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Theater in Britain Is No Longer a Bargain

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH; Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Even when the plays have been less than perfect here, the price of a ticket has always been exactly right for American visitors. Not this year.
Inflation and a weak dollar have sent West End box-office scales soaring. An orchestra seat to a musical in London now approaches $50, and the additional cost of $2 to $3 for a program brings the real price close to the $55 top for some Broadway musicals.
Good seats for plays cost only $15 less than musicals, and sometimes the price is higher if there's a star name on the marquee. Things have gotten so humiliating for some bargain-seeking American culture-vultures abroad that the McDonald's in Stratford-on-Avon, the last refuge for Shakespeare enthusiasts on a tight budget, now levies a 12-cent surcharge for ketchup. 
In the West End, the rise in prices has not been matched by a commensurate increase in theatrical quality. The season has been notorious for expensive bombs, Broadway-style, including two very short-lived musical extravaganzas devoted to spiritual figures, ''King'' (as in Martin Luther) and ''Bernadette'' (as in Lourdes). Local critics still write about these fiascoes, uncommonly large in economic scale for London, with a bewilderment suggesting that they were in some way mystical experiences after all. The two most acclaimed dramas of the London season, David Hare's ''Racing Demon'' and Peter Flannery's ''Singer,'' have both avoided the financial pressures of the West End entirely: Rather than transfer into commercial theaters, these two plays have simply moved from the small houses at the National Theater and the Royal Shakespeare Company to larger auditoriums at the same repertory institutions. This leaves the West End with no dramatic offerings remotely comparable to, say, ''The Piano Lesson,'' ''The Grapes of Wrath'' or ''Prelude to a Kiss'' on Broadway. With occasional exceptions, what the West End presents instead is tourist fare, much of it far less fresh than the equivalent products across the ocean. While ''Me and My Girl'' and ''Starlight Express'' have long since come and gone in New York, they continue unabated here, with their umpteenth casts. In England, the sun apparently never sets on any Andrew Lloyd Webber musical, Agatha Christie thriller or sex farce by Ray Cooney, beloved author of ''Run for Your Wife!'' (now in its seventh year).
Revivals are also far more plentiful here than in New York. They range from the limited engagements of stars in modern classics - Richard Harris in Pirandello's ''Henry IV,'' Derek Jacobi in Sartre's ''Kean'' - to less-than-stellar retreads of 1980's hits that were not so wonderful the first time around, such as ''Blood Brothers'' and ''Stepping Out.'' Perhaps reflecting the ambiguous position of Brecht in a world pondering a united Germany, a ''Mother Courage'' starring Glenda Jackson advertises itself with a critic's quote promising a ''dazzling un-Brechtian production.'' In a category by itself is a staging of Noel Coward's ''Private Lives,'' scheduled for mid-September, in which Keith Baxter will co-star with Joan Collins. As Miss Collins owes her latter-day celebrity to American television, so American pop culture dominates much of the West End. Even the long-running ''Les Liaisons Dangereuses'' is featuring an American television star, Daniel J. Travanti of ''Hill Street Blues.'' By far the most talked-about actor in a London theater right now is another American interpreter of Valmont, John Malkovich, who is re-creating his Broadway role of Pale in Lanford Wilson's ''Burn This'' on Shaftesbury Avenue. Along with ''Private Lives,'' the most awaited West End opening of the fall is an English production of the Stephen Sondheim-James Lapine ''Into the Woods,'' directed by Richard Jones and starring Julia McKenzie.
Golden oldies of American rock-and-roll are at the core of three recent West End musicals (''Return to the Forbidden Planet,'' ''Buddy'' and ''Stop in the Name of Love''). The most warmly received new revival in London is ''Show Boat,'' with the highest praise reserved for its American stars, Bruce Hubbard and Karla Burns. When one looks beyond the West End to London's subsidized companies, where no fewer than three Arthur Miller plays are running, it's hard to imagine how anyone can accuse the English of colonizing the American theater. If anything, the reverse may be true: London cannot get enough of the rude vitality of Steppenwolf, ''Can't Help Lovin' Dat Man,'' ''Peggy Sue'' and even ''The Crucible.'' Certainly in contrast to the American competition, the two top-rung English playwrights who have ventured into the West End this season, Alan Ayckbourn and Simon Gray, seem to speak in subdued voices.
This is especially true of Mr. Gray, whose ''Hidden Laughter,'' at the Vaudeville Theater, tries to explore a bankrupt marriage in quiet terms that can be regarded either as Chekhovian or genteel to a fault.
As one expects from the author of ''Butley'' and ''Otherwise Engaged,'' Mr. Gray places his focus on a London literary couple, a budding novelist (Felicity Kendal) and an agent (Kevin McNally). In the manner of ''The Common Pursuit,'' the play jumps several years with each scene, gradually filling in the decadelong chronology of a family's wasteful decline as played out by representatives of three generations in a weekend getaway cottage in Devon. The play's title is from T. S. Eliot, and its central, neo-''Cherry Orchard'' image is a center-stage tree stump. Its dramatic events often concern what one character defensively describes as ''the usual middle-class stuff'' - petty infidelities and alienated teen-age children. ''Hidden Laughter'' is the kind of schematically constructed play in which characters constantly reassure one another that ''everything will be all right'' right up to the moment when someone histrionically asks, ''So why is everything going wrong?'' That question is never answered, so Miss Kendal, under the author's awkward direction, tries to raise the emotional stakes by delivering almost every speech as if she were laughing through her tears. Eventually this novelist's cries prove more wolf than Woolf.
No wonder the show is taken over by Peter Barkworth, who, like Michael Bryant in the new Hare play, is giving one of London's two standout performances in the seemingly ubiquitous role of a wry, silver-haired Church of England minister with agnostic and homosexual tendencies. Mr. Barkworth's vicar, somewhat reminiscent of the title character in Mr. Gray's ''Quartermaine's Terms,'' dispenses wisdom and compassion to all the selfish strivers around him only to be forgotten by his supposed friends when he is in desperate straits of his own. In the play's funniest if most irrelevant scene he finds himself in a full-fledged brawl with an egomaniacal young novelist; it's as if the Archbishop of Canterbury were rolling in the dirt with Martin Amis. Mr. Ayckbourn's new West End production, ''Man of the Moment,'' is also written in a low key - or as much so as a play with a frequently used on-stage swimming pool can be. Yet the writer's gentle tone of voice does not belie his bitterness. As this comedy's nasty premise has it, a fatuous television documentary program titled ''Their Paths Crossed'' is staging a reunion between a nebbishy former bank clerk named Douglas Beechey (played by Michael Gambon) and the onetime armed robber (Peter Bowles) whose crime he foiled 17 years earlier. Though a national hero for a few weeks after his noble gesture, Beechey is now an anonymous suburbanite, a double-glazing salesman in a sexless marriage to the reclusive woman whose face was disfigured by the robber's gunshot. The criminal, meanwhile, has become the real media star over the long haul: After exploiting his nine-year jail term in best-selling memoirs, he was rewarded with a hit television talk show that has bought him the servant-crammed Spanish villa where Mr. Ayckbourn's play is set. If the cynical irony of ''Man of the Moment'' sounds a bit cheap - and sometimes is - it is mitigated by the author's unexpected characterization of Beechey. While a nerd and a bore, the good Samaritan is also a genuinely good soul who, to the astonishment of his slick television packagers, harbors no resentment of the vulgar, pontificating bully whose criminality has proved so extravagantly profitable. Indeed, the genial, contented Beechey is grateful for the free trip to sunny Spain, dazzled by his first exposure to show business and eager to regard his long-ago antagonist as a reformed citizen, a first class pundit and a generous host.
The part of Beechey was a tour de force for Mr. Gambon, the frequent Ayckbourn collaborator who concluded his run in ''Man of the Moment'' at the Globe Theater in mid-August. Shuffling on at first as a timid, faceless nonentity, compulsively smiling and mouthing platitudes, the star more resembled the Alec Guinness of 1950's Ealing comedies and the Peter Sellers of ''Being There'' than the aggressive, rough-edged actor still best known to Americans for ''The Singing Detective.'' But for all his priceless farcical bits of meekness, including a hilarious Art Carney-ish attempt to appear nonchalant in front of a television camera, Mr. Gambon never let the audience laugh condescendingly at his character: When Beechey twitches for a split-second with regret while recounting his unfulfilled desire for children or when he must rise above 17 years of lethargy to stand up for right one more time, the actor's performance became more touching than clownish and, finally, more heroic than pathetic.
If ''Man of the Moment,'' like some other recent Ayckbourn plays such as ''Woman in Mind'' and ''Henceforward . . .,'' is circumscribed by the gimmick of its premise, it shares the preoccupation with good and evil that has distinguished this amazingly prolific playwright's most expansive efforts of the decade, ''A Small Family Business'' and ''The Revengers' Comedies.'' As always, the evening is flecked with its creator's dramatic daring as both author and director. Among his characters is a grotesquely overweight nanny who proves both comic (in a scuba-diving outfit) and tragic (in unrequited love), and among the theatrical experiments is an outlandish if unsatisfying Pirandellian denouement that casts the audience in the theater in the part of an easily cowed television audience. Until the finale, ''Man of the Moment'' is one of the precious few productions in the West End where the audience is not asked to sink to that lowly role.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Felicity Kendal, above, stars in Simon Gray's new play ''Hidden Laughter.'' Michael Gambon, right, stars in ''Man of the Moment,'' by Alan Ayckbourn. (Alastair Muir)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); 

COMPANY: SHAKESPEARE CO UNITED KINGDOM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: THEATER MUSICAL THEATER (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); MUSIC (72%); BRITISH MONARCHS (71%); WRITERS (65%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (63%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK FRANK RICH (54%); 



806 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

 
The Oil Jolt
 
U.S. officials said economic sanctions against Iraq, while starting to have some effect, will probably not have a decisive impact for months. [Page A1.] Oil prices have jumped because of what may turn out to be a modest interruption in supplies. The forces of supply and demand are slow to respond to changes in oil prices, and neither producers nor consumers are likely to make changes that would restore an equilibrium. Economic Analysis. [A1.] 
 
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries gathered to confront some of the most crucial issues in the group's 30-year history. Many expect a rise in production. [D1.]
 
Persian Gulf banking systems and economies have been dealt severe blows by huge withdrawals of deposits and the cutting of vital Western and Japanese credit lines. [D1.]
 
International
 
Shock waves from the Persian Gulf are rippling through Brazil's economy, swelling an oil-import bill, threatening an anti-inflation program and freezing trade with Iraq. [D10.]
 
The Economy
 
Czechoslovakia's Finance Minister was the hit of the Federal Reserve's annual summer retreat, dedicated this year to a discussion of central banking in Eastern Europe. Vaclav Klaus gave a rousing speech in which he endorsed free-market principles. [D1.]
 
New orders for American-made machine tools fell 11.9 percent in July, a monthly report shows. Economists said the figures reflected the slowdown in the nation's economy that began before the Middle East oil crisis. [D1.]
 
Consumers in the New York region are cutting spending and delaying purchases, according to a survey of the International Council of Shopping Centers. [A1.]
 
By approving a loan package for Trump's casino empire, New Jersey's Casino Control Commission tacitly acknowledged that it failed to shield casinos from high-rolling borrowing practices. [A1.]
 
Companies
 
Chrysler's latest advertising campaign takes aim at the company's Japanese competitors, but the company, which is buying Japanese metal-stamping presses, is being accused of hypocrisy by machine tool manufacturers. [D1.]
 
The Trump Shuttle decided to expand its charter flights to the Caribbean and Mexico and its service to Atlantic City. [D5.]
 
The Media Business
 
Trust between publishers and writers has given way to contract disputes. One publisher says the large amount of money and risk has disrupted old relationships. [D1.]
 
The National Mortgage News has gained respect for its coverage of the savings and loan crisis. [D8.]
 
Advertising has begun to back off from the promise of instant gratification and to offer a more patient message. Randall Rothenberg: Ad Scene. [D8.]
 
The lure of the beach lingers long past the summer, especially for magazine readers. Volleyball and Beach Culture are two new publications. [D8.]
 
J. C. Penney's ads portray a style-conscious retailer, something like a Saks for the masses. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D9.]
 
Today's Columns
 
A shopping district has arisen in Mexico City near the ancient center, offering a huge variety of goods at sidewalk stalls in an informal economy. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
 
The bond market expects long-term interest rates to rise this week since traders believe the volatile situation in the Persian Gulf might worsen. Credit Markets. [D5.]
 
The invasion of Kuwait has forced Wall Street merger experts to rework assumptions about a number of deals, like those for United and Northwest airlines. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); GULF STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDIA EDGE (52%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

SUBJECT: No Index Terms ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CARTELS (77%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); RETAILERS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BEACHES (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); METAL STAMPING (71%); CASINOS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: VACLAV KLAUS (51%); 



807 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Key Talks On Output For OPEC

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VIENNA, Aug. 26

 BODY:
As members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries gathered informally here today to confront some of the most crucial issues in the group's 30-year history, some predicted that a formal meeting would be announced on Monday to address questions of oil production and prices.
But regardless of the forum, a majority of OPEC members expect at least three member nations to carry out their plan to raise oil production to help meet the supply shortfall caused by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2.
There is a growing sentiment here that the member nations would be better off to permit production increases within an OPEC framework instead of allowing a free-for-all that might be difficult to control once the Persian Gulf crisis is over. Once the conflict comes to an end, this logic holds, OPEC can retake control and regulate production under its quota system. 
While there are serious differences among members on how to respond to the turmoil in the world petroleum markets, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela are pressing to increase their production substantially when the meeting ends.
 
Long-Dormant Animosities
The Iraqi-Kuwaiti conflict has rekindled long-dormant animosities within OPEC that reflect the political schisms separating poor and rich countries and pro-Western and anti-Western nations.
OPEC officials from Algeria, Libya, Iran, Nigeria and Iraq, for example, argue that it is not OPEC's mission to save the West from an economic crisis caused by rapidly rising oil prices. They say the West has done little for indebted third world nations in the last decade and argue that there is enough oil in world markets to compensate for the interruption of supplies caused by the Iraqi invasion.
Delegates from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, however, say that unless OPEC allows members that can raise their output to do so immediately, OPEC itself will pay a high price if demand drops.
These delegates say higher oil prices will eventually create a backlash as they have done in the past, when industrialized countries countered rising prices with conservation measures that reduced oil consumption.
A number of member countries, including Indonesia, Algeria and Nigeria, seem to favor a middle ground in which OPEC would raise output to make up for only part of the shortages in the markets.
Their view is that oil prices had been quite weak for a long time earlier this year, and higher prices now are needed to compensate for the earlier losses.
 
A Fundamental Split
But behind the issues of output and prices is a more fundamental split along political and ideological lines.
Among the poorer, more militant members of OPEC, there is an unquestionable antipathy toward the United States and a conviction that Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, the prime advocates of higher production, are acting under strong American pressure.
''We are not here to respond to the wishes of the Americans,'' said an Arab delegate from one of the militant countries. ''This is OPEC, and our mission is to serve the best interest of our members.''
In an argument echoed by several moderate countries, including Nigeria and Indonesia, which are allies of the West, an OPEC official from Algeria said: ''There is no real shortage of oil in the market. If the American and Western oil companies release their stocks of oil instead of hanging on to them to make more money, there will be no shortage.''
Advocates of this view say that even if OPEC now authorized all its members with surplus capacity to produce all the oil they could, this would not amount to the full four million barrels a day missing from Kuwait and Iraq.
 
Delegate From Kuwait
Among the delegates who gathered today, Kuwait's representative, Ali Khalifa al Sabah, the Finance Minister and a senior member of the Kuwaiti ruling family who has been an architect of OPEC policies for a decade, was greeted warmly by most other OPEC ministers.
So far, there has been no sign of the Iraqis, who have indicated that they would wait for the meeting to be elevated into a formal session.
The general sentiment here is that even if Iraq took part, it would not be able to prevent other OPEC members from raising output to compensate for the loss of the four million barrels of oil a day.
In pressing their case for increased production, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela concede that international oil companies, the United States, Japan and Western European countries hold large stocks of oil that could be released to help make up for the shortfall.
But they argue that these stocks are held by rich industrialized nations and that poorer third world countries, like India, Pakistan, Brazil and many African nations, which do not have stocks of oil, are experiencing a real shortage and are facing huge, untenable price increases.
 
A Middle Ground
One OPEC delegate, who is among those who are unable to raise production but strongly favor higher prices, advocates bargaining for a smaller increase in output by Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates. ''Perhaps something on the order of two million barrels instead of say 3.5 or so,'' he said.
But Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have said that under the existing OPEC agreement, which mandates the production of a total of 22.5 million barrels a day by all 13 members at a price of $21 a barrel, there is plenty of room to produce all they can now. Prices now stand at about $31 a barrel and production is substantially below 22.5 million barrels a day.
Some delegates are hoping that the talks do not raise emotions too high. Sadek Boussena, the OPEC conference president and Algeria's oil minister, said in an interview tonight on CNN: ''I have big hopes that all of us will try to remain calm and stay out of matters that do not concern us.''
 
Making a Decision
Mr. Boussena added, ''I think we have to make this decision in a way that allows all OPEC members not to consider this decision as against them.''
The Algerian oil minister noted that the rise in oil prices is not something OPEC can remedy by itself.
He and others have said psychology and market speculation are driving prices up and that these elements have little to do with how much oil is on the market or how much production is missing from Kuwait and Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALGERIA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); QATAR (79%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M



808 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: International Report;
Huge Withdrawals Hurt Gulf Banks

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 26

 BODY:
A huge withdrawal of deposits and the cutting of vital Western and Japanese credit lines have dealt severe blows to the banking systems and economies of the Persian Gulf region.
Much of the capital that has left Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 is believed to have been deposited in Western havens like London, Switzerland and the United States.
As a result of the financial panic, analysts predict, many banks in the region will become insolvent, there will be a wave of bank mergers and the decline of Bahrain as an international banking center, which was already under way, will accelerate.
The weakening of the banks also may signal a bigger economic setback for the region: many governments had ambitious plans to develop their fledgling capital markets and to vastly expand their private sectors to create jobs for their youthful populations. Many of these plans depended on attracting back the huge sums of capital their citizens had invested abroad. 
The private sector in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar and Oman has about $150 billion invested abroad, said Stephen Timewell, editor of Arab Banker, a London-based periodical. ''Governments had hoped for that to come back,'' he said. ''At this stage, it does not look likely.''
And the capital invested abroad is growing. Analysts estimate that $3.7 billion to $5.9 billion, or 25 percent to 40 percent of total deposits, have been withdrawn from banks in the United Arab Emirates since the invasion.
In Saudi Arabia, 10 percent to 15 percent, or $1.6 billion to $2.4 billion, of private-sector deposits in domestic branches may have been withdrawn.
In Bahrain, private customers are believed to have sent abroad 30 to 40 percent of their deposits in commercial banks, or $1.1 billion to $1.5 billion.
Withdrawals from the 55 offshore banks based in Bahrain, which had assets of $72.6 billion, appear not to have been proportionately as large. But analysts say that is because their main depositors - financial institutions and other corporations - have longer-term deposits that cannot be withdrawn instantly.
A story told by Elisabeth Jackson-Moore, general manager of Capital Intelligence, a Cyprus-based bank-rating agency, reflects how little confidence there is in Persian Gulf banks. ''I was speaking with one bank in Dubai who wanted to deposit money with a Japanese bank,'' she said. ''The Japanese bank said: 'No thank you.' ''
 
Hard Currency Sought
The loss of credit lines and the capital flight are not the only blows to gulf banks. After the invasion, the value of local currencies plummeted and trading in them was halted in international financial centers like London. Local ''demand for hard currency, especially dollars, is already putting banking systems under pressure,'' said the London-based Middle East Economic Digest.
Before the invasion, some gulf banks were already having difficulty collecting on loans to Kuwaiti businesses and individuals and to Iraq. Now, repayment is even more problematic.
Some Arab bankers are struggling to sound upbeat. They point out that their profits have typically reflected the level of oil prices. With oil prices, which were $18 a barrel right before the crisis, expected to stay at least in the $20's no matter how the conflict is resolved, their future is promising, they say.
They add that declining investor confidence in the Middle East means that the business of channeling Arab money abroad should remain strong and that the withdrawal of Western and Japanese banks from the region means less competition.
 
A Different View
Analysts are not so sanguine.
''Even if Saddam Hussein were assassinated in Baghdad today, the damage has already been done to gulf banking,'' said Mr. Timewell of Arab Banker. ''It is difficult to see how confidence can be restored over the next few years.''
The crisis hit just as many gulf banks were recovering from their problems of the 1980's: a slump in oil prices, the 1982 collapse of the Kuwaiti stock market and problem loans to Latin America and local borrowers, including members of the Saudi royal family.
They also faced the happy prospect of helping finance the reconstruction of Iraq and Iran. But several banks that loaned Iraq money during its eight-year war with Iran discovered that it was easier to lend the money than to get it back.
There are other lingering problems. With 48 commercial banks for about two million people, said Mr. Timewell, the United Arab Emirates is ''the most overbanked country in the world.''
A lot of banks there will and should go under,'' he said.
 
Insolvencies in Kuwait
Kuwait had one of the most highly developed banking industries in the Middle East; its six domestic banks had assets of about $37.5 billion at the end of last year. But that included about $28 billion at five banks that had been technically insolvent since the stock market collapse there but had been propped up by the Government while they dealt with a mountain of problem loans.
With Iraq in control of Kuwait, and the Kuwaiti dinar, which was worth nearly $3.48 before the invasion, is now essentially valueless, the five banks are not operating for all intents and purposes.
Kuwait's Finance Minister has pledged to use the exiled Government's huge resources outside of Kuwait - believed to total $90 billion to $100 billion - to make sure that Kuwait-controlled companies remain ''secure and stable.'' But it is unclear how the banks could be helped.
The outlook is much brighter for the National Bank of Kuwait, the country's largest domestic bank. Analysts believe that at least 40 percent of its assets, which totaled $13.3 billion at the end of 1989, is invested abroad. The bank is privately owned, has long been profitable and much of its top management is believed to be regrouping in London.
 
Restrictions on Assets
But running the bank from afar, without any records, could be difficult. And many banks in the gulf region with Kuwaiti shareholders have to contend with the freeze or restrictions on their assets in Western countries, which were imposed to keep the assets out of Iraqi hands.
The London-based United Bank of Kuwait is also in relatively good shape. While its shareholders are Kuwaiti financial institutions, it is a British bank and its $4.2 billion in assets are outside Kuwait. Its assets include British residential and commercial mortgages and American real estate.
Yet its leaders are expecting a big drop in deposits as exiled Kuwaitis withdraw money to survive. Christopher Keen, general manager of the United Bank of Kuwait, told The Financial Times that he expects to lose about a third of deposits in coming weeks. ''But we can handle that,'' he said, ''because we have always been a fairly liquid bank and we'll be able to scale down our balance sheet.''
Western banks do not seem to have much to worry about from the gulf crisis: Kuwait was a net creditor to international banks. And data from the Bank for International Settlements indicate that the net lending exposure of Western banks to Iraq is only $5.4 billion, with much of that held by Italy's Banca Nazionale del Lavoro.
 
Strength in Saudi Arabia
With the Saudi central bank firmly behind it and a fairly developed domestic economy, the Saudi banking system is relatively strong. But Mr. Timewell said four or five smaller banks are ''quite weak'' and their long-term viability is dubious.
The Riyadh-based Saudi American Bank may actually come out ahead as a result of the crisis. The nation's third-largest bank, with assets of $7.1 billion, Saudi American is 40 percent owned by Citicorp, so Saudis may see it as a safe place for their money, analysts say.
Much more vulnerable are Bahrain's 19 domestic banks and 55 offshore banks. Bahrain became an international banking center in the late 1970's and early 1980's mainly because it served as a gateway to Saudi Arabia. But that role became increasingly unnecessary as Saudi banks became more sophisticated and as the Saudis cut back on development projects when oil prices declined in the 1980's.
 
Two Dominant Banks
The offshore banks are dominated by the Arab Banking Corporation and the Gulf International Bank, which had assets of $21.7 billion and $9.9 billion, respectively, at the end of 1989, according to The Banker, a magazine published by The Financial Times.
''Obviously, they must have been badly affected by the gulf crisis, but both are in a strong enough position to overcome their problems,'' Mrs. Jackson-Moore of Capital Intelligence said.
Both have big amounts of Latin American loans but have been setting aside large reserves. Mr. Timewell said Gulf International also has as much as $500 million in loans to Iraq, although Mrs. Jackson-Moore thinks it is much less.
She said the two banks have ''quite a wide geographical spread'' in their lending. Arab Banking has also made acquisitions outside the Middle East, including a West German trade bank and retail banks like International Bank of Asia in Hong Kong and Banco Atlantico in Spai.
Still, analysts say it will be a long time before the banking climate returns to where it was before Iraq invaded. Western banks will not rush to restore credit lines, they predict.

GRAPHIC: Graph of top 10 banks in the Persian Gulf (Source: The Banker) (pg. D1); graph indicating assets of commercial banks in countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (Source: National Bank of Kuwait Economic and Financial Bulletin) (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: BAHRAIN (96%); GULF STATES (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); CYPRUS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OMAN (79%); QATAR (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); 

CITY: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE ARAB STATES OF THE GULF (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; BAHRAIN; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); TRENDS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); JOB CREATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (64%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN STEPHEN TIMEWELL (64%); 



809 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Czech Brings Enthusiasm To Fed Event

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Aug. 26

 BODY:
The star of the proceedings at the Federal Reserve's annual summer retreat, dedicated this year to a discussion of central banking in Eastern Europe, turned out to be the Finance Minister of Czechoslovakia, Vaclav Klaus.
An enthusiastic and energetic man, Mr. Klaus gave a rousing luncheon speech in which he endorsed principles that American central bankers hold dear.
''We have all been enchanted by Vaclav Klaus,'' said Michael W. Keran, chief economist at the Prudential Insurance Company of America and a former Fed official. ''His personality is charming. He is very articulate and forceful in giving his view. And his view is that the invisible hand - free markets -works.'' 
Casting aside the go-slow approach toward free markets that has been preferred, for example, by Hungary, Mr. Klaus said that his ministry was orchestrating a rapid switch from central planning. Simultaneously, stiff anti-inflation measures were being applied in the classic style of Western central banks.
Although ''anti-reformers'' have thrown up roadblocks, Mr. Klaus said, price controls and subsidies are quickly being ended and permission is being sought for the rapid sale of state enterprises to private owners. And the Czechoslovak currency, the koruna, is to be made convertible into dollars and other hard currencies soon.
''I would have preferred a gradual, step-by-step approach to the dismantling of central planning, but the situation dictated otherwise,'' Mr. Klaus said. ''History is unfolding before our eyes, and with all necessary fears and risks we have to move forward very quickly.''
Federal Reserve officials spoke of Mr. Klaus's speech as a textbook approach to the design of free markets and said his anti-inflation policy was a lot tougher than might be tried in free-market countries. But they applauded his efforts to fight the inflation that inevitably results from drastic economic changes like those taking place in Czechoslovakia. Mr. Klaus reported that growth in the money supply was being reduced to zero, a measure that often produces a recession in industrial countries.
His speech came on the opening day of a two-day conference that ended on Saturday at a lodge in the mountains of Grand Teton National Park. Twenty-five Federal Reserve officials exchanged views for two days with economists and central bankers from Western Europe and Canada. Each annual conference centers on a theme, and this year's was the role of a central bank in the emerging market economies of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
Central bank officials and ministers from these countries traveled here for the discussions, but Mr. Klaus, more than any other, seemed to match the American sense of the way things should be done.
 
Backed by Volcker and Greenspan
''The central banks are going to have to be tough, keeping some kind of limits on inflation and money growth,'' Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Fed, said in the opening speech. And in the closing summation, Alan Greenspan, the current Fed chairman, wished Mr. Klaus well in his efforts to educate the anti-reformists.
Mr. Klaus, who is 49 years old, asserted that economic growth is not possible while Czechoslovakia is part state-run and part free-market, so the conversion should be rapidly achieved, whatever the disruption and hardship. He passed out a graph to illustrate his argument that inflation must be cured before economic growth can begin, although the cure - roughly equivalent to high interest rates in the United States -discourages purchases and investment.
''There is no way to accelerate growth with the structural difficulties we have,'' Mr. Klaus said in an interview, referring to the state enterprises and other institutions of central planning that remain in place. ''And to have stability during the transition to free markets you have to have slow growth, maybe even zero growth. But I would never use the term recession. Growth in Czechoslovakia is either faster or slower.''
Poland preceded Czechoslovakia in trying to convert quickly to free markets, and it is currently in a severe recession. Mr. Klaus said his country would suffer less because it was beginning the changeover in better shape, without a foreign debt, with a budget surplus and low inflation.
 
Havel Less Enthusiastic
He also said that while his Government was committed to a rapid transition, some officials, including President Vaclav Havel, were less enthusiastic about moving toward free markets than he was.
Mr. Klaus's enthusiasm for free markets was especially vivid in the blunt answer he gave to a question from Mr. Greenspan. The Fed chairman said he wondered about the problems of measuring economic growth in Eastern Europe during a period of transition and uncertainty and asked how Mr. Klaus would deal with this issue: in effect, how would Mr. Klaus measure the impact of his transition policies?
Mr. Klaus, who once worked as an economic forecaster deeply involved in statistics, said he would not even try to measure economic performance until a free-market system was in place. Whatever the impact, the rapid transition to a free-market system, with a minimum of inflation, is clearly the proper strategy, he said, giving Mr. Greenspan a ''damn the torpedos - full speed ahead'' answer.
 
The Savings Overhang
Through the 10 hours of conference sessions, there was much discussion of matters such as how Eastern European currencies could be made convertible to hard currencies and of ways to absorb the savings that Eastern Europeans accumulated during years when they had little to buy. The savings overhang, as it is called, is potentially inflationary, as people rush to buy goods.
But partly because of Mr. Klaus, there was little discussion of the go-slow strategy for developing free markets - putting a tax system in place first, for example, then a credit system and so forth. And among the various speakers, only Richard Cooper of Harvard University advanced the proposition that the hardships of transition might be lessened if a little inflation were permitted.
For the most part the Fed officials and others among the more than 120 people at the conference felt that the people of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union were so disenchanted with the failures of centrally planned economies that they were prepared to endure the hardships created by Mr. Klaus's strategy.
''The step-by-step approach seems to be losing status,'' said Philippe Lagayette, first deputy governor of the Bank of France.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vaclav Klaus (EPA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (71%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); CANADA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; CZECHOSLOVAKIA

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KLAUS, VACLAV (MIN) VACLAV KLAUS (90%); 



810 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Machine Tool Orders Fell 11.9% Last Month

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
New orders for American-made machine tools dropped by 11.9 percent in July, according to a monthly report by the Association for Manufacturing Technology. Economists said the figures showed that the nation's economy had begun slowing before the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
The decline in new orders reflected lower corporate profits, economists said. The lower profits led to continued reductions in capital spending by the nation's automobile makers, which account for more than a third of the nation's machine tool orders. 
The level of machine tool orders stood at $233.7 million in July, compared with June's total of $265.2 million. Shipments plunged by 33.4 percent in July, to $233.4 million, from $250.2 million in June.
 
Typical Summer Slowdown
Albert W. Moore, the president of the Association for Manufacturing Technology, said the decline in orders was largely the result of a typical slowdown in the industry during the summer. ''Machine tool orders are hanging tough, considering that July is usually a slow month, as many manufacturing plants have summer shutdowns and the auto industry is normally in the process of model changeovers,'' he said.
The level of new orders increased by 22.5 percent in July, compared with the month last year, said the association, based in McLean, Va.
But economists said that despite the year-to-year increase, the July numbers reflected troubles within the economy. In recent months, as car sales have slumped, auto makers have sharply curtailed their orders for machine tools. That has particularly affected tool producers, because of the dependence of machine tool makers on the automobile industry.
''My reading of the total package of numbers is that economic growth was extremely slow and fragile before the Middle East situation,'' said Robert J. Stalla, the chief economist with McDonald & Company, a forecasting firm in Cleveland. ''I think that from here on out, there will be higher oil prices, fueling inflation and slowing economic growth. Unless something happens quickly, we're likely to have a recession.''
 
Foreign Orders Off 54%
The July figures included a 54 percent plunge in orders from foreign customers. The analysts said that a single large order from a foreign customer could cause sharp fluctuations in the foreign totals, adding that they did not consider the drop to be significant. The figures also included a 3.5 percent decline in orders from domestic customers.
Many tool makers were concerned about how the Middle East situation might affect oil supplies and whether that would have any impact on the size of the engines to be used by auto makers in Detroit for new models.
Walter J. Aspatore, the president of Cross & Trecker Inc., a large machine tool maker based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., said the crisis would likely lead machine tool manufacturers to seek more business in the oil industry, making tools that aid in drilling and exploration.
''That is one area that is a big user of machine tools that many in the industry have overlooked,'' Mr. Aspatore said. ''I'd look for more emphasis to be placed in that area, and on business overseas.''
 
Indication of Spending
Machine tools are power-driven devices for cutting or shaping metal parts that are used in products ranging from appliances and vehicles to aircraft and construction materials. The strength of tool orders generally reflects the strength of industrial production, and economists consider patterns of machine tool sales to be critical indicators of capital spending by manufacturers.
Orders for metal-cutting tools, which include boring mills and lathes, dropped by 22.5 percent in July from June's level. That segment of the industry typically accounts for three-fourths of new orders. Orders for metal-forming tools were up 14.2 percent in July from June's level.
The machine tool order backlog stood at $1.56 billion in July, down slightly from the June level. The backlog in July of last year was $2.13 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (50%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (92%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC (53%); GIDDINGS & LEWIS MACHINE TOOLS LLC (50%); ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (94%); NEW ORDERS (91%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); RECESSION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



811 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Mexico's Vibrant Untaxed Sector

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
EIGHT blocks from Mexico City's ancient central plaza and historic cathedral is a major shopping district. The streets are as packed with shoppers as Fifth Avenue in New York before Christmas. The shops are mostly makeshift sidewalk stalls, but they display a huge variety of clothing, shoes, household wares, toys and electronic products. Buyers come from all walks of life, and rare is the upper-middle-class home that does not have a videocassette recorder, a refrigerator or a stereo system purchased from vendors like those here, who are prominent participants in Mexico's ''informal economy.''
Tepito, as this shopping district is called, lies at the high end of an off-the-books economy that, if it were on the books, would increase Mexico's gross domestic product by nearly 40 percent, or $80 billion a year, according to estimates of Government and private economists. It is clearly a big source of income, not only for the ''shopkeepers'' of Tepito, but for the tens of thousands of raggedly dressed people who sell Chiclets, toys, wool sweaters, jewelry, packaged snacks and much other new merchandise. 
''Just selling Chiclets or holding out their hands to beg, they can make more than the minimum wage for a formal job,'' said Luis A. Pazos, who owns an economics research center. The national minimum wage is 10,000 pesos a day, or $3.50.
But there is much more to the informal economy than providing income for the unemployed, although that function is a major one in a country where half of the 24 million people of working age do not hold on-the-books jobs. Many of these unemployed migrated to Mexico City in recent years from farms that failed.
Behind these ''salespeople'' are their suppliers, often wealthy wholesalers who get their merchandise from two sources. One is the United States, where electronics products and appliances are bought in quantity and brought into Mexico free of duty - a procedure that requires bribes and partnerships with Government officials. The second source is off-the-books manufacturers, people who make clothing or toys and sometimes employ as many as 200 workers, also off the books.
The key to success for this network is avoiding taxes - not only customs duties, but also sales and income taxes and the various social welfare taxes that legal businesses must pay. Since they do not make tax payments, or pay rent, these underground merchants can sell at 10 to 40 percent below the prices charged by legal shopkeepers. Not surprisingly, there is endless friction between the two groups.
Still, Mexican shoppers are turning to the informal economy in growing numbers, driven to seek bargains because inflation and curbs on wage increases have eroded the purchasing power of many people in recent years.
Given the demand, the informal economy is producing some rather enterprising merchants.
For instance, Rene Daniel Hernandez, 35 years old, a graduate of the University of Mexico, sells television sets, hi-fi systems, compact-disk players and video cameras in Tepito. Leaving his brother to mind the stall, Mr. Hernandez sometimes travels to Los Angeles to buy merchandise, which he brings home in suitcases. But frequently he turns to a wholesaler, who, because he buys in bulk, can give Mr. Hernandez a better price, even after the wholesaler's markup. Mr. Hernandez's own markup might be $15 on a Sony VCR that he sells for $260.
''My prices and profits vary with the flow of shoppers,'' he said. ''The profit margins aren't big, but I can sell 10 VCR's in a day.''
And for the shopper who cannot find a particular item, Mr. Hernandez has a catalogue, from Sony or another manufacturer. The shopper picks out the desired item and makes a down payment. A few days later, Mr. Hernandez makes delivery to the shopper's home, having obtained the item from a wholesaler. Nothing is done on credit, although wholesalers often wait a week to be paid.
So far the Government has tolerated the informal economy; indeed, these merchants are a large source of support for the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party. The party even gives out ''credentials'' to vendors as protection against possible Government harassment.
But this sort of protection deprives the economy of hundreds of millions in tax revenue, assuming that a way could be found to legalize the informal economy. The problem is that Mexico City, where the informal economy is concentrated, lacks the industry and the jobs to absorb the number of people, estimated as high as two million or more, who are operating off the books.
That leaves two alternatives for most of the vendors. One is to migrate to the United States, which they have been doing for years. The other is to migrate to northern Mexico, to cities like Monterrey, Saltillo and Chihuahua, where manufacturing is booming. This migration is now gaining steam.
''The north is an escape from a city that can't support its huge population,'' said Homer Aridjis, a novelist and historian. ''Decentralization is a solution.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO CITY (MEX)

SUBJECT: VENDORS, STREET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (87%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); TRENDS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (68%); WHOLESALERS (67%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (61%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS RENE DANIEL HERNANDEZ (87%); 



812 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Stocks Set a Record

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Share prices in Tokyo today rose to its ninth-largest one-day gain on techincal factors and investor relief after a weekend without news of military conflict in the Middle East.
The Nikkei index of 225 issues closed up 976 points, or 4.04 percent, to 25,141.76. The index ended the morning session up 398.89 points, or 1.65 percent, to 24,564.65. On Friday, the average rose 428.13. 
Late this morning, the Nikkei was up as much as 535.12 points, but the earlier gains were trimmed on profit taking, traders said.
''The market has clearly been oversold, so a modest technical rebound is natural,'' a trader said. ''But the major investors are still very cautious.''
Today's one-day gain was the ninth largest in the Nikkei's history. The index is now 35 percent below its record high of 38,915.87, set on Dec. 29.
In the morning session, volume totaled about 170 million shares, compared with 300 million on Friday. Advancing shares outnumbered declining ones in the early session by 18 to 5, with 679 higher, 189 lower and 105 unchanged. Trading remained thin throughout the remainder of the day.
In Tokyo's money markets, the dollar opened lower against all primary currencies this morning.
''Dollar-yen trading will not be active here today,'' said Kaoru Kondo, a dealer at Security Pacific National Bank after the morning session ended. ''Instead, activity will be led by cross-trading again.''
The dollar opened at 145.20 yen and 1.5483 West German marks, after closing at 145.70 yen and 1.5470 marks here on Friday.
The currency market continues to watch the Persian Gulf situation, with most dealers expecting dollar buying to emerge if fighting occurs. Most of the dealers said underlying dollar sentiment was negative because of concerns over a weakening American economy.
The mark opened at 93.77 yen against its Tokyo close of 94.17 on Friday. The British pound opened at 283.39 yen, after closing at 284.88 yen on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); 

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BONDS (73%); GERMAN MARK (70%); BRITISH POUND (65%); 



813 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Reviewing Deals After the Invasion

BYLINE: By Kurt Eichenwald

 BODY:
THE best of Wall Street's merger experts in the 1980's specialized in determining how much debt their target companies could take on in a leveraged buyout. To do so, they made assumptions about the future, including the direction of interest rates, economic growth, inflation, even oil prices. But none of them figured on Saddam Hussein. The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait has sent Wall Street and corporate America back to the calculators, and a number of the assumptions that determined the prices of takeover deals have been discarded. Since the invasion, oil prices have soared more than 70 percent, increasing inflationary pressure. And the economy, already slowing, appears to many economists to have been pushed to the edge of recession.
Among the deals that investment bankers say are most likely to be affected by the Iraqi invasion are the airline buyouts or merger agreements made in the last year, including the proposed employee-led buyout of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, and the leveraged buyout of NWA Inc., the parent of Northwest Airlines. 
The reasons for the potential troubles in those deals are simple: barring a turnaround, airlines will pay much more for fuel at a time when potential passengers have less money to spend on air travel.
The impact on the UAL deal, which has yet to obtain financing, has been the most striking since the Iraqi invasion. UAL's stock price has tumbled from $140 a share on the last day of trading in July to $93.50 a share on Friday. And the deadline to arrange financing for the $4.38 billion bid had to be extended for two months.
The situation is not so difficult at NWA, which was purchased in 1989 by a consortium of buyers led by Alfred Checchi, a former Marriott Corporation executive from Beverly Hills, Calif. Although that deal has been completed, with the most of the $3.35 billion in debt financing coming from the Bankers Trust Company, some fear that the rise in jet fuel costs could cause problems that were not anticipated during the buyout.
''Northwest could fall into trouble,'' said one investment banker who has examined the deal. ''The only question is: What are they going to do about it?''
A number of analysts said that while they had expected the company to try to go public again by next year, the situation in Iraq had changed their assumptions. ''They are likely to try and refinance,'' said Helane Becker, an airline analyst with Lehman Brothers.
John Dasburg, the executive vice president of finance and administation for NWA, said through a spokesman that the company had ''no plans to refinance the acquisition debt.'' But Wall Street executives involved in the talks said that a number of commercial banks had begun to scrutinize NWA's financial position, apparently with an interest in putting capital into the company.
Unlike UAL, which is trying to raise its debt now, NWA has been paying off its obligations. The company has paid down its debt faster than had been required under its agreement with Bankers Trust, with the result, one banker said, that the company will not be required to make any additional payments until 1992.
NWA reduced its $3.35 billion in debt to $2.1 billion as of the end of March, and it projects a debt level of $1.75 billion by the end of the year, said Bob Gibons, a spokesman for the company.
''They are way ahead of schedule with the banks,'' said Paul P. Karos, an airline analyst with the First Boston Corporation. ''So maybe there is some breathing room here for them in this situation.''
That debt reduction would put the company in a better debt position than a number of other airlines, analysts said. Kevin Murphy, an industry analyst with Morgan Stanley & Company, said there were several airlines whose debt levels, combined with their business prospects, put them in worse shape than Northwest. ''If they have to walk the gangplank,'' he said, referring to NWA, ''they have a lot of people in front of them.''
Moreover, NWA has assets that it has turned to its advantage. For example, the company got $384 million earlier this year by mortgaging property it owns in Japan through the Tobishima Corporation, a construction company based in Tokyo.
But NWA faces some financial hurdles that have been raised a little higher by the crisis in the Persian Gulf. By Sept. 29, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, one of the equity investors in the consortium of buyers, must significantly reduce its $400 million equity stake in NWA as part of an agreement between the company and the Transportation Department. KLM has announced that it will cut back its equity holdings by $250 million.
Wall Street had expected the Checci group to try to repurchase the stake, although now some say it is unclear whether another equity partner will have to be brought in.
Nevertheless, bankers and analysts said, Northwest's management, which had been exploring plans to buy a large part of Eastern Airlines and had been expected to issue shares by 1991, will most likely have to scale back its plans.
''I don't think they'll be bidding on Eastern anymore,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''And this may thwart Checci's ability to go public anytime in the near term.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (83%); MAR (NYSE) (65%); HST (NYSE) (65%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (65%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (83%); NWA INC (69%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (65%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (65%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KUWAIT; IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MERGERS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RECESSION (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); JET FUEL (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); 



814 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Higher Long-Term Rates Predicted

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The week before Labor Day is normally one of Wall Street's slowest periods. But with the Persian Gulf crisis becoming increasingly volatile, the atmosphere in the financial markets will hardly be holiday-like in the coming days.
''It will be one of the slowest, but one of the most anxious weeks of the year,'' said Robert A. Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities International.
''In effect,'' writes David Hale, chief economist at Kemper Financial Services, in his weekly letter to clients, ''financial asset prices are now being driven by the looming struggle between the eagle and the scorpion, not Wall Street's traditional bidding competition between bulls and bears.'' 
 
Worsening Is Seen
Most traders and analysts in the credit markets seemed fairly certain last week that the crisis would probably get worse, And long-term interest rates, which by Friday had spurted to their highest levels in 17 months, would almost certainly move higher, they said. ''If we have a war, rates will go higher,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Shearson Lehman Brothers. ''If we don't, this sell-off is vastly overdone.''
In the three weeks since Iraq invaded Kuwait, bond yields, tracking the surge in oil prices, have risen by 80 basis points, or hundredths of a point, to 9.15 percent.
Even with the possibility that shooting in the Middle East could easily push interest rates higher, some money managers said that current yields were very attractive. ''On Monday I intend to put some money into long bonds,'' said Marshall B. Front, an executive vice president at Stein, Roe & Farnham, a Chicago-based investment advisory firm that manages close to $10 billion in fixed-income assets. ''Even though uncertainties remain high, we think that interest rates are attractive.''
 
'Pretty Good' Outlook
William H. Gross, a managing director at the Pacific Investment Management Company in Newport Beach, Calif., said, ''Oil and the potential for war are two giant factors in the market right now.
Nevertheless, ''the outlook for bonds six months down the road is pretty good,'' said Mr. Gross, whose firm manages a $16 billion portfolio of fixed-income securities.
Underpinning the positive longer-term outlook is a very soggy economy, one that may be pushed into a recession by the rise in oil prices.
Although the markets waved off the information, the Commerce Department did little to alter the view that growth was tepid at best even before the outbreak of the current crisis when it reported on Friday that the economy grew at a 1.2 percent rate in the second quarter. The new figure was unchanged from a preliminary estimate released in late July.
''Oil prices are above $30 a barrel not because we lost Kuwait, but because the world is waiting for war,'' said Mr. Barbera of Shearson. ''If oil falls back to $23 to $24 a barrel, we will be in for a mild recession, and bonds will be at the point where they can stop worrying about oil, and rally.''
 
Effects Called Minimal
The recent rise in interest rates can only increase the chances of a recession, even though analysts said the effects of the increase thus far had been minimal. ''There are some people who will be staring at higher mortgage costs,'' said Mr. Brusca of Nikko Securities, ''but the run-up in long rates has not caused much harm. The question is how long this will last.''
The Persian Gulf crisis is likely to be the sole driving force in the credit markets this week. Auctions of new two-year and five-year Treasury notes will be held tomorrow and on Wednesday, but the economic calendar is very light.
Residents of the troubled Northeast hardly need more bad news, but the rise in oil prices and interest rates is almost certain to make conditions worse. To highlight the region's poor economic health, analysts at Salomon Brothers have rejiggered the ''misery index,'' a simple indicator that in previous incarnations was compiled by adding year-to-year changes in consumer prices to the civilian unemployment rate.
 
Time Lag in Job Data
Because of big time lags in reporting regional unemployment rates, Brian Jones, a Salomon economist, chose for this exercise to subtract the annual percentage change in nonfarm payroll employment from the annual percentage change in consumer prices. For the 12 months ended in June, the most recent month for which state payroll data are available, consumer price inflation outpaced employment growth by 3 percent nationally, Mr. Jones said, placing the misery index 3 percentage points above the 1986 rate.
In the Northeast, by comparison, consumer prices rose by 5.2 percentge points more than employment growth over the same period. ''Declining employment and the erosion of real consumer spending power is reflected in confidence surveys in the Northeast,'' Mr. Jones wrote in Salomon's weekly ''Comments on Credit.''
For the 12 months ended in July, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for New England fell by more than 64 percent. The index for the mid-Atlantic region declined by 25 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: GULF STATES (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); STEIN ROE & FARNHAM INC (53%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US LABOR DAY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BILL GROSS (57%); 



815 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Auction Only Bills and Notes

 BODY:
Treasury financings this week are confined to bill and note auctions, beginning with today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills. Tomorrow there will be an auction of new two-year notes and on Wednesday an auction of new five-year notes.
By late Friday the rate on the three-month bill was 7.46 percent and 7.48 percent for a six-month bill. In when-issued trading the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 8.26 percent, while the yield on a five-year note was 8.67 percent. 
Government agency issues expected to be offered this week include a $4.2 billion financing by the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, consisting of four consolidated systemwide bond issues. The agency will be offering $1.53 billion of securities, due Dec. 3, 1990; $1.59 billion of securities due March 1, 1991; $825 million of an issue due Sept. 3, 1991, and a $250 million issue due Sept. 1, 1992.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
WEDNESDAY
 
Southern California Gas Co., 750 shares ($100,000 each) of auction preferred stock, BBB/A-1/A+. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
SFP Pipeline Holdings Inc., $220 million in variable rate exchangeable debentures, due 2010, rated Baa-3 by Moody's. Goldman, Sachs.
 
Sonat Inc., $575 million face amount (about $200 million in proceeds) of liquid yield option notes, due 2005, NR/Baa-3/BBB-. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
 
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX-EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
 
California, $700 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
Houston, $75 million in revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
 
Detroit, $65 million in general obligation bonds. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
 
New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Authority, $287 million in home buyer revenue bonds. Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp.
 
Orange County, Fla., $58 million in tourist development tax revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
 
Oregon, $81.9 million in certificates of participation for the Department of General Service. Morgan Stanley & Co.
 
Puerto Rico, $275 million in general obligation bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
 
Wyoming Community Development Agency, $50 million in single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Bear, Stearns & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (70%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (70%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (67%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (67%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (76%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); FEDERAL FARM CREDIT BANKS FUNDING CORP (70%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS CO (68%); SFP PIPELINE HOLDINGS INC (67%); SONAT INC (66%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (74%); BOND ISSUES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (66%); TOURISM (50%); 



816 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Official Urges Lower Rates

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug 26

 BODY:
Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher said today in a television interview that interest rates should be cut to help avoid recession.
''I think we have a slow-growth period here, and we can keep it from going into recession, but easing interest rates would certainly help a lot,'' Mr. Mosbacher said on the ABC program ''Business World.'' He said the Federal Reserve should lower rates.
The Commerce Secretary also said a free-trade agreement with Mexico was a priority now that the United States needed to find new oil sources because of the Persian Gulf crisis.
''Mexico is willing to give us all the extra oil they have, but 100,000 barrels a day is all they talk about, which is not much in the total mix. We lost over four million barrels a day worldwide,'' Mr. Mosbacher said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: MOSBACHER, ROBERT A SR (SEC) ROBERT A MOSBACHER (93%); 



817 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: The Media Business: Ad Scene;
Sponsors' New Message: Buy It, but Have Patience

BYLINE: By Randall Rothenberg

 BODY:
ADVERTISING, with its brassy promise of immediate, when-it-absolutely-positively-has-to-be-there-overnight results, has begun to croon a softer, sweeter tune: Buy now, be satisfied later.
Consumer-product manufacturers who once vowed instantaneous answers to bad breath and engine knock are now using their television commercials and print ads to ask for a little time. The pledge of fast change embodied in the old Crest toothpaste anthem - ''Look, Ma! No cavities!'' - has given way to appeals to patience, as illustrated by the new Texaco System 3 gasoline campaign that pleads, ''Five tanks is all we ask.'' Where it once took a spoonful of Cocoa Puffs to send its tufted spokesbird into paroxysms of delight, today Grape Nuts cereal is entreating, ''Try it for a week.'' 
Audi automobiles are even requesting a ''three-year test drive.''
John Neiman, the chief creative officer at the D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles advertising agency in New York, believes the ad industry, if not the nation, has entered an ''era of less-than-instant gratification,'' which he contrasts to a past decade stuffed with quick fixes like ''junk bonds'' and tax cuts.
He dates the transition in the marketing Zeitgeist to 1988, a year that some political philosophers find notable for the election of George Bush as President, but that Mr. Neiman recalls as the time that Kelly Lebrock began appearing in ads for Pantene shampoo and hair conditioner.
As in conventional ads featuring celebrity spokesmen, Ms. Lebrock, a raven-haired model and actress, confessed to occasionally unruly hair and promoted Pantene as the solution. But in a startling departure from the norm, she conceded: ''It won't happen overnight. But it will happen.''
It may be hard to believe that the kingdom of one-hour Martinizing and fast-food franchises is becoming the land of deferred gratification. But there are tantalizing, if anecdotal, bits of evidence. Sales of some microwave products have begun to plummet; microwave pizza sales dropped 16.6 percent by the end of March from a year earlier, according to Arbitron/ SAMI, the research service.
More telling, perhaps, is that sales of ground coffee increased by two million pounds last year, while instant coffee sales fell by six million pounds, according to John C. Maxwell, an analyst with Wheat First Securities in Richmond.
D.M.B.&B.'s own campaigns for Clearasil acne medication well represent the shift. About a year and a half ago, the agency released a commercial entitled ''Double Zap.'' A panoply of fast-moving images set against a throbbing musical undercurrent, the rock-video-style ad opened with an announcer asserting: ''You can run but you can't hide. You zap one pimple, another one appears. You need to zap, zap, double zap your zits.'' Sure enough, with one brush of a Clearasil pad, the commercial's distraught protagonist is out and about, his arm around his girlfriend, his face miraculously unblemished.
This year, the agency introduced a new commercial - a week in the life of an auburn-haired lass played out to the more amiable early 60's song, ''Da Do Run Run Run.'' On Monday, she discovers a facial imperfection. On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, she applies Clearasil, allowing her to venture out happily on Friday with ''a guy named Bill.''
The ad concludes, ''Clearasil guarantees you fewer pimples in five days or your money back.''
Mr. Neiman attributes the change in marketing strategies to consumer cynicism that has been fed by television programming and advertising. ''We are in an era saturated by public-service ads and other images showing the problems of AIDS and drugs, which tell people that solutions will take years,'' he said. ''A decade ago, everything was 'Ozzie and Harriet' happy endings. But today, you try to run a commercial that says, 'Try this - you'll feel good overnight,' after an AIDS or anti-drug ad, and consumers will turn you off.''
Barbara Feigin, research director at Grey Advertising, the agency responsible for the Pantene and Grape Nuts campaigns, puts a more positive spin on the social changes driving the deferred-gratification ads. Americans aren't more cynical, she says; they are more mature.
''America is really getting older and wiser,'' she said, noting that the median age of the American population today is 33, up from about 30 a decade ago. ''As we asked the marketing implications, we realized you don't really need to argue the consumer into believing.''
A Grey survey of 477 households released earlier this year even determined that more than half the American population, representing two-thirds of all spending power in the country, fitted in a category the agency called ''the New Grown-Ups,'' who are more concerned than the generation that preceded them about home, hearth, family and the future.
Of course, the ''era of less-than-instant gratification'' may be nothing more than Madison Avenue chasing its own video shadows. F. Thomas Juster, an economist at the University of Michigan's Survey Research Center, which conducts monthly surveys of consumer attitudes and behavior, noted that the savings rate, which has been declining for years, continued to fall, and that home-equity loans and other forms of borrowing continued to rise.
''The casual evidence all goes in the direction of saying that people are, if anything, more consumption-oriented and more instant-gratification-oriented,'' Mr. Juster said. ''People are spending more and saving less. Everything is, 'let's get it today.' ''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (79%); FRANCHISING (77%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (71%); COFFEE & TEA (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); FILM (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FAST FOOD (61%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); ACNE (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHENBERG, RANDALL GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 



818 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Gulf Crisis Has Brazil in a Tailspin

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO

 BODY:
Shock waves from the crisis in the Persian Gulf are rippling through Brazil's economy, swelling the bill on oil imports, threatening an anti-inflation program, deepening a recession and freezing a close trade relationship with Iraq.
The rise in oil prices, to more than $30 a barrel from $18, is expected to cost the cash-strapped nation an extra $1.6 billion for this year. Last year, Brazil imported $3.4 billion worth of oil.
To pay the extra oil costs, Brazil is expected to draw down its foreign exchange reserves that would otherwise have gone to service the foreign debt or to pay for productive imports. 
 
Drop in G.N.P. Seen
''Brazil has become poorer,'' said Antonio Kandir, the Secretary of Economic Policy. Before the oil price increases, economists predicted that Brazil's gross national product would shrink by 3 percent this year.
Before Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, the two countries supplied a third of Brazil's oil imports. Brazil is negotiating replacement purchases from Iran, Malaysia and Venezuela. Brazil imports about half of the oil it uses, down from 85 percent during the 1973 oil crisis.
To cope with the higher oil prices, Brazil's Government has raised domestic oil prices. In the coming days, it is expected to accelerate the price increases for domestic fuel, impose limited rationing and increase the efficiency of an existing alternative energy program that uses alcohol as automobile fuel.
 
Inflation Plan at Risk
The sharp rise in oil prices may shake the program of President Fernando Collor de Mello to reduce inflation. Since taking office in March, Mr. Collor has cut Brazil's monthly inflation rate to about 10 percent, from 80 percent.
A spurt of inflation next month would be politically inopportune for Mr. Collor, since congressional and gubernatorial elections are on Oct. 3.
Although Brazil has maintained an extensive trading relationship with Iraq, Brazilian diplomats have vowed to abide by the United Nations embargo. Last year, Brazil was Iraq's second-largest source of industrial imports, after the United States. And Iraq was Brazil's eighth-largest trading partner.
In the 1980's, Brazil was an important supplier to Iraq of tanks, rockets, cars, canned beef products and frozen chickens. Since the 1970's, Brazilians have built hotels, highways and a railroad in Iraq, and have conducted an engineering study for Baghdad's subway.
During the eight-year war between Iraq and Iran, heavy Iraqi arms purchases virtually created an arms industry outside Sao Paulo. But last year, Iraq defaulted on weapons bills totaling about $120 million. Because of the defaults, a rocket maker, Avibras Aerospacial S.A., and a tank manufacturer, Engesa, filed for protection from creditors this year.
In a deal that could save the tank maker, Engesa is negotiating to sell 318 Engesa Osorio tanks to Saudi Arabia for $2.2 billion.
 
Company Is Owed $530 Million
In another Brazilian venture, Construtora Mendes Junior, a construction company, is building a highway and an irrigation system in Iraq. But the company is reportedly owed $530 million by the country, part of a larger $1.3 billion debt owed by Iraq to public and private business creditors.
This year, as Iraq's reputation as a delinquent debtor spread, Brazilian sales tumbled. Last year, Brazil sold $343 million in manufactured goods to Iraq. In the first six months of this year, sales totaled $84 million - the worst such period in a decade.
Besides the sweeping economic and political problems facing Brazil, 290 Brazilians are trapped in Iraq, a legacy of the once-flourishing trade relationship. Many Brazilians say the Iraqis have delayed issuing exit visas to put pressure on Brazil to resume arms and food shipments.
''Iraq blackmails Brazil,'' read a recent front-page headline in Rio's independent daily newspaper, Jornal do Brasil.
The term ''hostages'' has also crept into news accounts about the Brazilians in Iraq, largely engineers and construction workers.
 
Pressure From Employers
Demanding ''the liberation of all Brazilians'' in Iraq, five Brazilian companies with employees in Iraq have written to Brazil's Foreign Minister, Francisco Rezek, objecting to ''the nonissuance of exit visas by Iraqi authorities.''
Counseling patience, the Foreign Minister said in a recently published interview: ''The use of the word 'hostage' represents an expansion. It would be an abuse of the word's meaning.''
Brazil ''never imagined that breaking the commercial embargo of Iraq would help the Brazilians who are there,'' Jose Vicente Pimentel, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said.
In a front-page editorial, Jornal do Brasil recently called Iraq's action ''crazy.''
Magazines have also printed sympathetic interviews with Kuwait's Ambassador in Brasilia, Faisal Rashe al-Ghais. After Iraqi diplomats demanded to take possession of the Kuwaiti Embassy last week, the Kuwaiti diplomat gave interviews with an automatic weapon by his desk.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazilians fear that President Saddam Hussein will try to use hostages to force Brazil to resume supplying Iraq with food and weapons like the Cascavel light tank. Some 290 Brazilians are still trapped in Iraq. (Associated Press); graph of Brazil's foreign oil shipments (Source: Petrobas, Petroleum Intelligence Weekly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL; MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IMPORT TRADE (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); FROZEN FOODS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); BEEF (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); POULTRY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (70%); ELECTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); GOVERNORS (64%); MEATS (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 



819 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
IRAQ IS SAID TO ORDER SHIPS NOT TO OPPOSE INSPECTIONS; U.S. EXPELS BAGHDAD ENVOYS

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., Aug. 27

 BODY:
Iraq has reversed orders to its merchant ships, instructing them not to resist if American or other naval forces try to board the vessels for inspections as part of the international blockade, United States officials said today.
Officials in Washington interpreted the new orders as a possibly conciliatory move by Iraq in advance of a mediation mission to the Middle East by the United Nations Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar.
But President Bush said today that he saw no immediate hope for ''fruitful negotiations'' to end the 26-day-old Persian Gulf standoff. The Administration ordered two-thirds of the staff of the Iraqi Embassy in Washington to leave the country, and there were new reports of roundups of foreigners in Iraq and Kuwait.
 
Bush Firm on Iraqi Pullout
In remarks that seemed intended to avoid any sign of faltering as the United States expands its presence in the gulf, Mr. Bush said at a news conference at his vacation home here that there was ''no flexibility'' on the United States' basic demand that President Saddam Hussein unconditionally withdraw Iraqi forces from Kuwait. 
Still, Mr. Bush said that the United States was willing to open a dialogue with Baghdad. To achieve a Iraqi withdrawal, he said, ''you have to talk.''
Mr. Perez de Cuellar said today that he would seek the ''full implementation'' of Security Council resolutions demanding that Baghdad withdraw from Kuwait and free all detained foreigners. [Page A13.] Some Administration officials cited the Secretary General's impending visit to the Middle East as a sign that the gulf crisis might enter a lull in which the focus would shift from military tensions to diplomatic overtures.
 
U.S. Commanders 'on Hold'
Although the American military buildup in Saudi Arabia and nearby waters continued unabated today, Pentagon officials said their commanders in the Middle East were essentially ''on hold'' while diplomats renew efforts to solve the crisis.
Western European nations also continued to bolster their forces. France announced that it was sending combat helicopters to Saudi Arabia, the first ground forces committed by that country since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, and Qatar joined other Arab states in the Persian Gulf in making its military installations available to the multinational force.
Administration and Pentagon officials in Washington said they had received intelligence reports from the Middle East indicating that Iraq had rescinded an order that the captains of its merchant ships continue to defy the blockade of Iraqi shipping.
The source of the reports was not disclosed, but it was presumed that they came from intercepted radio messages. The officials said that the Iraqi captains, who have already ignored two sets of warning shots from United States Navy vessels, have since been ordered to stop on demand and to cooperate with boarding parties. Public Relations Move? The officials said the new orders might simply be a public relations gesture by Baghdad in advance of Mr. Perez de Cuellar's trip to Jordan, where he will meet on Thursday with Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq. But the officials said the new orders might genuinely be intended to avert the possibility of warfare at a potential flashpoint in the Middle East, the waters around the Arabian Peninsula where scores of warships are trying to cut off all Iraqi shipping.
Administration officials noted that the Iraqi military has made no overt move on the United States Embassy in Kuwait City. The mission is one of several that have been surrounded by Iraqi troops.
But Margaret D. Tutwiler, the State Department spokeswoman, said in Washington that Iraqi forces had detained another 7 American citizens in Kuwait since Friday, taking 6 of them to the Regency Hotel there and the seventh to an undisclosed location. That brings the numbered of detained Americans to 63, with 42 in Iraq and 21 in Kuwait.
The State Department said it learned late tonight that an American man in his 50s died in Basra, Iraq, of a heart attack. The Iraqi Foreign Ministry informed the American Embassy of the death and officials were trying to confirm the man's identity. It was not clear whether he was one of the Americans held by the Iraqis, a State Department spokeswoman said.
 
Detention of 3 Denounced
Earlier, Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, denounced an Iraqi decision to prevent three young American men from leaving Iraq late Sunday with 52 other dependents of diplomats who crossed into Turkey. Mr. Fitzwater said Iraq had ''once again reneged on its pledge'' to allow the dependents to leave the country.
The three were sent back to the United States Embassy in Baghdad after they were denied permission to cross the border with the rest of their convoy. A State Department spokesman said the three dependents were ''apparently detained because they were males over the age of 18.''
Of the 52 freed, 47 are expected to arrive around midday Tuesday on a chartered military plane at Andrews Air Force Base in suburban Maryland, outside Washington. The other 5 will travel to points outside the United States. The Americans released included 19 women and 33 children, including 10 under the age of 3.
In London, the Foreign Office said the Iraqis rounded up 8 more Britons in Kuwait on Sunday night and detained them at a ''civilian establishment'' in Kuwait City. It said it had learned that two others had been detained at an earlier date, increasing the number of Britons held to 157.
Mr. Bush said he was confident that Iraq would not retaliate militarily for the United States' decision to expel 36 of the 55 Iraqi diplomats and nondiplomatic staff members of the embassy in Washington. The State Department gave the Iraqi Embassy until 4:30 P.M. Thursday to comply with the expulsion, which was ordered in retaliation for the Iraqi crackdown on the American Embassy in Kuwait.
Iraq announced the annexation of Kuwait and subsequently ordered all foreign embassies closed. The United States and many other countries have defied that order, saying that they do not recognize the annexation. #7 of 36 Are Diplomats The State Department said that 7 of the 36 Iraqis covered by the expulsion order are accredited diplomats, and that the other 29 are nondiplomatic staff members.
Miss Tutwiler said the Deputy Secretary of State, Lawrence S. Eagleburger, summoned the Iraqi Ambassador, Mohammed al-Mashat, to the State Department today to inform him of the expulsion order. The Iraqi envoy called the action ''unfair, unjust, uncalled for, because we haven't touched your embassy in Baghdad.''
The State Department was also preparing a diplomatic note that would restrict the 19 remaining diplomatic personnel to a 25-mile radius around the Iraqi Embassy, revoke multiple-entry privileges for Iraqi diplomats, and restrict the dispersal of money by the Iraqi Embassy to Iraqi students, Miss Tutwiler said.
She said that ''a number'' of other nations had ''indicated that they will be taking actions similar to our own.'' She did not name the other countries.
Mr. Bush, who has been traveling between Washington and his vacation home here over the past three weeks, planned to return to Washington on Tuesday to meet with members of Congress on the gulf crisis and to remain in the capital until Thursday. The President said today that he would also meet with aides to discuss energy supplies and efforts to reduce the Federal budget deficit.
 
Avoids Raising Hopes
Addressing reporters today after meeting with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada, Mr. Bush seemed anxious not to raise public expectations about the trip to the Middle East by Mr. Perez de Cuellar.
The United States is open to talks between Iraqi officials and the American charge d'affaires in Baghdad, Joseph C. Wilson 4th, Mr. Bush said. He said that if Mr. Perez de Cuellar tries to persuade the Iraqi Government to comply with United Nations resolutions demanding a withdrawal from Kuwait, ''so much the better.''
But when asked if he had become more optimistic about the hopes for a diplomatic settlement, Mr. Bush said: ''I don't particularly see more hope now because it's so clear what the world is demanding of Saddam Hussein. Clearly the objectives remain the same: Get out of Kuwait and restore the rightful leaders to their place.''
He added, ''Saddam Hussein has been so resistant to complying with international law that I don't yet see fruitful negotiations.''
Mr. Bush said he did not plan to seek assurances from Mr. Perez de Cuellar that he would not discuss any compromise with the Iraqis on the United Nations' basic demands.
''It's inconceivable to me that the Secretary General, an experienced diplomat, a good leader, would do that,'' he said. ''I think it would be gratuitous for me to discuss that with him.''
Mr. Bush said, ''There is no flexibility on Iraq getting out of Kuwait and the rulers being permitted to come back to Kuwait.''
But the Administration's position beyond that point remains unclear. Although Mr. Bush insists that the deposed Emir of Kuwait be restored to his throne, the Administration acknowledges that the gulf crisis is likely to create new pressure to democratize Kuwait's Government in some way.
 
Jordan Says U.S. Halted Ships
AMMAN, Jordan, Aug. 27 (Reuters) - Jordan said today that United States warships had intercepted three cargo ships bound for the Red Sea port of Aqaba in the last two days and forced one to turn back.
The official news agency Petra quoted the port director of Aqaba, Awad Tell, as saying that the Zorba Express, registered in St. Vincent, and the Kalidos, registered in India, were inspected and allowed to proceed but that a third ship, the SGM Paris, had been denied entry to the port. Aqaba is Jordan's only outlet to the sea.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush at a news conference yesterday in Kennebunkport, Me. (Reuters) (pg. A1); Air Force munitions specialists playing a game of checkers yesterday using discarded plastic caps from Sidewinder missiles in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, after completing their 12-hour shifts. (Associated Press) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); GULF STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); QATAR (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES ; HOSTAGES; AMERICANS ABROAD; MILITARY ACTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); NAVIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); PEREZ DE CUELLAR, JAVIER (SEC GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 



820 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Bush Facing Scrutiny by Congress On His Policy in the Persian Gulf

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
After 25 days of remarkably clear sailing, perhaps unparalleled in a foreign policy crisis in the last quarter-century, President Bush is about to face closer scrutiny from Congress for his policy in the Middle East.
Many members of Congress, though scattered across the country and the world on vacations or other trips, have intently followed the events in the Persian Gulf. So far, most have approved of most that Mr. Bush has said and done, but they do not see clearly where the United States goes from here.
Few are openly critical, many are apprehensive, some are fearful.
''This is the easy time for the President,'' said Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, a conservative Republican. ''He's done terrific so far, rallying the world behind his policy, responding vigorously to aggression. But now the real test starts. A lot of people in Congress are going to start to ask pointed questions.'' 
Representative Dante B. Fascell, the Florida Democrat who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said that ''the time has come to deepen and broaden the national dialogue on steps yet to be taken.''
The questioning may begin in earnest Tuesday, when Mr. Bush, again interrupting his vacation in Kennebunkport, Me., returns to Washington to meet at the White House with the Congressional leadership and then at the Old Executive Office Building with senators and representatives from committees concerned with foreign and military policy.
At first, the inquiries are likely to be mild, and the Administration can count on stalwarts like Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Senate Armed Services Committee, to mute whatever doubts they have. Visiting American troops in Saudi Arabia today, the influential Mr. Nunn was supportive, telling a small group of marines, ''This is the world against Saddam Hussein.''
 
Some of the Questions
From comments made already, and all but drowned out by the chorus of praise for Mr. Bush, it is possible to discern some of the things on the minds of the lawmakers: Who's paying for this? What's the long-term goal? What about the hostages?
A more aggressive American policy, involving an attack on Iraqi military or Governmental installations, would certainly arouse passions on Capitol Hill. Representative Les Aspin, the Wisconsin Democrat who heads the House Armed Services Committee, remarked that the President does not now have ''the political mandate to conduct a military attack on objectives inside Kuwait or inside Iraq.''
But even without such a catalyst, many foresee much more intense Congressional scrutiny when the current recess ends and Congress as a whole returns to Washington on Sept. 5.
A prominent Republican Representative, speaking on condition that he not be identified, said that time was the enemy of the President's policy, and that ''as the Iraqis work on the hostage families and whip up emotions in this country, George Bush is going to feel plenty of heat from people on the Hill.''
Hoping to delay that as long as possible, Mr. Bush has been reluctant to talk very much about the fate of the Americans trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. His aides say that anything the President might say would inflame the situation.
On television on Sunday, Senator Bob Kerrey, a Nebraska Democrat who won the Medal of Honor during the Vietnam War, inquired into a potential weak spot, saying that he could not support a policy based on the idea that ''we're going to go there and have our young people die so that we can have cheap oil here at home.''
Anticipating that criticism, Administration officials in recent days have been emphasizing the need to set right a political wrong - Iraq's occupation of Kuwait - rather than the need to avoid an economic peril: the loss of the Arabian peninsula's vast oil reserves, which Mr. Bush made much of in a speech in Houston two weeks ago.
 
Concern About Objectives
Then there is the question of objectives. Some members of Congress, mainly conservatives, have expressed concern about the President's pledge to reinstate the Emir of Kuwait, whom they regard as an antidemocratic feudal oligarch, as the ruler of a little sheikdom.
Others, led by Mr. Aspin, argue not that the President has set dubious goals but that he has failed to aim far enough. The Wisconsin Democrat said the President should state a clear goal: ''Saddam Hussein has got to go, or his army has got to go.'' Otherwise, he said, the United States will be faced with the problem of Baghdad more or less permanently in a position to threaten Saudi Arabia and influence its oil prices.
''I'm afraid we're in a no-win situation,'' Mr. D'Amato said in a telephone interview from Cairo. ''We say the embargo will eventually force Saddam to pull back because he won't be able to feed his people. But if there is famine, that will create a moral dilemma for us. Can you imagine the TV pictures of starving kids?
''That will inevitably force a lifting of the blockade on food.''
Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, argues that Congress has been quiescent at least partly because it approves of handling the problem through the United Nations, ''without the surreptitiousness shown by the White House in many past crises.'' It is therefore willing, he said, to back off from any intensive examination of what the White House does.
But most people on Capitol Hill see little disposition in Congress to abandon the role in making foreign policy that it has hacked out for itself in a series of struggles with the Executive Branch since the Vietnam War.
Instead, they see a Presidential policy that has so far won wide support - in Congress and among foreign governments - but that will almost certainly lose some of that support as time goes by. By moving to reassure Congress through Tuesday's large-scale briefing, the first of its kind since the crisis began, Mr. Bush is trying to solidify his support while his political leverage is greatest.
 
Nunn Wants More Arabs
IN SAUDI ARABIA, Aug. 27 (Special to The New York Times) - Senator Nunn said today that there was not enough Arab participation in the international force here and that a greater effort had to be made to bring Arab troops to Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Nunn said he would bring up the matter with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. Arab forces are assigned in the north, but in relatively small numbers. Egypt's forces here are believed to number several thousand.
Senator Nunn was part of the first Congressional group to visit here. Other members of the group were the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas; Senator John W. Warner of Virginia, the ranking Republican member of the Armed Services Committee; Senator Jake Garn, a Utah Republican; Senator D'Amato; Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma; Senator Steve Symms, Republican of Idaho, and Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida.
The Senators mingled with Marine and Army troops, taking down phone numbers to call wives and friends back home. Under the rules imposed by the Pentagon on reporters here, the location cannot be discloed.
The four-hour visit here was one stop in a six-nation trip, which includes visits to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. Before speaking to reporters, the Senators were briefed by the troops' commander, Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, the head of the Central Command, who is eager to maintain Congressional support for the mission.
Senator Nunn said the United States had assembled a sufficent force to deter an Iraqi attack.
''An Iraqi attack on Saudi Arabia would be national suicide,'' Mr. Nunn said. ''You cannot say that the man won't do it. But if he is logical he won't do it.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An American field medical vehicle from a unit of the 82d Airborne Division passing a herd of camels yesterday in the Saudi desert. (Associated Press) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); KUWAIT (93%); GULF STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); CONSERVATISM (74%); APPROVALS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (86%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 



821 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Tonga Seeks Satellite Empire in Space

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
Spurred by an ambitious American entrepreneur, a tiny South Pacific kingdom has started what amounts to a turf battle in space that could affect the future control of satellite communications between Asia and the United States.
The island nation of Tonga has seized on a loophole in international law to lay claim to the last 16 desirable unoccupied orbital parking spaces for satellites that can link Asia, the Pacific and the United States. Control of the spaces, called ''slots,'' determines who can provide satellite communications to a given part of the world. The number of these spaces above the earth is sharply limited by international law to prevent interference between satellites, but they can be reserved at no cost by nearly any nation on an essentially first-come, first-served basis.
Before Tonga's move caught it by surprise, the 119-nation consortium that provides most international satellite service, known as Intelsat, pretty much thought it had a lock on the slots. 
Intelsat officials now contend that Tonga, with an economy based largely on fishing, coconuts and foreign aid, is merely a front for financial speculation by a slick American operator, Matt C. Nilson. Intelsat, of which the United States is a member, contends Mr. Nilson's goal is to make a quick profit by leasing the orbital slots to the highest bidders.
Intelsat is trying to persuade the international communications authorities to dismiss Tonga's ambitious claim, but experts say not much can be done unless the regulations themselves are changed. That cannot happen until the next scheduled meeting by the World Administrative Radio Conference, in 1992.
Tonga's venture into satellite communications began in 1987 when Mr. Nilson, who had been in the satellite business, persuaded King Taufa'ahau Tupou 4th to sponsor an ambitious satellite system over the Pacific.
A Government-sponsored company, Tongasat, was formed to join foreign partners to launch a fleet of satellites capable of reaching from the Middle East to Hawaii. Mr. Nilson is Tongsat's managing director and has a 20 percent stake in the venture.
Tongan officials concede that they can put up none of the money for the satellites they are proposing, and that Tongasat has only six employees. But the princess who is Tongasat's chairman seemed offended by accusations that the satellite positions are being hoarded to make a quick profit. ''Countries in Asia and the Pacific region have a need for better communications,'' said the princess, Salote Pilolevu Tuita. ''They make it sound as if we are only interested in financial gain.''
 
Sounds Like Fiction
In some ways, the dispute is reminiscent of ''The Mouse That Roared,'' a novel about a tiny country that declares war on the United States in hopes of obtaining foreign aid. But it highlights the growing clash of interests created by the soaring demand for global telecommunications, in particular between North America and the Pacific Rim nations.
The Federal Communications Commission estimates that the market for telecommunications traffic -including telephone, data and television signals - between the United States and Asia totaled $2.5 billion in 1989 and is growing 21 percent a year. Traffic within the Pacific region is growing nearly 40 percent a year. As demand for satellite capacity continues to swell, the scarcity of slots is becoming more acute and the conflicts among business and government enterprises more frequent.
Until now, the kingdom of Tonga, near the Samoan Islands and whose 100,000 citizens could all find seats at the Rose Bowl, has rarely attracted notice on the world stage. Tonga's tallest building is four stories, and its estimated gross national product of $70 million falls far short of the sales of any Fortune 500 company. Foreign aid, mostly from Australia and New Zealand, accounts for much of the national budget.
 
Out of Retirement
The driving force behind Tonga's emergence as a power in the satellite market has clearly been Mr. Nilson, the 51-year-old American who heads the Nilson Research Corporation, a telecommunications consulting firm with offices in Tonga, San Diego and Manila. He said he conceived of the venture after he retired and moved to Tonga, where he lived for two years before returning to the United States.
Mr. Nilson, who had worked for Intelsat in several jobs during the 1970's, is well known within the satellite industry. In the early 1980's, he founded a Washington company, Advanced Business Communications Inc., which aspired to develop a private domestic satellite system in the United States.
But by challenging Comsat, the Communications Satellite Corporation, which Congress created to control American satellite service, Mr. Nilson made some enemies in the industry. Still, he succeeded in obtaining licenses for orbital slots over the United States and enlisted the Hughes Aircraft Company to build and launch satellites to rival Comsat's. Hughes backed out before any satellite was launched because of concerns about an overcrowded satellite market.
 
Limitations in the Market
''It became obvious at that time the market could not have supported an additional satellite system,'' Mr. Nilson said.
Control over orbital slots determines who has the right to launch satellites serving a particular region. These satellites orbit 22,300 miles above the earth at the same speed as the earth's rotation, and are called geostationary because they appear to hover over one location. All geostationary satellites are positioned along the equator.
Under international law, satellites using the same spectrum of frequencies can be no closer than 2 degrees in longitude, limiting the total number of worldwide slots to 180. But international law also provides that any government has the right to reserve any unused slots for satellites it plans to launch, simply by registering its intention with an organization in Geneva called the International Frequency Registration Board.
Orbital slots are allocated on request to either individual sovern nations or to Intelsat on behalf of the governments that are its members.
Because Intelsat did not think it had much competition for the orbital slots, it did not rush to reserve the 16 unclaimed positions most economically feasible for a trans-Pacific communications network that Tonga now claims. And because three positions overlap, Tonga as a practical matter can use 13 for actual satellites. Besides the 16, Tonga and Britain have competing claim on two slots.
As described by Mr. Nilson, those slots would be filled by a fleet of high-powered satellites capable of sending signals strong enough to be received by small antennas in remote villages and desolate islands. To allow more optimum spacing in orbit, he said fewer than 13 satellites might be launched, to keep the strong signals from overlapping. Mr. Nilson said the service would bring communications to places that cannot be served by land-based phone lines and would be much less costly than services relying on large, expensive ground stations.
Mr. Nilson and Tongan officials say they think the system could be started for $500 million, but they concede that they have virtually none of the money themselves.
No one seemed to pay attention to Tongasat until earlier this year, when it abruptly announced that it held the rights to all remaining Pacific slots and that it was seeking investors.
 
The Last Slots Available
''Tonga currently possesses all C-band positions that were still available as of early 1988 over the Pacific,'' the company proclaimed in a news release. ''Since most of Tonga's slots are the last that can illuminate all of East Asia and still reach the U.S.A., they are attractive to investor groups.''
The statement did not mention a price, but Mr. Nilson said in a recent interview that $2 million a year for each slot might be reasonable. That would be $26 million annually for all 13 positions. If Tonga retained about half of that amount after Mr. Nilson and others got their cuts, it would still increase the Government's budget by about 20 percent.
Mr. Nilson also contended that a tracking and data relay satellite for the United States Government was encroaching on Tonga's territory. The American Government plans to let Intelsat use channels on the disputed satellite to carry some Pacific traffic. But Mr. Nilson informed the National Aeronautics and Space Administration that such a use could interfere with one of Tonga's proposed satellites. Although he did not explicitly demand a payment, he acknowledged last week that ''we should at least have some compensation if we're going to lose'' the satellite position.
Tiny Tonga has thus become a top-level concern of Intelsat, which provides most trans-Pacific satellite service.
In June, Intelsat's director general, Dean Burch, harshly denounced Tonga's plans as an abuse of international regulations that ''would set a dangerous precedent if not effectively challenged.''
Mr. Burch charged that the ''extremely large number of orbital slots involved is greatly in excess'' of Tonga's needs and that the country's real motivation was to sell them to the highest bidder.
 
Charge Adamantly Denied
Mr. Nilson adamantly denied that charge, although he acknowledged that Tonga was ready to lease its slots while the nation continued work on the system. Mr. Nilson insisted, however, that Tonga did indeed plan to sponsor the proposed system.
Intelsat is trying to persuade the International Telecommunications Union and the International Frequency Registration Board to deny recognition to Tongasat's claims to slots. Satellite experts said, however, that Tonga's actions thus far were consistent with international regulations.
''Clearly, Tongasat is a cleverly designed scheme to take advantage of loopholes in the law to benefit the Government of Tonga and the principals of Tongasat,'' said Scott Chase, editor of Via Satellite, a trade magazine based in Potomac, Md.
But Mr. Chase added that the scarcity of orbital positions might increasingly dictate that positions be allocated on the basis of price in a market-like fashion. ''Selling slots may be the wave of the future,'' he said. ''If so, Tongasat is the pioneer in financial speculation for orbital slots.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A bid by Tonga, a Pacific island nation, for control of orbital satellite communications slots is being led by Matt C. Nilson, second from right, an American entrepreneur. With him were Bryn Harris, left, head of the Bank of Tonga; Kelepi Tupou, right, secretary of the Government-sponsored Tongasat Corporation, which is directing the bid, and Princess Salote Pilolevu Tuita of Tonga, chairman of Tongasat. (Nilson Research Corp.) (pg. A1); King Taufa'ahau Tupou 4th of Tonga was persuaded in 1987 to sponsor an ambitious satellite system over the Pacific. (Tongasat) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: I (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); TONGA (97%); ASIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); 

COMPANY: INTELSAT SA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TONGA

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (94%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: NILSON, MATT C; ANDREWS, EDMUND L MATT C NILSON (86%); 



822 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2057 words

HEADLINE: Efforts to Reshape Teaching Focus on Finding New Talent

SERIES: TOMORROW'S TEACHERS: SECOND OF THREE ARTICLES.

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

DATELINE: COLLEGE PARK, Md.

 BODY:
To become a teacher, John Davis gave up his job as a treasurer for the teamsters' union and took a pay cut of $10,000 a year.
''So many children grow up now without any male role model,'' said Mr. Davis, who is 35 years old. ''I'm starting out teaching with what I started out with eight years ago at the union. But if you're really not enjoying what you're doing, you can't pay for that.''
Mr. Davis is one of a small but growing number of people who are switching to teaching in mid-career. He was able to make that change because of an intensive master's degree program at the University of Maryland in one of dozens of innovative approaches across the country aimed at attracting new talent to teaching and helping such people qualify faster for teaching jobs. 
Acute shortages of minority teachers, of teachers who excel academically and of those with math and science expertise continue in the nation's schools, and teaching's low status as a profession is hobbling efforts to recruit and retain the best teachers.
In response, the struggle to attract and train potential teachers has taken new turns. On one track, programs across the country are luring people with strong math and science backgrounds into teaching.
On another track, to increase the number of minority teachers, educators are reaching into high schools to promote teaching as a career path for academically talented black and Hispanic students. And historically black colleges are revamping their teacher education programs to help their graduates meet tougher state standards for teacher entry.
Lastly, to make sure America's schools are attractive to the very kinds of people they need, a nationwide effort to reshape schools and improve teachers' working conditions is under way.
A Central Issue: How Much Training Beaming and clutching balloons, Mr. Davis and his fellow graduates at the University of Maryland marched before their families this summer as they received their master's degrees in education. Although the university's program is not aimed specifically at math and science teachers, many of its graduates do have strong math and science backgrounds.
Brenda Stamps, 31, majored in biology and chemistry in college and went on to work in scientific laboratories. Sarah Nobis Baden, 26, put her economics degree to work with the General Accounting Office, analyzing the effects of the Clean Air Act.
Both had good jobs, but found them unsatisfying. ''One of the reasons I joined the G.A.O. was to serve the public,'' Mrs. Baden said. ''But it takes about a year for the reports to get out, and I found more immediate rewards in teaching.''
Spurred by their own idealism, publicity about an education crisis and the hope that ongoing changes are improving teachers' lot, others like Mrs. Baden are signing on. Reaching New Teachers, a nationwide recruitment campaign, receives more than 600 calls a day on its toll-free number. The Association of American Colleges for Teacher Education reports a 200 percent rise in enrollments of students who already have college degrees.
Dozens of other programs at the nation's universities offer new programs for a master's degree in math and science education; others retrain teachers for math and science education.
Most of these programs are designed as quicker alternatives to traditional teacher education courses. The programs vary widely in quality and include intensive master's programs as well as emergency certification programs that allow career-switchers or bright college graduates into the classroom after only a summer, or even a few days, of training.
At least 32 states have adopted alternative certification programs. Researchers have found that such programs attract more members of minorities and more people who are willing to teach in inner-city schools. And advocates say that career-switchers or people who could take higher-paying jobs will not be willing to invest the time and money for traditional teacher-training programs.
But Prof. Linda Darling-Hammond of Columbia University's Teachers College, among others, believes the programs with the scantest training undermine efforts to improve the status and professionalism of teaching by suggesting that practically anyone can walk into a classroom and start teaching. Her research showed that many graduates of such programs were not prepared for the demands of teaching.
The only solution, she said, is to find money for better training.
C. Emily Feistritzer, director of the National Center for Education Information, sees another pitfall: Many school administrators are reluctant to hire career-switchers, even if they are better qualified. Although some estimates are higher, her research indicates that 12,000 of one million teachers hired in the last five years came from such certification programs.
''I think there's a lot of anecdotal evidence that many of the brightest people are being turned away from teaching,'' she said. ''They cost more, and to some school officials, they're a threat. I've had superintendents tell me, 'I don't want those people in my school.' ''
Minority Teachers: A Daunting Task Of all the efforts to recruit new teachers nationwide, few are more intensive, or more daunting, than the search for talented minority teachers.
Aspiring teachers like Sondra Kendricks, a 25-year-old education major at Illinois State University, are all too scarce. One of the few blacks in her class, Ms. Kendricks is a single mother who intends to teach in Chicago.
''With the birth of my son, I became worried about what would happen to young boys,'' she said. ''I feel like I owe a debt.''
At least one-third of the nation's schoolchildren will be members of minorities by the end of this decade, but only about 10 percent of the nation's teachers are black, Asian or Hispanic. The number of aspiring teachers who are members of minorities is even smaller, about 8 percent.
High failure rates for some minority children, especially black males, have convinced many educators that students need to see examples of successful minority teachers and that some students may be more effectively motivated by people with backgrounds similar to their own. Experts in minority recruitment, like Barbara Hatton of the Ford Foundation, argue that more minority teachers are also necessary to demonstrate to white children that members of minorities can hold positions of authority.
A combination of poverty, high school failure rates and cutbacks in Federal student loans means that fewer minority members have the college degree necessary to become a teacher, said Nathaniel Jackson of the Southern Education Foundation, which administers several minority teacher recruitment programs.
Even more alarming, the nationwide move to raise standards for teachers has disqualified many minority members who aspire to be teachers. A study in 19 states found that the average pass rate for the National Teachers Examination, one of the most widely used entry tests, was 15 percent to 50 percent for blacks. The rate for whites ranged from 71 percent to 96 percent.
''Many of our students come with a deficit in basic skills,'' said Burnett Joiner, executive academic dean and dean of the college of education at Grambling State University in Louisiana. ''Many have difficulty reading, writing, in math and English. Many of our students have not been socialized into working hard.''
When Mr. Joiner arrived at Grambling State in 1980, only 5 percent of its students were able to pass the National Teachers Examination. Part of the reason, he and others said, is that the test is culturally biased and does not address teaching skills.
In 1992, the Educational Testing Service, which writes the exam, will offer a redesigned version that addresses these complaints. Carol Dwyer, who has overseen the planned changes, said that the new, three-stage test would be fairer because it would include observations of teachers' performance in the classrooms as well as results from testing basic skills and knowledge of subject matter.
After analyzing his students' test results, Mr. Joiner revamped the entire teacher education program at Grambling, imposing tough general education requirements, designing remedial courses in basic skills and including courses that covered the subjects students would see on the test.
Now 85 percent of the students pass. But there is a cost. Grambling State now graduates only half as many teacher education students.
New Places to Look, New Ways to Train To increase the number of minority teachers, educators and foundations are sponsoring programs that help minority children succeed in school, and are looking for prospective minority teachers in new places, including among retiring soldiers and teaching assistants in public schools.
Vicki Rodgers-Tamakloe spent 17 years climbing the ranks at a child care center before becoming a teacher's aide in the Montgomery County schools in Maryland. Thanks to a new program jointly sponsored by the schools and the University of Maryland at College Park, Mrs. Rodgers-Tamakloe, who is 36, could work at night and during the summers toward a master's degree in education, while continuing in her job.
Other programs reach out to the large pool of teaching assistants with degrees from two-year community colleges.
Louisiana has a four-year commitment to encourage minority teachers, beginning with a future teachers club in middle school, Mr. Jackson said. If students do well in the club, they may enter a paid teaching internship program and then move on to summer courses at Xavier or Tulane Universities. The best are offered scholarships at Grambling or other colleges.
For all the encouraging programs under way, there is a final obstacle: Minority members now have broader career choices. In 1985, Professor Darling-Hammond said, 8,800 minority students who earned college degrees in the previous year entered teaching, but 24,000 went to law or medical schools, and 30,000 were in other professional degree programs.
Trend in Schools: Reshaping Teaching The most ambitious efforts to find and keep good teachers center on reshaping the profession.
As long as teachers have no voice in shaping the rules that bind them and no chance to move up without leaving the classroom, experts say, many of the brightest people will continue to shun teaching.
That is one driving force behind the school restructuring movement that is under way across the country. In Kentucky, New York, Florida and elsewhere, the chance to work with principals and parents to improve schools is being offered to teachers.
In some schools in Miami, New York City and Rochester, for example, teachers join management teams that run schools, choose textbooks, decide discipline policy and set budgets. Kentucky is preparing to repeal all its current education regulations. Instead, it will set learning goals and allow school management teams to plan on how to achieve them.
A new nationwide poll of teachers released Monday by the National Center for Education Information showed that teachers overwhelmingly approve changes that would give them more voice in running schools.
Teachers unions and school districts across the country are also cooperating on programs that will allow teachers to earn more money and take more responsibility as they grow more experienced.
In the Ohio cities of Toledo and Cincinnati, for example, the American Federation of Teachers and local school districts have established ''career ladder'' programs, allowing those who demonstrate exceptional teaching ability to become master teachers.
Master teachers earn more and might assume a range of responsibilities. At least 29 states are trying career ladder programs or merit pay to reward and retain excellent teachers.
While it is still too early to judge the restructuring efforts, they are clearly inspiring many of tomorrow's teachers and attracting more and better-qualified candidates into teaching. Sarah Nobis Baden, the former Government economist, said she hoped to avoid burnout by becoming a master teacher. And Brenda Stamps, who left laboratory work for teaching, said she is confident about her choice.
''In all the time I've been out working,'' she said, ''finally I am where I need to be.''
 
NEXT: New ways to train teachers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The University of Maryland offers an intensive master's-degree program that enables people to switch to teaching in mid-career. Sarah Nobis Baden, left, and a classmate, Rose Jackson, second from left, at graduation ceremonies last month. With them were Ms. Jackson's daughter, right, and sister. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (83%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SHORTAGES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MATHEMATICS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MEN (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); 



823 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Peacekeeping in a New Era: The Superpowers Act in Harmony

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
The new spirit of unanimity at the United Nations reflects an emerging partnership between the two superpowers at the end of the cold war era. But it also affirms a basic principle of international relations: collective action works when national interests coincide.
 
Sweeping Security
Council resolutions passed since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait have quickly turned the United Nations into a vehicle that may prevent war from breaking out on the Arabian Peninsula.
But unity is motivated less by a willingness of the five permanent members of the Security Council to relinquish power than by the realization in an international diplomatic environment conditioned by American-Soviet agreement on the need for stability, a global approach is a less costly and more efficient way to manage conflict. 
 
'Convergent Interests'
''We've had some pretty egregious violations of international law in the past, but the great powers had different interests, and in those conditions this U.N. system cannot work,'' said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat and author of a new book on international law. ''Now the major powers have convergent interests and the mechanism of the U.N. is there waiting to be used.''
President Bush made clear today that the United Nations, however useful when it serves American interests, has its limits and that he has no intention of surrendering any authority to Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar when the United Nations leader begins a mission to the Middle East on Thursday.
But Mr. Bush has no cause for worry. Mr. Perez de Cuellar scrupulously avoids making any move that goes beyond the explicit instructions of the Security Council, to such an extent that he has often been criticized for inaction at times of crisis.
 
Taking the Risks
The peace mission also allows Mr. Bush to sound warlike and uncompromising while Mr. Perez de Cuellar risks nothing except the loss of face by trying to make peace abroad. ''One of the main purposes of the Secretary General is to take some of the risks that the leaders of nation states won't or can't,'' said Charles William Maynes, editor of Foreign Policy magazine and former Assistanct Secretary of State for International Organziaitons.
As for the Security Council resolutions, particularly one adopted over the weekend approving the use of force in the blockade against Iraq, they give a desirable cover of international legitimacy to an American-driven policy.
The Bush strategy contrasts with the Reagan policy. The Bush Administration is legitimizing the American response to Iraqi aggression through the United Nations. Three years ago, the Reagan Administration rejected a Soviet proposal to jointly reflag Kuwaiti tankers to protect them against Iranian attack during the Iran-Iraq war.
Even longtime diplomats suspicious of American intentions give the Bush Administration high marks for its skill and doggedness in pushing through the resolution over the weekend. The breakthrough was attributed in large part to conversations between Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union and in messages between Washington and Beijing.
 
'Emergence of a New Order'
In an interview with Cable News Network on Saturday, Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, explained the diplomatic successes as resulting perhaps from ''the emergence of a new order.''
''That's a strong term, but what we're seeing is the United Nations beginning to operate as it was foreseen to operate when it was established in 1945-1946,'' he said.
But it is important to remember that the ''new order'' suits the Soviets. For the past two years, the Kremlin has become the most forceful advocate for a dynamic United Nations. Moscow's enthusiam for the world organization stems directly from a feeling that it can cut military spending and develop its own economy only in a more peaceful world.
''For the Soviets today, the U.N. is emerging not as a vehicle of retreat but as a less costly and more legitimate way to influence events,'' wrote Thomas G. Weiss of Brown University and Meryl A. Kessler of Harvard University, in a recent article on Soviet policy and the United Nations.
 
A Role in the Middle East
The Soviet decision to embrace the resolution over the weekend after days of foot-dragging also reflects Moscow's desire to take part in decision-making in the Middle East, where Moscow has been denied a role in the past.
''Everybody knew that the Americans would have intercepted the ships anyway and the Soviets would be without any influence in the crisis,'' said one Western diplomat familiar with the negotiations. ''The United Nations was the only way for Soviets to have a role.''
More and more, the interests of the superpowers have converged, and more and more the United Nations is being used to resolve regional disputes. The United Nations gave the Soviet Union a face-saving way out of Afghanistan, monitored elections in Nicaragua and has begun to mediate in the war in El Salvador.
In unguarded moments, however, some Administration officials and Western diplomats have suggested that the response of the Security Council to the crisis in the Persian Gulf may be a matter of degree as much as principle. The annexation of Kuwait is seen not just a regional conflict, but as a threat to global order and the world supply of oil, and these officials acknowledge that the international response would never have been so strong if Iraq had moved only to seize the oil fields just over the Kuwaiti border.
When Iraq invaded Iran a decade ago and seized Iran's oil-producing Khuzistan province, for example, the Security Council passed a lukewarm resolution that did not even call for Iraq to return to internationally recognized borders. There was little sympathy worldwide for Iran, which was holding American hostages at the time. In the 1980's, the Security Council reacted slowly and did not impose sanctions against Iraq when it used chemical weapons against Iranian soldiers and later against its own civilians.
Finally, in the Falkland conflict of 1982, there was a certain feeling in the Security Council that Argentina and Britain had to fight it out among themselves, despite a personal mediation effort by Mr. Perez de Cuellar.
''The Falklands didn't engage the same kind of outrage in the world,'' said one Adminsitration official. ''It was an obscure little piece of island off in the middle of nowhere. There's no way you can just sit back and let the locals fight it out in the Persian Gulf the way you could in the Falklands.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pilots at a British air force base in Brugge, West Germany, talking to a mechanic before taking off to join the multinational force in the gulf. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; IRAQ; PERSIAN GULF; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); WRITERS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



824 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF: JORDAN HOPES U.N. LEADER CUTS TENSION;
In Egypt, Some Skepticism

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Egypt is eager for a breakthrough but skeptical that King Hussein will find a formula that will persuade Iraq to move toward an early withdrawal of its troops from Kuwait, diplomats here said today.
Egypt has played a leading role in Arab diplomacy from the beginning of the crisis, and its top officials, led by President Hosni Mubarak, have maintained a hectic pace of consultations with other Arab nations in an effort to avoid what Mr. Mubarak said last week would be ''a vicious war.'' 
Diplomats say that for now the Egyptians will continue to emphasize an approach of tightened economic and other pressures on Iraq, in the belief that any hint of concessions may fortify Baghdad in its repeated vow to hold on to Kuwait.
As King Hussein continued his peace mission, Mr. Mubarak sent his foreign minister, Ahmed Esmat Abdel Maguid, to Moscow on Sunday for talks with Soviet leaders.
Diplomats said this signaled Egypt's belief that the best hope for persuading President Hussein to withdraw from Kuwait was pressure from the United States and the Soviet Union, combined with a continued show of resolve by the Arab nations that voted at a summit meeting here on Aug. 10 to condemn Iraq.
Diplomats say Egypt will be wary of any diplomatic initiative that seeks to lure Baghdad into withdrawing from Kuwait by offering incentives, like the territorial concessions, loan write-offs and other payments demanded by President Hussein before the invasion.
The diplomats said Egyptian officials monitoring the latest statements by President Hussein and other top Iraqi officials had sensed that the Iraqi leader might be ''casting about'' for a way to extricate himself from the crisis, and that signaling an offer of concessions might stiffen his resolve just as his isolation was beginning to sink in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); JORDAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (74%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; PEREZ DE CUELLAR, JAVIER (SEC GEN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); HOSNI MUBARAK (79%); 



825 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Jordan Hopes U.N. Leader Cuts Tension

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Jordanian officials and others expressed hope today that Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar of the United Nations could create a breathing space in the Persian Gulf crisis where diplomacy might, at least for now, take center stage.
Tajer Maseri, a former Jordanian Foreign Minister and now head of the foreign affairs committee in Parliament, said the crisis had reached a turning point.
''For 10 days you had the building of the war machine,'' he said this morning. ''For a couple of days it was war and talk. Now we're really moving into the diplomatic thing.'' 
A Western diplomat said, ''You get the impression that the crisis is not escalating at this moment.''
 
'A Little Bit of Hope'
An Iraqi diplomat, speaking in a telephone interview from London, said the meeting scheduled for Thursday in Amman between Mr. Perez de Cuellar and Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq suggested ''a little bit of hope'' that war might be avoided.
''There is a small light in the matter,'' the Iraqi diplomat said. ''Let's hope the light will become bigger.''
Mr. Perez de Cuellar is respected in Iraq for having played an important role in reaching a cease-fire in the war with Iran in 1988. Iraq and Jordan are taking his visit here as a serious effort and not just as an instance in which a senior diplomat goes through what might be regarded as expected motions.
Iraq and Jordan are also hoping that the Secretary General will arrive with some sign of leeway in Washington's stand, although Washington has said this is not the case.
''If Perez de Cuellar has any mandate from the United States, overtly or covertly, I think we're on the right track,'' a Jordanian official said. ''This could be a way out for all parties, face saving and practical.''
 
Choice of Meeting Site
Diplomats and Jordanian officials speculated that Mr. Perez de Cuellar chose a site outside Iraq for the meeting because he wanted to avoid any hint of leaning toward one side. They note that despite a long friendship with Iraq, Jordan has tried to steer a neutral course in this crisis and it is situated just next door to Iraq, should the Secretary General decide to open talks directly with President Saddam Hussein.
King Hussein of Jordan, who has been insisting that the Arab leaders themselves can find a diplomatic solution, was in Libya today and planned to travel to Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco and Mauritania before going to Europe and then to Baghdad.
Some diplomats were skeptical of the effectiveness of the King's travels. Aides said he would not be in Jordan to welcome Mr. Perez de Cuellar and Mr. Aziz.
Some diplomats said the King might find it convenient to be away when foreign critics were continuing to raise questions about Jordan's reluctance to apply the United Nations economic sanctions.
While Jordan is indeed anxious about the possibility of war, all indications are that the King's popularity remains high. In a country that overwhelmingly supports President Hussein, posters with twin color portraits of the Iraqi leader and King Hussein have begun appearing in shop windows and at pro-Iraq demonstrations.
 
Seeking a Consensus
Jordanians close to the Government said the goal of the King's trip is to develop a consensus, urging withdrawal from Kuwait, among Arab countries that have appeared more understanding than others of Iraq's position. Of the countries he is visiting, only Morocco has strongly condemned Iraq.
''He wants to be able to go to Saddam and say, 'Look, this is what the countries think, let's find a solution,' '' a member of Parliament said. A Western diplomat said the King would probably try to broaden the appeal for withdrawal with ammunition gathered on his swing through Europe.
President Hussein has been admamant on staying in Kuwait. But the King and other Jordanians say they believe he is more flexible than he indicates in public. They say they believe that President Hussein was willing to withdraw from Kuwait shortly after his troops invaded but stiffened his position in response to the condemnation from a majority of leaders in the Arab League.
At the time, United States intelligence indicated that Iraqi troops were massing on the Saudi border in what was thought to be preparation for an attack. The Jordanians said then, as they do now, that they believe President Hussein has never intended to invade Saudi Arabia.
The United States, Britain and France say Iraq's departure from Kuwait is mandatory for any direct negotiations.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar has not spelled out what he plans to discuss with Mr. Aziz.
 
Americans Less Optimistic
American diplomats here would not discuss Mr. Perez de Cuellar's visit on the record, but, reflecting Washington's official position, they did not appear to share the optimism of many others here.
The United States has made clear that as it strengthens an already awesome combat force in Saudi Arabia each day, its strategy is to try to bring President Hussein to his knees with the economic blockade. It cannot reject the possibility of talks with Iraq out of hand, diplomats said, but is unlikely to encourage negotiations until it believes that concessions are more predictable.

GRAPHIC: Photo: King Hussein of Jordan being greeted yesterday in Tunis by President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. The King is traveling to Arab countries that have appeared to be more sympathetic than others to Iraq's position, in order to find a consensus regarding a withdrawal from Kuwait. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (60%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA; PERSIAN GULF; EGYPT

SUBJECT: IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); 

PERSON: ;HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); 



826 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Amid Jitters, Luminaries Hunt for Dialogue

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OSLO, Aug. 27

 BODY:
If you don't think it's tough holding a peace conference on ''resolving conflict through dialogue and democracy'' in the middle of war jitters, then just listen to this.
''Dialogue alone is not going to get Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait,'' said Conor Cruise O'Brien, the Irish diplomat, scholar and writer, giving one of the conference's keynote speeches, called ''The Anatomy of Hate.''
''Neither dialogue nor democracy are necessarily the answer to hatred or conflict,'' former President Jimmy Carter told the 50 assembled luminaries this morning, as they convened at the invitation of the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity and the Norwegian Nobel Committee.
Mr. Carter asserted that Western democracies had often personalized hatred in the past, and were doing it again now, with President Hussein of Iraq joining the list of enemies ''stripped of any redeeming human characteristics.'' 
After Mr. Carter left Oslo, Mr. Wiesel, a survivor of the Holocaust who established his foundation in New York City after winning the Nobel Peace Prize from the Norwegian Committee in 1986, said he had toyed with the idea of asking the former President to undertake a Middle East peace mission.
That seemed unlikely today, with foreign troops reinforcing Saudi Arabia in the crisis caused by President Hussein's invasion of Kuwait.
Even Mr. Wiesel, who hoped the conference would adopt a declaration condemning hatred before the meeting ends on Wednesday, said privately that he also wished it could declare Mr. Hussein a war criminal who should be tried by an international tribunal.
The West German writer Gunter Grass offered his own list of potential war criminals - the German companies that he said had shipped arms to Iraq that would enable it to fire long-range rockets delivering poison gas and possibly even nuclear warheads to targets in Israel. Uncontrolled lust for profits, not hate, was the motivating force here, he said.
At a news conference outside the hotel ballroom where hate was being discussed, Nelson Mandela, visiting deputy leader of the African National Congress, was asked today why he had not talked with Chief Mangosuthu Gatsha Buthelezi of the Inkatha movement about the violence that has killed more than 500 people in clashes between the two groups this month.
''If Mr. Buthelezi wants to talk to me, I am here,'' said Mr. Mandela, who later conferred with Norwegian officials and then was to go on to Algeria. He spent much of the afternoon, at Mr. Wiesel's request, clarifying his position on the controversial 1975 resolution of the United Nations General Assembly equating Zionism and racism, gradually making it tougher as he went along, settling on this:
''If Zionism means the right of the Jewish state to retain territories which they have conquered from others, to refuse to deal with the acknowledged leaders of the Palestinians, in particular with the P.L.O.; if the Jewish state has decided not to allow the Arabs in the conquered territories to exercise the right of self determination; if protest demonstrations by the youth of the Arabs are met with brutal oppression, then of course we condemn Zionism in the strongest terms.''
''But if Zionism, as I believe, means the struggle by the Jewish people for their national home, for their own state within secure borders,'' he said, ''then Zionism is a very commendable movement which we all would like to support.''
Ehud Olmert, the Israeli Minister of Health, said, ''I expected to hear an unequivocal repudiation.'' He added that among the things Israel and Zionism were up against was leaders like President Hussein, who had openly threatened to use poison gas to kill Jews.
Some participants thought the Persian Gulf crisis had deprived the conference of its real point. Yelena Bonner, widow of the Soviet Nobel Peace Prize winner and human rights champion Andrei D. Sakharov, seemed more concerned about racism, anti-Semitism, civil strife and economic chaos in her own country. ''A lot of the talk here is just meaningless platitudes,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); NORWAY (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WIESEL, ELIE, FOUNDATION FOR HUMANITY; NORWEGIAN NOBEL COMMITTEE ELIE WIESEL FOUNDATION FOR HUMANITY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); WAR CRIMES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GENOCIDE (72%); HOLOCAUST (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); RACE & RACISM (60%); 

PERSON: CARTER, JIMMY; WHITNEY, CRAIG R JIMMY CARTER (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 



827 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Auto Workers Expected to Make G.M. a 'Negotiation Target'

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 27

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers is expected to name the General Motors Corporation on Tuesday as its ''negotiation target'' in talks covering half a million industry workers in the United States, just two weeks after the No. 1 auto maker granted concessions to strikers in Flint, Mich.
The naming of a target company, sometimes referred to as a ''strike target,'' sets the stage for intensive bargaining that would begin this week, leading to the Sept. 14 expiration date on the current three-year contract between the union and Big Three auto makers, G.M., the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation.
If an agreement is not reached by Sept. 14, the union may call a strike at its designated target or continue bargaining.
The union, while declining to comment on reports that it has already selected G.M., said it would announce the target here Tuesday morning. In the last week G.M., Ford and Chrysler have each submitted tentative contract proposals to union bargainers. Each company acknowledges that it wishes to be the union's negotiating target so it can shape what typically becomes the model contract for the industry. 
 
Theory About the Target
Labor experts and union members close to bargaining talks say G.M. has been selected because it recently demonstrated in the Flint strike and by its contract proposal a surprisingly conciliatory attitude toward improving relations with blue-collar workers.
G.M. settled the Flint strike by granting workers there a job security guarantee and a reprieve from a previously announced layoff. The workers responded with an overwhelming vote to end the strike.
By making G.M. the target, the union may be seizing the opportunity of a harmonious period to significantly improve industrywide job security provisions, its highest priority, for the greatest number of workers. G.M. employs about 300,000 hourly workers. The company's relations with hourly workers historically have been the most acrimonious in the industry.
Specifically, G.M. is trying to find a way in the next labor contract to assure hourly workers guaranteed employment until they have 30 years of service, while retaining the flexibility to shut down unneeded production lines.
 
Factors in G.M. Talks
Richard Block, professor of labor relations at Michigan State University, said the aging of G.M.'s work force has made it economically feasible for the company to consider a blanket guarantee of job security, which means either providing work or paying workers who are laid-off a salary close to what they would earn on the job.
In return, Mr. Block said, G.M. may seek contract provisions that give it broad freedom to transfer workers to plants where they are needed.
''All the folks they hired in the 1960's are going to be retired in the next few years,'' said Mr. Block. ''What G.M. wants is the ability to close plants if it has to without all the political pressure and pressure from the union. If G.M. promises to keep everyone on the payroll, it may be able to do that.''
As factors strongly influencing G.M. to be more conciliatory than in the past, Mr. Block also cited the promotion of Robert Stempel as company chairman earlier this year, and G.M.'s recent gains in the domestic market. Mr. Block presumes that Mr. Stempel will want to start his post on amicable terms with the union.
''I think G.M. wants to settle the job security issue for the years to come,'' Mr. Block said. ''I know I would want to settle it if I were in Stempel's shoes.''
The current contract for the Big Three provides unemployment benefits that cover laid-off workers, depending on seniority and the reasons for layoff, for a period of several months or years; eventually, however, the benefits expire.
While the specifics of the G.M. proposal were not given, union sources who spoke on condition of anonymity said it provided for a salary rise in the first year, followed by two annual bonuses. They said G.M. is also proposing to reduce labor-related costs in parts and components factories, where workers are paid much more than in nonunion plants.
The union sources also said Chrysler's contract proposal had evoked anger and frustration among U.A.W. bargainers. Chrysler's proposal reportedly said that blanket medical insurance coverage would be replaced by health maintenance organizations and other coverage. The Big Three have targeted medical costs as a major competitive disadvantage with Japanese auto makers.
The union has said that it would help to reduce medical costs, but that it considers comprehensive medical coverage non-negotiable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION; 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CONTRACTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); STRIKES (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P RICHARD BLOCK (80%); ROBERT STEMPEL (57%); 



828 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: This Embargo Can Work

 BODY:
Trade embargoes have often proved feeble instruments of coercion. Those who favor quick military action against Iraq argue that the present blockade won't work, or will take many months to bite. They may prove right. 
Yet this blockade is already unique in its worldwide support and breadth. Iraq is uniquely vulnerable. The Bush Administration continues daily to detect and plug holes. And victory may not require bringing the Iraqi economy to its knees.
Perhaps more than any comparable action this century, the embargo against Iraq can work, can break President Saddam Hussein's will - provided that those who demand instant military solutions are held at bay.
Other embargoes had fatal flaws. The League of Nations approved sanctions to punish Mussolini for invading Ethiopia, but then failed to deny oil to Italy. The United Nations embargoed oil shipments to Rhodesia, which obtained its supplies through South Africa instead. The siege of Iraq falls in a quite different category from these half-measures.
Oil and refined products account for 97 percent of Iraq's export earnings. But Baghdad cannot now sell a drop of oil. Its pipelines through Saudi Arabia and Turkey are blocked, and its tankers will now be denied passage through the gulf, if necessary by force. Thus Iraq's income has dwindled close to zero, and its financial assets abroad are frozen.
Even if Iraq could pay for any imports, its shipping routes are blocked and little is coming in by air, since many countries as part of the economic blockade have canceled flights to Iraq and denied it their airspace. The United States is making every effort to close all loopholes as soon as it learns of them. Land routes, including local trade with Jordan and Syria and smugglers' routes through Iran, are still open but probably provide a tiny fraction of Iraq's present needs.
Iraq does have some stockpiles of food, including three months' worth of rice and two months' wheat, and is expecting a good harvest. It's also true that the shared sacrifice of a siege often boosts morale, at least to start with. But home-grown food and hope will last only so far. The current sanctions have a substantial chance of forcing President Hussein to the belief that he cannot win.
It is also essential that Mr. Hussein continue to feel that he has no way around the embargo, especially no military alternative. That's why it's critical to continue the buildup of American and other forces in the Persian Gulf area. Its effects were demonstrated when U.S. officials disclosed yesterday that, in a policy reversal, he had instructed his merchant ships not to resist naval inspection.
The blockade still may prove unsuccessful, if Iraq can stretch out its stockpiles and develop local supplies - or if the will of the world community erodes. But there is little basis now for supposing either eventuality.
Iraq soon will find it painfully difficult to operate without imports. And for the embargo to achieve its purposes, it may not be necessary to bring Iraq's economy to a halt, let alone cause starvation in the streets of Baghdad. The pain for Iraq does not have to be total; it only has to be enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING ; MILITARY ACTION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (88%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SMUGGLING (71%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 



829 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Know How to Conserve Gasoline

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Americans use ''about 350 gallons of gasoline a person'' (in a year, presumably), we learn in the Aug. 12 Week in Review. According to your adjacent graph, estimated gasoline consumption for 1989 was 2.75 billion barrels. Multiplied by 42 gallons a barrel and divided by 247.1 million Americans (1990 World Almanac), that's 467 gallons a person.
The higher figure, probably more accurate, shows dramatically the shocking wastefulness of United States transportation, in contrast not only to countries you tabulate in the accompanying graphic, but in particular to Switzerland. There a system is in use so sensible and so fuel-economical that it is a priori almost ruled out of the American way of life.
The system's basis is the simple idea that, since both people and mail have to be moved from any one town to all the other towns in the same area, why not use the same vehicles for both? Do you commute to work or want to shop or visit? Go to your post office and take the postal bus, which has appropriate capacity and leaves on schedule. Behind the bus is a small trailer, which the driver has unloaded with mail for that office and reloads for later destinations. You and the others (and the mail) get there (the post office, of course) quickly and comfortably. Service for passengers and mail is frequent.
Obviously, the two countries differ. But there must be parts of this one where similar logistics are applicable. With so much at stake, and despite our bad habits, a trial seems warranted.
 
JEROME S. SCHAUL
 Caldwell, N.J., Aug. 13, 1990

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ALMANAC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SWITZERLAND

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: SCHAUL, JEROME B



830 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Risk in 'Boot Camp' Handling of Inmates

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Aug. 14 editorial in support of the ''boot camp'' approach for Rikers Island inmates fails to elaborate on its significant drawbacks. A ''bootcamp'' inmate is released without having received any additional education or having developed any additional employment skills. These programs simply release strong, healthy, unemployed young men into the community after only a brief jail term.
Particularly in light of the fact that the military has moved away from abusive or degrading training methods, using physically and verbally aggressive tactics in an effort to ''train'' inmates to act responsibly in the community is full of contradictions. In fact, the program runs the risk of turning out young men who are more aggressive and hostile than they would have been under routine imprisonment. Aggressive and hostile behavior is why many of these men are incarcerated.
While ''boot camp'' might not meet the needs of rehabilitation or community safety, it seems to meet the needs of political officials who can boast of ''doing something'' about crime.
 
HOWARD ABADINSKY
Professor of Criminal Justice
Saint Xavier College
 Chicago, Aug. 15, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: RIKERS ISLAND PRISON COMPLEX (NYC)

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: ABADINSKY, HOWARD (PROF)



831 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
Moscow Can Help

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: VENICE

 BODY:
The Security Council vote endorsing military enforcement of the U.N. blockade on Iraq was an impressive feat of diplomacy. It not only strengthened the international coalition against President Saddam Hussein; it blocked the temptation of American hawks to plunge into war.
The way the Persian Gulf crisis is resolved is going to have deep impact on the conduct of world affairs for a long time. Instead of confirming the U.S. as leading partner of all who seek a peaceful world order, going it alone could have reversed the remarkable consensus creating a new weapon for peace. 
Participants at a meeting here of Aspen Institute Italia on ''Economic Policies for a New Era: West-West and East-West'' reflected widespread relief that the era probably will not start with a bang after all. The meeting was planned long ago, but everybody came preoccupied with Iraq, oil and the questions they provoked.
A major gain so far has been the advance in American-Soviet diplomatic cooperation. Paul Nitze, former U.S. arms negotiator, has called for using the momentum to speed up more far-reaching arms reduction agreements. Mr. Nitze was once a prominent member of the ''Committee on the Present Danger,'' critical of most deals with the Soviets. Now he says President Bush ''should try radically to improve the bases for U.S.-Soviet collaboration.''
That is a turnaround. Mr. Nitze's careful proposals should weigh against the peculiar idea that the gulf threat makes further arms control and drastic restructuring of American forces undesirable. This crisis is in part a result of the global arms race, and should argue instead for a much sterner, broader attempt to block it everywhere.
The Soviets seem willing. Moscow is eager to reinforce the U.N. as the center for action. ''Everything that can be done through international or multilateral means should be done that way, and everything we do we should do together,'' said a Soviet diplomat, meaning the U.S. and the Soviets should always consult and can probably agree on measures to take.
There are some crucial contributions Moscow can make right now to advance resolution of the crisis. They are delicate and might have to be discreet, but they are a new test.
They concern intelligence. There are still several hundred Soviet military technicians in Iraq. They probably know where the hostages are. More important, Moscow knows all about Iraqi forces, air defenses, missiles, equipment, most of it Soviet-made. That information won't disarm Saddam Hussein, but it must gravely undermine his confidence if he has to suppose the U.S. has it.
Most important, no intelligence service anywhere has the K.G.B.'s intimate knowledge of Iraqi politics, especially rivalries and fault lines within the military and police establishments, some of them also organized by former Eastern European security services.
The one way to avoid war is for the Iraqis themselves to bring down their dictator. It is an illusion to think that outside pressure can induce President Hussein to pull out of Kuwait and let his forces be neutralized. That would be failure, and he knows his own people would not let him survive a show of impotence. He would more likely sacrifice them.
So the key is to convince others that their chance of survival is to get rid of him, or go down with him. He came to power through a coup. It is not an alien idea in Iraq. There is always hidden opposition, secret cliques in a tyranny. They need to be given a sense that they have more to gain than to lose in risking an overthrow.
The West, including Israel's vaunted Mossad, knows very little about the hidden intricacies of President Hussein's regime. Moscow can get word to the right people.
It is wrong to suppose the Soviets have an interest in prolonged crisis because of the windfall in high oil prices. It helps them, but not nearly enough to solve their foreign currency shortage, and their production has been declining sharply over the past two years. Prices will remain high anyway, and Western recession would hurt them too. What they need is improved production.
Before the gulf crisis, Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers of the Netherlands proposed technical aid to improve the Soviet oil industry as a way to help Eastern European democracies that will have to pay hard currency for these imports next year. West Europeans like the idea. The U.S. should support it. That would be yet another innovative example of cooperation for mutual and general benefit. It is a new era. The Soviets need help and they can contribute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GULF STATES (90%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; PERSIAN GULF; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS RACE (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



832 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Fight to House Homeless at Old Missile Base Turns Nasty

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAPPAN, N.Y.

 BODY:
Someone poured gasoline outside Sgt. Johnnie Peters's home at a defunct Nike missile site here last week in another expression of vandalism and hostility surrounding a plan to turn the old military base and its 36 bungalow-style homes into a project for the homeless.
The Pentagon has declared the site surplus in a cost-cutting move, and a nasty political and personal fight has ensued between town officials and an anti-poverty agency that is sponsoring the plan for the homeless.
Windows of the empty military housing have been spray-painted, mailboxes and trash cans have been stolen, and men driving past at night with bullhorns have shouted at the last five National Guard families on the base to get out.
Town officials theorize that neighbors who want to see the base bungalows razed and middle-income housing built may be behind the vandalism. 
 
Two Other Bases Affected
Similar plans for the homeless have been proposed at other surplus former Nike bases in Mahwah, N.J., and Westport, Conn. But tensions in Tappan are the highest. Until the 1960's, the three bases were part of a defensive missile ring around New York City.
The hostility here has stunned Sergeant Peters and four other Guard families left on a post that resembles a ghost town. Sergeant Peters, who has been in the New York National Guard for 15 years and whose husband has been hospitalized, says the community is indifferent to their plight.
''If the community cares about us, help us,'' she said. ''Military people can't function under conditions such as these. You don't have your freedom. Where's their heart? I need to know - where do I go? This is America. What do I do?'' The five Guard families here are not the only ones in the region on the verge of being made homeless for the sake of the civilian homeless.
 
Deadline in Mahwah
At the surplus base in Mahwah, seven New Jersey National Guard families face a Sept. 15 deadline to leave unless Bergen County, which has proposed housing the homeless at the site, the military and Mahwah officials can untangle themselves from a bureaucratic Catch 22.
Bergen County wants the seven Guard families to live with homeless people it would place at the base under a Federal law, the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, which gives the homeless top priority on surplus Federal property.
But the military, apparently concerned about image, will not permit its personnel to live in projects for the homeless created under the McKinney Act. However, they would be permitted in developments that included some homeless people but created under different auspices.
''Military people cannot qualify for housing under the McKinney Act,'' said one military official familiar with the Mahwah case. ''The only way the soldiers can stay is if the town buys the property for affordable housing.''
 
Decision in Westport
Westport resolved the status of its old Nike base in that fashion. After negotiations, a advocacy group for the homeless withdrew its McKinney Act application for the site, and Westport agreed to buy it and its 16 military homes, with 13 homes set aside for low-and moderate-income residents and the three others for the homeless.
The plan will not go into effect until 11 military families now on the site are transferred to new posts by 1993.
Bergen officials say they are considering withdrawing their McKinney Act applications. Mahwah would then be clear to buy or lease the land from the Pentagon for an affordable-housing project for elderly and young people squeezed out of the private market and for Guard families unable to find new housing.
Like the five families in limbo in Tappan, the seven in Mahwah say they cannot afford private rental housing on their military housing allowance, which ranges from $500 to $700, depending on rank.
 
'We Don't Understand'
''We're devastated,'' said Sgt. Robert Vuinovich, a New Jersey National Guard member for 18 years who has a wife and two teen-aged children. ''We work for the state and Federal Government, and we don't understand why they're putting us on the outside. But we've been fighting this since January, and we're going to go down fighting.''
After the Nike missiles were phased out, the 36 homes in Tappan and the 24 in Mahwah were filled by recruiting sergeants for the regular military branches and full-time National Guard sergeants who run the administrative and training affairs of Guard companies. All the regular military personnel at Tappan and Mahwah have been transferred to new duty stations and homes, and Guard personnel with nearby families have moved in with them.
The remaining 12 families are isolated now.
''My family is in South Carolina,'' Sergeant Peters said. ''That's 856 miles from here.''
 
Leasing of Site Approved
A New York National Guard housing official, Maj. Richard Vargus, said the five Tappan families had rejected military housing at either Fort Hamilton in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn or Fort Totten in Bayside, Queens, in hopes that the Town of Orangetown would obtain the site and allow them to remain.
But the fate of the old base is now embroiled in a bitter struggle between Orangetown officials and Joseph J. Lundy, head of a private anti-poverty group, the Rockland Community Action Council.
The council has a McKinney Act application, approved by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, to lease the site and put 36 homeless families there. Mr. Lundy expects that monthly state aid of about $3,200 for each of the 36 families would give the council, as the landlord, net annual income of about $1 million.
Mr. Lundy's plan drew stiff opposition in Orangetown, a community with a long tradition of self-reliance and abhorrence of Federal grants. Amid the opposition, Mr. Lundy offered a compromise on the 36 houses if the McKinney application was withdrawn: 17 houses would be preserved as affordable homes for town volunteer firemen and Civil Service workers, 14 would be set aside for Guard families, and five would be for the homeless.
 
Compromise Talks Collapse
Orangetown officials accepted that ratio but rejected Mr. Lundy's plan to keep control of the land and his refusal to restrict the five houses for the homeless to local residents.
Compromise talks have collapsed. The Rockland County Department of Social Services has withdrawn its support of the council's McKinney application, citing concern about creation of a ''welfare ghetto'' and Mr. Lundy's $1 million income projection from a 36-unit project for the homeless.
''All he talks about is money and control,'' an Orangetown Councilman, Thomas J. Swift, said of Mr. Lundy.
Mr. Lundy said he now planned a project entirely for the homeless.
''I wanted a win-win situation for everybody,'' Mr. Lundy said. ''I got my nose bloodied. My training is as a businessman with a social conscience, and my job is making capitalism and the economic system work for the benefit of the poor.'

GRAPHIC: Photos: Plans to turn a defunct Nike missile site at Tappan, N.Y., into a project for the homeless may leave Sgt. Johnnie Peters without the home she has lived in for 14 years. She and four families are living on the former National Guard post. (pg. B1); The Tappan post resembles a ghost town today, and the families there say they cannot afford private rental housing on their military allowances. (Alan Zale for The New York Times); map of Orangetown, New York showing location of Missile Base. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (55%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (55%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (55%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US); ROCKLAND COMMUNITY ACTION COUNCIL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAPPAN (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; HOMELESS PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE HOMELESSNESS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VANDALISM (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CITIES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT



833 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Auto Racing;
CART Eliminates Detroit Race From 1991 Indy-Car Schedule

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO

 BODY:
The city of Detroit, which lost the Formula One auto race through its downtown streets in 1988, lost the race that replaced it for the last two years when Championship Auto Racing Teams voted this past weekend to drop the event from its 1991 Indy-car schedule.
The CART race, which was run this June for the second consecutive year, replaced the International Grand Prix that was run along public streets past the Detroit River and around the towering Renaissance Center. In both cases the races were dropped because the possibility of downtown development clashed with demands for track improvements and other long-term commitments that were made by the respective sanctioning bodies. 
CART was seeking a long-term contract with the race's organizers, said A. William Stokkan, CART's chairman and chief executive officer, so that it could present television networks with a firm schedule at least three years in advance when negotiating broadcast fees. But the organization could not reach an agreement with Detroit Renaissance, the nonprofit group that promotes development of downtown Detroit.
CART, the Indy-car sanctioning group, usually seeks three-year renewals with race promoters.
 
Rough Pavement
Another issue that came up after this year's race was the roughness of the pavement, which caused some drivers to suffer severe blisters on their hands. Some team owners also thought the rough track surface was causing too much damage to their cars, Stokkan said last night from Chicago.
But with the high cost of repaving the track and the uncertainty over whether the race would be run over the same roads, it became impractical for the race promoters to repave the course, Stokkan said.
Because the Detroit race course used public streets, any major downtown construction had the potential to disrupt the event. In November 1988, Formula One racing officials decided to cancel the grand prix there after seven years because Detroit Renaissance could not provide the property on which to build permanent garages.
 
No Previous Indications
Although the CART race was not a sellout either year, attendance was not considered disappointing by either side, and there were no previous indications that the race was in peril.
Robert E. McCabe, president of Detroit Renaissance, said he was surprised by CART's decision to drop the event. ''We were in negotiations with Mr. Stokkan as late as midweek last week,'' McCabe said yesterday.
Stokkan admitted that before the 1991 schedule was released yesterday, he was was unable to get to McCabe to tell him of the CART Board of Directors' decision, which was reached on Sunday before CART's race in Denver.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS711320 PROMOTERS OF PERFORMING ARTS, SPORTS & SIMILAR EVENTS WITHOUT FACILITIES (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: INDY RACING LEAGUE LLC (58%); CHAMPIONSHIP AUTO RACING TEAMS (95%); CHAMPIONSHIP AUTO RACING TEAMS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMPIONSHIP AUTO RACING TEAMS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH)

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE RACING AUTO RACING (98%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH A WILLIAM STOKKAN (92%); ROBERT E MCCABE (72%); 



834 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2677 words

HEADLINE: Alternatives to Oil Move From the Lab to the Road

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
IN the last 10 years, scientists and engineers have taken long strides toward the day when alternative energy sources can compete with oil from the Middle East, and some of the more promising alternatives are on the verge of practicality.
But a drastic cut in funds for energy research over the past decade has slowed progress in many areas. And even if the research effort is accelerated now, experts say, the energy system that has grown up around petroleum is so vast, so pervasive and so entrenched that it will be years and in most cases decades before the alternatives replace oil on a large scale.
It is clear, say the experts, that the biggest and most important gains in the struggle to wean the country from petroleum are to be made in transportation, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of all oil consumed in the United States. If alternative fuels and technologies could somehow magically displace gasoline today, they would eliminate most of the need for imported oil at one stroke. 
Now, stimulated in the last few years mostly by environmental concerns, scientists and engineers have brought to the brink of fruition, or close to it, a number of alternative ways to power motor vehicles. Many of them are based on resources that are renewable rather than depletable and that emit less pollution than gasoline.
Scientists working with advanced enzymatic techniques are steadily improving the process by which wood is converted to ethanol, a form of alcohol fuel. By making the process more efficient, they have reduced the cost of wood-derived ethanol to the equivalent of about $2.15 for a gallon of gasoline, from $5 in 1980, and they expect to reduce it to about $1.15 by the end of this decade. American gasoline prices have been around that level in the last few years and are now higher. The use of wood and other vegetation opens up a potentially vast source of renewable raw materials, or feedstocks, and researchers are developing ways to produce the wood more efficiently.
Commercially produced methanol, another form of alcohol fuel, is already as cheap or cheaper than gasoline. Recent analyses by the Environmental Protection Agency have found that it now costs 90 cents to $1.10 to buy methanol that will propel a car as far as a gallon of gasoline. And as part of an attempt to capitalize on this economic fact, the agency's emission-control technology laboratory in Ann Arbor, Mich., expects in about two weeks to begin testing the first prototype of an engine especially designed for methanol.
American automobile manufacturers, meanwhile, have built engines designed especially for ethanol-fueled autos and installed them extensively in Brazilian cars. Within the last five years auto makers here and abroad have also brought to technological maturity flexible-fuel engines that burn methanol, ethanol and gasoline interchangeably, or any mixture of the three. The blending makes it possible for the alcohol fuels to replace gasoline gradually, with a minimum of disruption in the supply system. As part of its stringent new policy against air pollution, California is to serve as a pre-production testing ground for the cars.
By the end of the century, electric vehicles may also be making a dent in urban transportation. All three major American auto companies have been working on new electric vans and cars. As part of a demonstration project, General Motors, for example, plans to begin production next month of the first 60 modern electric vehicles produced in this country.
The years and decades ahead are likely to see a vigorous competitive struggle among these fuels and technologies, as well as compressed natural gas, which is being sold experimentally as an auto fuel in the United States.
The potential of these alternatives as an antidote to dependence on imported petroleum is clear: foreign oil and petroleum products contributed 15.3 quadrillion B.T.U.'s, or ''quads,'' to the nation's energy consumption last year; the burning of gasoline, measured last year at 13.74 quads, can be said to have soaked up most of the imports.
The extent to which alternatives could displace oil in energy sectors besides transportation is less clear, some experts say. ''In theory,'' alternatives based on renewable resources ''could be directed to the replacement of oil in all sectors,'' said Dr. Thomas D. Bath of the Solar Energy Research Institute, a Government-supported national laboratory in Golden, Colo. But it would take more money and time to direct alternative resources to specific oil targets in industry, businesses and homes than in transportation, he said.
The gains would probably be incremental and piecemeal - gradually replacing oil heat in homes with solar heat, natural gas or electricity, for example, or displacing some of the remaining oil in the generation of electricity with renewable alternatives like solar energy or wind power, or with nuclear power. But oil now accounts for only 5 percent of electricity generation, leaving relatively less room for improvement in that sector. Some oil, moreover, is used as feedstocks in the production of petrochemicals and asphalt and is not energy-related. Research Progress Depends On Spending Although some of the alternatives not based on fossil fuels may soon challenge both the technology and the economics of oil, experts say, none is likely to supplant oil in a widespread fashion for some time.
''You are very quickly struck by the fact that none of them are ready at all to compete at large scale with fossil fuels,'' said Dr. William Fulkerson, an associate director of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory who oversees the lab's programs in advanced energy systems and who directed a study of the subject last year.
Federal funds for research on energy supplies declined to about $1.5 billion in 1990 from about $5 billion in 1980, in constant 1990 dollars, according to a study by Dr. John P. Holdren, professor of energy and resources at the University of California at Berkeley. ''We've allowed our programs for research and development on these new options to deteriorate drastically,'' he said. ''We are just not making the progress that would have been possible if we'd maintained those 1980 levels.''
Without an increase in research funds, according to a study published last March by five national laboratories, energy derived from renewable sources would probably grow to 15 percent of the total by 2030. The study included a wide range of renewable energy sources, including, for instance, solar energy, wind power and fuels made from wood and other types of vegetation, or biomass.
If Federal expenditures for research, development and demonstration projects were doubled, to about $3 billion a year over the next 20 years, the study calculated, renewable energy's share of total energy use could more than triple, from 8 percent in 1988 to 28 percent, by the year 2030. It found that under these conditions of accelerated research, the use of transportation fuels made from wood and other vegetation would grow the fastest, accounting for 8 quads a year by 2030.
''That seems like an awful lot of time,'' said Dr. Bath, who headed the study and whose laboratory participated in it. ''But what most people don't have a good feel for is how big the energy system is, how much capital is sunk into it. It's 5 percent of gross national product, and changes in anything that big take a lot of time.'' Because of this, he said, years are required for a new technology or fuel to spread through the system on a large scale even though it works well and its cost competes with existing energy sources.
The process might be speeded up, experts say, if the price of oil rose high enough and remained there over the long term, either because of market workings or tax policies. But energy experts say that suppliers are not inclined to convert to alternatives more quickly unless they are convinced that oil will be permanently more expensive. Temporary price shocks brought about by Middle Eastern crises are not enough, they say.
''Prudent people aren't going to go out and spend some fraction of a trillion dollars based on a dictator grabbing control and manipulating things,'' said Dr. Robert L. Hirsch, the manager of research at ARCO Oil and Gas Company in Plano, Tex., who was formerly assistant administrator of the Energy Research and Development Administration, the predecessor of the Department of Energy. Obstacles Other Fossil Fuels Have Drawbacks Generally speaking, experts say, fossil-fuel alternatives to imported oil are not likely to compete on a broad scale as transportation fuels any sooner than renewables. The fossil-fuel alternatives include, chiefly, natural gas and petroleum derived from coal and oil shale. Synfuels, as these latter have been called, were the object of an intensive federally sponsored research and development program undertaken after the 1979 oil-price shock but abandoned later as prices of crude oil plummeted. For the most part, their use also emits more air pollution than other alternatives, and some energy experts believe their emergence is unlikely in the foreseeable future.
Natural gas may play at least an interim role. Until wood and other vegetation can be more fully developed as feedstocks, for instance, it seems likely to provide the main feedstock for methanol. And coal may not be completely ruled out. Methanol's proponents say that advanced conversion techniques coupled with more efficient engines would make it possible to derive methanol from coal. They say it would emit 80 percent less carbon dioxide than gasoline, reducing an emission that many scientists fear will cause the Earth's climate to warm.
In the 1980's, the electric power industry largely weaned itself from oil, but did so mostly through increased reliance on coal, one of the most polluting of fossil fuels. From 1978 to 1988, according to Federal figures, oil's share of electricity production dropped to 5.5 percent from 16.5 percent, while coal's share rose to 60 percent from 44 percent.
With nuclear energy on hold and fusion power decades away, the industry is now straining to reduce coal's share by expanding renewable sources of energy like wind and solar power, and to develop clean-coal technologies. Some experts say it would be a mistake for the transportation industry, in switching to alternatives to oil, to go the same route. Liquid Fuels Alternatives To Gasoline As transportation fuels, methanol and ethanol share an advantage in that they can each be produced from a variety of feedstocks - for example, natural gas, garbage and even sludge for methanol, grain for ethanol, wood for both. Neither alcohol fuel emits as much pollution as gasoline when burned.
Both ethanol and methanol can also be used in existing cars if some engine modifications are made, but experts say that new engines are necessary to make the alcohol fuels fully competitive. ''We are not suggesting retrofitting,'' said Charles L. Gray Jr., the director of the E.P.A.'s Ann Arbor laboratory, where the prototype of the new methanol engine is about to be tested. Both alcohol fuels pack less energy per gallon than gasoline, and the new engines are designed to help compensate for this.
''We would probably say methanol is the fuel to beat,'' said Mr. Gray. This is largely because the enlistment of natural gas as a ready feedstock has already made methanol economically competitive. But pipeline capacity makes natural gas in the United States vulnerable to sudden shortages in times of extraordinary demand, and much of the gas envisioned as methanol feedstocks would probably come from Canada, Mexico and the Soviet Union. Moreover, the burning of methanol has been criticized as emitting twice as much formaldehyde gas, a possible carcinogen, as does the burning of gasoline. Mr. Gray says this can be readily controlled, and that methanol emits far fewer other carcinogens than gasoline.
In the United States, ethanol has so far been produced from corn and is sold as an additive that, when combined with gasoline, produces gasohol. It receives substantial Federal subsidies, however, and some experts say that ethanol production would be limited by the size of the corn crop. Scientists are therefore looking toward ethanol derived from wood and other vegetation. At the Solar Energy Research Institute, scientists are using a variety of enzymes to break down the cellulose components of wood more efficiently, producing higher yields of ethanol that in turn bring down its cost per unit of feedstock.
''If ethanol from cellulose can be commercialized,'' said Mr. Gray, the proponent of methanol, ''it will be very competitive with methanol.''
If either ethanol or methanol were to rely heavily on wood as a feedstock, some scientists say, it could put heavy pressure on forests and other stands of vegetation and could create conflicts in land use. Anticipating this, scientists at the Oak Ridge laboratory are working with universities and forestry companies to improve the per-acre productivity of trees by growing and harvesting them, much like crops, on a cycle of six to eight years. Since the growing trees would absorb carbon dioxide, they would offset the carbon dioxide emitted by the burning of ethanol or methanol.
''If you ran the system right,'' said Dr. Fulkerson, ''there would be no net addition of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere.'' Looking Ahead Electricity And Hydrogen Electric vehicles, of course, emit no pollutants at all - except for those emitted by the electric power plants that recharge the vehicles' batteries - and their development by auto companies is proceeding apace.
''I think that by 2000, the impact of electric vehicles should begin to be felt,'' said Larry O'Connell, the manager of the transportation program at the Electric Power Research Institute, who has been working with auto companies in developing electric cars and vans.
For the most part, their range is still limited by battery technology. General Motors' new van that will go into limited, preliminary production next month, for instance, has a range of 60 miles when half laden, said Mr. O'Connell. Its conventional lead-acid battery can be charged overnight; if it is charged when the van is idle throughout the day, it has achieved 175 miles in a day. Its top speed is about 50 miles an hour, half laden. The van is envisioned as an around-town delivery vehicle, and will be tested first as part of electric utilities' vehicle fleets.
The Chrysler Corporation is working on a minivan with a nickel-iron battery that represents the next advance. Its range with an overnight charge is between 110 and 120 miles and its speed is about 70 miles an hour - about the same as a gasoline version of the minivan with a 2.2-liter engine.
Cars are also being developed that use electricity for city driving but switch to gasoline for longer trips, but all of the electric vehicles are perhaps two decades away, at a minimum, from any large-scale impact since it takes years for existing vehicles to be replaced.
In the farther future, perhaps, are hydrogen-fueled vehicles. Auto companies have experimented with them off and on for years. ''It's quite a clean energy system, but the cost has always been regarded as too high,'' says Dr. Joan Ogden, a research physicist at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton University, who has long studied the problem. The cost could come down close to the range of gasoline, she said, if photovoltaic technology could be harnessed to the production of hydrogen, cutting its cost. A number of European companies are working in that direction, she said, but practical application will not come until some time in the next century.
In the end, given the slow rate at which any of the alternatives are likely to be adopted, many of the scientists and engineers who work with them urge a time-tested interim strategy for reducing dependence on oil: conservation and increased efficiency in the use of petroleum.

GRAPHIC: Diagrams

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); 



835 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 7, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: PERIPHERALS;
Interesting Way to See Interest On Money

BYLINE: By L. R. SHANNON

 BODY:
FOR anyone who often deals with matters of interest - interest on money, that is - PercentEdge can be a great timesaver.
The interested party might be an accountant, lawyer or business executive dealing with such things professionally, or any consumer making large purchases or frequent investments.
PercentEdge consists of four spreadsheets that have already been set up to handle calculations for mortgages, amortization, present value and variable rate. You enter the numbers you know - in the case of a mortgage, the price of the property, the down payment and terms of the loan and so forth - and the program fills in the blanks, like the monthly payment required. 
As with any spreadsheet, you can readily play ''what if'' games with PercentEdge. If you raise the monthly payment by 10 percent, what does that do to the total price of the loan? What if you make a larger down payment? Since the answers appear almost instantly, the program encourages such explorations.
PercentEdge is easy enough to use that the manual is practically superfluous, unless you're hazy about the exact meaning of present value (''a tool for computing structured legal settlements, annuities, pensions and internal rate of return''). On-screen help is always available, and there are plenty of examples to call up. In addition, an electronic calendar and simple calculator are part of the program.
PercentEdge runs on any PC, XT, AT, PS/2 or compatible computer with at least 320 kilobytes of internal memory. A hard disk is desirable, but not essential. With a hard disk or expanded memory, you can run the program as a memory-resident utility, one that pops up in the middle of another program.
PercentEdge is an enhanced version of Josh Mitteldorf's Interest Machine, discussed here last summer. It is published by the Timeslips Corporation, 239 Western Avenue, Essex, Mass. 01929. The suggested retail price is $99.95. For the name of a dealer near you, or to order directly, call (800) 338-5314 or, in Massachusetts, (508) 768-6100. SmartGuide for DOS is a program that doesn't make the operating system of most computers any easier. It just makes it far more understandable.
Instead of hunting for the manual and trying to puzzle out programmer's prose, you just call up SmartGuide from where it is lurking in the computer's memory and look up the correct syntax for the command you want to issue. If you're not sure what a command does, the program will tell you. It even keeps track of the 15 most recent commands, so you can repeat them without retyping. That would be especially handy when you're doing housekeeping chores like copying files from one disk to another and issuing similar commands a number of times.
The manual is slim; the ways to work the program are almost perfectly obvious from the screen. It is slightly marred by the one error I noticed: You must type ''SGDOS,'' not ''SDOS,'' to load the program. But anyone who is already slightly smart about DOS could discover that.
SmartGuide for DOS works on any I.B.M.-compatible computer with at least 256 kilobytes of internal memory and DOS 2.0 or later. A hard disk is a convenience, but not required.
The program is a product of Individual Software, 125 Shoreway Road, No. 3000, San Carlos, Calif. 94070. For more information, or for the name of a dealer, call (800) 331-3313 or, in California, (800) 874-2042. The suggested list price is $29.95.
''Here it is - the last foam peanut you'll ever see from us,'' Pat Gallup, the president of MacConnection, says on the cover of the mail-order house's fall catalog.
MacConnection, which sells software and hardware for the Apple Macintosh line of computers from its headquarters in Marlow, N.H., has sworn off using the pesky packing material in its shipments. The company will switch to recyclable newsprint to stuff its boxes safely. In addition, it is stocking a greater variety of box sizes so it can package orders with as little waste space as possible.
The fall catalog, which is 51 pages plus index, may look a bit dull. That is because it is printed on recycled paper, in an experiment. However, it is full of merchandise that should make a Mac owner's mouth water. You can get a copy by calling (800) 800-4438 or writing MacConnection, 14 Mill Street, Marlow, N.H. 03456.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TIMESLIPS CORP (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMESLIPS CORPORATION; INDIVIDUAL SOFTWARE

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INTEREST (MONEY); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (87%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (71%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (69%); 

PERSON: SHANNON, L R MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



836 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 10, Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Greenpeace Faults U.N. Panel

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM, Aug. 27

 BODY:
The environmental group Greenpeace sharply criticized a key United Nations conference on global warming today, saying plans to prevent climate change were inadequate.
Greenpeace issued a statement on the first day of the four-day conference, asserting that the plans under discussion did not contain any concrete steps to prevent release of heat-trapping gases into the atmosphere. These ''greenhouse'' gases are expected to cause global warming, scientists say.
About 300 delegates from 75 countries, including Britain, the United States and Japan, are attending the session hosted by Sweden in the central town of Sundsvall. Greenpeace has observer status at the conference.
The meeting's aim is to lay the groundwork for a treaty on global warming to be adopted at the U.N. conference on environment and development in Brasilia in June 1992. The report being discussed is based on research by more than 1,000 atmospheric experts and has been issued by the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. It proposes that individual nations should attempt to limit or reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and says measures should also be taken to increase efficiency in energy production and energy use.
''The panel has been used by a handful of industrial countries which think in short-term economics instead of planning for coming generations,'' Greenpeace said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (94%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE (ORGN); UNITED NATIONS (UN) GREENPEACE; 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (93%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); 



837 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
The Future of the Philadelphia And Germanism on the Rise

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
Although the management of the Philadelphia Orchestra, still enmeshed in its labor negotiations, will neither comment nor confirm, it seems likely that shortly after Labor Day, Wolfgang Sawallisch will be named to succeed Riccardo Muti as the orchestra's music director.
Mr. Sawallisch, who turned 67 on Sunday, is the director of the Bavarian State Opera in Munich and is said by several music-business executives to have agreed to accept the Philadelphia post, although contract details are still to be worked out.
Known primarily as a solid and steady if not particularly imaginative opera conductor, Mr. Sawallisch will bring something rather different to the sumptuous Philadelphia ensemble than the fiery Mr. Muti has brought. Mr. Sawallisch is a German through and through, with all the debits and credits any national stereotype entails. 
He is also not alone. After a generation in which almost every nationality but the Germans won prominent music directorships in this country, North America suddenly seems flush with them and their Germanic allies. There is, of course, Kurt Masur as the newly appointed music director of the New York Philharmonic. Gunther Herbig, having spent time in Detroit, has moved on to Toronto. Christoph Eschenbach seems to be a hit in Houston; the Swede Herbert Blomstedt spent years in Dresden before going to the San Francisco Symphony; Claus Peter Flor and Bruno Weil and Christof Perick are rising stars in this country, and so is the Viennese Nikolaus Harnoncourt. And, to be sure, there are Klaus Tennstedt and Carlos Kleiber, both of whom appear here frequently (Mr. Kleiber has just been announced for the Metropolitan Opera's ''Rosenkavalier'' this fall) but who seem just a bit too mercurial to settle down to any one post. What binds these conductors together? Naturally, each is an individual, and Mr. Tennstedt and Mr. Kleiber are too flamboyant to conform neatly to any stodgy Kapellmeister stereotype.
But it is just the solid, steady kind of music making implied by the term Kapellmeister that seems to make these men desirable to American orchestras. What might seem boring to some sounds refreshingly sane to others. German conductors are sought for their supposed high seriousness, their idiomatic sympathy with the Germanic masterpieces at the core of the repertory and their skills as orchestra disciplinarians.
Indeed, an interesting possible aspect of the surge in German music directors involves the American orchestra musicians themselves. As the players participate more and more in the selection of music directors, they seem to crave the musical and even moral authority that a German conductor still symbolizes. As unionized musicians press for more power and benefits, they also seek more guidance and authority.
This shift in fashion follows a generation in which seemingly everyone but the Germans commanded music directorships. English, French, French-Swiss, Italian, Estonian, Finnish, Mexican, Indian, Japanese, Korean, even American - the whole world crowded American podiums. Mr. Tennstedt once referred to this rainbow coalition of conductors as ''the exotics.'' Germans, conversely, seemed to fall into two categories. There were old masters - Herbert von Karajan, Karl Bohm, Eugen Jochum - who didn't travel much. And there were younger conductors who didn't seem to be courted abroad. Clearly, a backlash against Nazism lingered in the musical world. But that seems to be fading in this new era of excitement about a soon to be united Germany. A disproportionate number of the best-known German conductors today are either East Germans or built their early careers there - Mr. Masur, Mr. Tennstedt, Mr. Blomstedt and Mr. Herbig among them. Paradoxically, the supposedly materialist (philosophically speaking, that is) and internationalist Communist regime in East Germany served to retain the old German provincialism and artistic idealism that seems so desirable in today's commercialized, deracinated international musical culture.
The reason for this odd juxtaposition of old-fashioned musicality and official progressivism was partly political, in that enforced isolation artificially re-created the circumstances of the pre-World War II era - as with Mr. Masur's Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra being largely stocked with graduates of the Leipzig Conservatory. It was partly economic, in that poverty and a worthless currency forced East Germans to stay at home and cultivate a local musical culture. And it was partly a reaction against the harshness of the Communist regime, as musicians and audiences turned inward, in classic German fashion, to find solace in art from the travails of life.
The new popularity of German conductors and things German in general makes life harder for non-Germans. One has to feel a little sorry, for instance, for Charles Dutoit. Perhaps this Swiss-French conductor is perfectly happy in Montreal, where he has been music director since 1977. But one can't help think he might have been chosen in either New York or Philadelphia, where he is known to have been a candidate.
Yet he was not, and the reason seems to be a perception among many musicians and administrators that he is not strong enough for the task. Maybe he is, maybe he isn't. But orchestras play beautifully for him; he conducts plenty of interesting 20th-century music, and he sells far more records than either Mr. Masur or Mr. Sawallisch. One plausible explanation for his image problem is that, as a specialist in French music, he is slighted in a climate that has newly come to prefer solid German musicians playing solid German music. In that sense, the stall in Mr. Dutoit's career, if it is indeed a stall, amounts to a setback for the diehard Francophiles among us, those eager exponents of French culture (the late Virgil Thomson, Ned Rorem et al.) who fought against the unthinking admiration for all things Teutonic that had prevailed in American culture before World War I.
But do German conductors really play German music with any greater authenticity or native insight than anyone else? It might seem unlikely, in our internationalized musical culture, in which conductors and performers of every nationality address every school of music. But there are those who regret this cosmopolitanism as a loss of national authenticity. For them, the return of the Germans may be a source of profound satisfaction, given the centricity of Germanic music in our orchestral life.
As far as Mr. Masur in New York and Mr. Sawallisch in Philadelphia are concerned, one must simply wait and see. I myself, however, recall with fondness a Mostly Mozart Festival concert a couple of summers ago in which Mr. Masur led the Israel Philharmonic in, of all tired warhorses, Beethoven's Fifth Symphony.
His interpretation was in no way flashy or attention-grabbing. He played the score neither particularly fast nor particularly slow. He brought no special musicological insight to his conception. He and the Israelis just played the music, but with a rock-solid authority and confidence and, in the end, conviction that proved utterly engrossing. If that's what German music-making in German masterpieces can mean for New York and Philadelphia, then both cities should have many satisfying concerts in store.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wolfgang Sawallisch of the Bavarian State Opera in Munich (Sabine Toepfer/Sueddeutscher Verlag)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: BAVARIA, GERMANY (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (91%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA

SUBJECT: MUSIC; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); US LABOR DAY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); OPERA (76%); RACE & RACISM (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); 

PERSON: MUTI, RICCARDO; SAWALLISCH, WOLFGANG; ROCKWELL, JOHN KURT MASUR (55%); CHRISTOPH ESCHENBACH (55%); NIKOLAUS HARNONCOURT (54%); KLAUS TENNSTEDT (54%); CARLOS KLEIBER (54%); 



838 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Oil Jolt
The price of oil fell $4, to $26.91. The 12.9 percent decline was the largest daily selloff in the crude oil futures markets in four years. The price declines for many refined products were even more pronounced. [Page D1.] Some promising alternatives to oil are on the verge of practicality. [C1.] 
OPEC is close to authorizing its members that can produce more oil to do so immediately, up to a total ceiling of 22.5 million barrels a day. That would replace most of the four million barrels a day lost as a result of the embargo of Iraq. [D6.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stocks gained back much of last week's loss in the wake of a big drop in oil prices. The Dow rose 78.71, or 3.1 percent, to 2,611.63. Added to Friday's 49-point gain, the Dow has now recovered 128 points, or 5.2 percent, erasing much of the 173-point loss in last week's three-day plunge. [D1.]
Stock markets around the world continued to climb from their recent losses, with Japanese stocks adding 4 percent.[D9.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose sharply and interest rates fell. [D15.]
Precious metals prices plunged, with gold posting its biggest one-day drop since early 1983. [D16.]
The dollar fell more than two and a half yen as a slide in oil prices relieved some inflation anxiety. [D16.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Reflecting the further tightening of credit, the Fed said commercial banks had further restricted lending since May. [D1.]
Personal incomes grew 0.6 percent in July and consumer spending rose 0.5 percent, the Government said.[D7.]
 
 
 
Companies
 G.M. said it would install air bags on the driver's side in all its U.S.-built cars starting in 1995. [A1.] The U.A.W. is expected to name G.M. as its ''negotiation target.'' [A18.]
Merrill Lynch and its insurers have quietly settled a set of claims filed after the brokerage firm stunned Wall Street by announcing in April 1987 that it had lost more than $250 million trading mortgage-backed securities. [D1.]
E-Systems pleaded guilty to conspiring to defraud the Government by falsifying test results on Army radios. [D2.]
A Federal judge overturned a $148.8 million award to Liggett from Brown & Williamson. Liggett had accused its larger rival of predatory pricing. [D4.]
A team from Northrop and McDonnell Douglas made the first flight of a version of the Air Force's advanced tactical fighter. [D4.]
 
International
A tiny South Pacific kingdom has started what amounts to a turf battle in space that could affect the future control of satellite communications between Asia and the U.S. [A1.]
The former chairman of Guinness was found guilty of charges stemming from the brewery giant's 1986 acquisition of Distillers. Three other executives were also found guilty. [D1.]
The German mark is rivaling the dollar in its pre-eminent role in the world economy. [D1.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
A drug company is opening the door to a novel and inflationary marketing method, critics say. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
The president of Tele-Communications Inc. is trying to placate both Wall Street and Washington with the same maneuver. Market Place. [D8.]
Many magazine publishers are grappling with ways to keep the bad news on falling circulation from further scaring off skittish advertisers. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); CARTELS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CURRENCIES (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); BONDS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); VERDICTS (64%); GUILTY PLEAS (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); CONSPIRACY (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); AIR FORCES (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); JUDGES (60%); 



839 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 78.71 Points, To 2,611.63

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks demonstrated surprising bounce yesterday, gaining back much of last week's loss in the wake of a big drop in crude oil prices and tentative signs of a relaxation of tensions in the Persian Gulf.
By the end of the day, every market barometer had made significant gains. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 78.71 points, or 3.1 percent, to 2,611.63.
Oil seemed to be by far the main reason for optimism among investors. But market analysts, traders and technicians said a range of factors contributed to the strong rally. The Treasury's 30-year bond rose more than 1 1/2 points, to 97 15/32. And the spot price of gold fell $26.70 an ounce - its largest drop since 1983 - to $388.30. [Pages D15 and D16.] Up 5.2% in Last Two Sessions Adding Friday's 49-point increase to the Dow's rise today gives it a gain of 128 points, or 5.2 percent, erasing much of the 173-point loss in last week's three-day plunge. It was the biggest one-day gain in both percentage and points since Oct. 16, when the Dow jumped nearly 3.5 percent. 
The Nasdaq composite index of over-the-counter stocks showed even stronger gains, rising 13.94 points, or 3.8 percent, to 381.27.
Barely nine minutes after the 9:30 A.M. opening bell and for the rest of the day, the New York Stock Exchange intervened against program traders under its 50-point rule. To prevent market activity from feeding on itself, the rule prohibits such traders from selling on a downtick whenever the Dow falls 50 points or more, or from buying on an uptick when it rises at least 50 points.
 
Effect of Programs Debated
Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trading, said the net effect of such activity lifted the market only 1.74 points yesterday. But Jack Barbanel, president of a Princeton, N.J., money management company, First Global Asset Management, felt otherwise.
''I don't think that everybody got up at 7 A.M. and decided to be bullish at the same time,'' he said. ''To a great extent, most of the activity was related to program trading and professional activity and not to euphoric optimism the way Wall Street characterized it.''
Mr. Barbanel said that even with the 50-point circuit breakers, ''there's still enough professional activity in the market'' to lift it until it gets to that limit.
John A. Conlon Jr., head of the equities division at Rothschild Inc., said he felt the market responded basically to ''improved hopes for a negotiated settlement'' of the crisis in the Middle East, a $4-a-barrel decline in crude oil prices and the drop in the price of gold.
Stock prices also improved, he said, because ''the Fed is reported to be leaning toward a less restrictive posture on monetary policy - toward a slight easing in interest rates'' and also because stock prices had fallen too much.
Investors had strong reason to be exceptionally bullish when they got to work yesterday. In the wake of increasing sentiment that a shooting war may be avoided and that OPEC members, meeting in Vienna, were working on getting more oil to market, foreign stock markets everywhere recorded big gains.
With investors anxiously looking for bargains and pessimists buying back stock they had sold short, the market had jumped 88 points by 11 A.M. By 2 P.M., it had moved a bit higher, falling back only slightly by the close.
Despite the strong rise, trading volume stood at a relatively anemic 160.2 million shares, down from 199 million on Friday. Advances heavily outweighed declines - 1,453 to 256 - but a troubling 60 stocks touched new lows while only 4 reached new highs.
The same stocks that have historically been market leaders led the market again yesterday. Topping the 10-most-active stocks on the New York Stock Exchange, with 2.9 million shares changing hands, Philip Morris regained 1 1/2, to 44 3/4.
The nine other active Big Board stocks also advanced, with Wal-Mart Stores up 2 1/4, to 29; General Electric 2 1/8, to 63 1/2; Texas Utilities 3/8, to 35; Boeing 2 1/2, to 48 3/8; General Motors 1 3/4, to 39 1/8; A.T.& T. 1 1/4, to 33 1/8; Fannie Mae 1 1/4, to 30 1/4; I.B.M. 4, to 104 3/8, and Ford Motor 1 1/8, to 35 1/2.
With investors looking for safety in an uncertain economic environment, drug stocks were big favorites. Merck rose 3 3/8, to 81; Pfizer 3 1/8, to 69 7/8; Eli Lilly 3 3/8, to 72 3/8; Johnson & Johnson 2 5/8, to 64 5/8; Syntex 3 1/8, to 55 1/8, and Warner Lambert 3 5/8, to 61 1/2.
Traders said heavy buying came both from private investors and from the big financial institutions. Much of it appeared concentrated in the safe, blue-chip ''big name'' stocks, traders said, but the rise in the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks showed that buying was widespread.
The S.& P. index, much in line with the Dow industrials, rose 9.93 points, or 3.2 percent, to 321.44.
Like the Big Board, the over-the-counter market, which rose even more impressively, moved ahead on the same market leaders. MCI Communications, the long-distance phone company, rose 1, to 33 7/8; Microsoft, the computer software producer, gained 5 1/4, to 60 3/4; Apple Computer jumped 2, to 37 3/4, and Nike, the athletic shoe maker, soared 6 1/2, to 68.
Gold shares, battered by the sharp drop in the metal price, also fell. On the Big Board, ASA fell 4 3/8, to 48 1/8; Newmont Mining 3 5/8, to 47, and Newmont Gold 4 3/8, to 47. On the American Stock Exchange, Echo Bay Mining lost 1 3/8, to 12 7/8.
Investors once again appeared to be paying attention to stock market recommendations. McDonald's rose 1, to 28 1/4, in heavy trading after Leslie Steppel of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. eliminated her recommendation to sell.
 
P.&G. and Luxottica Rise
Procter & Gamble rose 4, to 75 7/8, and Luxottica of Italy, which sells designer eyeglass frames, rose 2 1/2, to 23 1/2, after Deepak Raj of Merrill Lynch recommended it. Among Mr. Raj's other recommendations, Gillette rose 3, to 58 1/4, and Tambrands 2 7/8, to 80 1/4.
Commonwealth Edison, the Illinois utility, rose 1 1/2, to 30 1/4, after a request to raise rates won initial approval. Disney, a market favorite, rose 5 1/4, to 103 1/8.
Among other averages, the Dow transportation one climbed 38.32 points, to 908.03, with UAL, Airborne Freight, Delta Airlines, Federal Express, Conrail and Norfolk Southern aiding the rise. The Amex composite index of smaller stocks rose 4.44, or 1.4 percent, to 320.73.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: ROTHSCHILD INC (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); BIG BOARD (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); SPOT MARKET (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J JACK BARBANEL (57%); 



840 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports Bank Loan Tightening

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Reflecting a further tightening of credit conditions for commercial borrowers, the Federal Reserve Board said today that the nation's banks had increased restrictions on lending since May.
In its most recent survey of senior bank loan officers at American banks and foreign branches in the United States, the Fed said that there had been a ''reduced willingness on the part of banks to lend'' in the last three months. It said that 43 percent of those questioned had established more stringent conditions for their middle-sized customers and more than a third had instituted tighter standards for both large and small customers.
 
Sign of Slowdown
The survey is the latest sign that economic growth is slowing considerably, just as economists are expressing concern that the steep rise in oil prices since July could worsen inflation. 
''By far, the most important reasons domestic respondents gave for tightening their credit standards in the last three months were a less favorable economic outlook and industry-specific problems,'' the survey said. ''Also important were current pressures on banks' capital positions and capital pressures anticipated to result from a deterioration in the quality of their loan portfolios.''
Some analysts said that the latest survey could provide a further basis for action by the Fed to ease interest rates, although rates do not appear to be the sole reason for the banks' reluctance to extend credit or to issue new loans. The Fed last moved to lower interest rates in mid-July to stimulate the economy and alleviate a tightening of credit.
''It's clear that the Fed has now moved this up on the list of things that are important,'' said Robert F. Dieli, an economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. ''Throughout the year, banks have faced a real increase in regulatory pressure, plus the feeling that no one wants to make the headlines. It has now gotten to the point where the Fed, rightly so, has become concerned about it.''
The Fed has so far resisted pressure from the Bush Administration to lower interest rates to encourage economic growth. In recent testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, suggested that rates would not be lowered soon, except to offset unusually restrictive commercial lending practices.
Senior Fed officials met last week and appeared to have decided not to change interest rates until the Middle East turmoil began to subside.
''The Fed has been reacting cautiously, just as the banks have been, to the climate of uncertainty,'' said James Chessen, an economist at the American Bankers Association. ''It's not at all surprising that when there are fears about the economy, the banks become cautious.''
The latest study, of senior loan officers at 60 domestic banks and 18 branches of foreign institutions, found that lenders had become more restrictive in recent months, after earlier growth moderated as ''some loan quality problems have emerged.''
 
Tougher Standards for Some
For consumers, the survey found no change in the banks' attitude since the May survey, about extending installment credit. It said that about three-quarters of the banks had imposed tougher standards for lending money to finance commercial buildings.
The study's release comes four days after the disclosure of the minutes of the July meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, in which Fed members expressed some concern about restrictive lending practices.
''The members continued to hear numerous reports that some businesses were finding it more difficult to obtain credit from banks, notably builders in many areas but also other businesses, including auto dealers, in some parts of the country,'' the minutes said.
''On the basis of still fragmentary information, reduced credit availability appeared to have had some, but quite limited, effects on the economy. A tightening of credit standards, however, could affect credit flow and spending with a lag, and, in addition, there was some concern that the trend to greater restraint in the provision of credit might continue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



841 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Strong Mark Forcing Dollar to Move Over

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The German mark, the currency of the soon-to-be-united Germanys, is rivaling the dollar in its pre-eminent role in the world economy.
The Deutsche mark, which is now at its historic high against the dollar, is unlikely to replace it as the world's dominant currency. But as the mark's role in daily foreign exchange trading grows and as Europe unifies, the dollar, economists say, will no longer be the single currency of choice in the world market.
''The mark is very much the crucial currency in Europe,'' said John Williamson, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
The rise of the mark comes at time when the dollar's dominance is also beginning to be challenged by the Japanese yen, leading to predictions by an increasing number of economists of a tripartite currency system with a yen bloc, a Deutsche mark (or eventually a European) bloc and a dollar bloc. 
For the Germans, a rising mark is desirable now to help control inflation. It makes imports less expensive at a time when prices are vulnerable to inflation because of rising oil prices and the cost of reunification.
In addition, a strong mark, which the Bundesbank has been pursuing aggressively all year, will help the country attract capital needed to pay for the rebuilding of East Germany.
The main reason for the rise of the mark is the central role that Germany will play in a united Europe. Germany has the strongest economy in Europe, and more important it has a reputation for sound economic policy founded on the credibility of the German central bank, the Bundesbank.
The Bundesbank made itself the indispensable central bank in Europe by setting an anti-inflation tone for economic policy there. The mark is also the keystone currency of the European Monetary System.
 
Kohl's New Stature
Politically, the new prominence of Chancellor Helmut Kohl, which has been enhanced by his handling of the difficult issues of German unification, has added to the mark's luster and the global confidence in the currency. Mr. Kohl played a central role at the economic summit meeting last month and fashioned an agreement with the Soviet Union allowing a unified Germany to stay in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The mark has also been helped by the opening and growth of the financial markets in West Germany, which a united Germany should make larger. The more the markets open and the bigger and more liquid they become, the more attractive they are to investors. And this makes the currency more attractive.
But as fate might have it, just as the Deutsche mark attains its new status, it could be gone. The event that is increasing its importance in the world - the economic unification of Europe - could result in its demise, as the mark and other European currencies are replaced by a single European currency.
German political leaders have committed themselves to the eventual demise of the mark as part of the process to unify Europe economically. The Bundesbank is obviously leary about such a prospect. But it is fighting for a European central bank that will be modeled on it, meaning that such a bank will be politically independent and staunchly anti-inflationary.
 
Trading Surges
Beyond the strength of the mark and its central role in Europe, there are several other signs of the emerging status of the mark.
One is the growth in trading of the mark in the $500 billion-a-day foreign exchange markets. According to a survey of foreign exchange markets by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the trading of marks between banks rose to $50 billion a day in April 1989, the latest survey, from $21.6 billion in March 1986. Trading in the mark by investment banks and other nonbank institutions doubled, to $8.8 billion a day, over that period, and mark trading at foreign currency brokers almost doubled, to $18.4 billion a day, from $9.8 billion.
In addition, the mark dominates the currency trades in which the dollar is not involved. According to the report, the mark was involved in 95 percent of all reported trades of this kind, known as cross-trading.
Although there are no official numbers, foreign exchange traders contend that this cross-trading is growing rapidly - a sign of both the growing importance of the mark and the yen, and a declining interest in the dollar.
 
Concern About Deficit
In its most recent report, The Foreign Exchange Committee, an informal adviser to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on currency issues, concluded: ''The markets, as early as 1989, experienced a significant rise in non-dollar cross-currency trading and a corresponding relative decline in the importance of dollar-trading activity. Several members talked of the possibility that the United States may face increasing difficulty in attracting sufficient foreign capital to finance its current account deficit if the dollar's relative importance declines too rapidly.''
Another measure is the rise of the mark as a reserve currency held by central banks, which use currencies to intervene in the foreign exchange market. The dollar is still the main reserve currency but its share of total reserves is declining while Germany's is growing.
In 1980, according to the International Monetary Fund, the mark made up 14.9 percent of the total currency reserves held around the world and 14.3 percent of the reserves held by industrial countries. In 1988, the latest figures available, the percentage had risen to 16.2 percent around the world, an 8.7 percent increase, and 18.3 percent among the industrial countries, a 28 percent gain.
The Bundesbank had resisted a greater international role for the mark, including its use as a reserve currency, before the mid-1980's. Use of the mark for reserves can make it more difficult for the Bundesbank to manage domestic monetary policy because large holdings are out reach of the central bank. These difficulties are aggravated as more foreigners begin to hold large blocks of marks because of the attractiveness of Germany's financial markets.
But because the preference for a currency is set by market forces, the Bundesbank had to accede to the demand for a greater role as German financial markets opened and European unity become a possibility.
Now, the Bundesbank will be under more pressure, as has the United States, to keep its currency stable and attractive.
 
Mark Becomes a Haven
And a final measure of the rise of the mark is its newer status as a haven in times of political or military crisis. Until the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the dollar had been the traditional haven. It was backed by a stable Government and traded in a large liquid market.
But instead of rising, the dollar has fallen since the crisis began, as investors fled to the mark and some other European currencies, like the Swiss franc. ''With the end of the cold war, the Deutsche mark no longer suffers from the jitters when there is a crisis,'' said Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman, Sachs International.
For the dollar and the foreign exchange markets, the rise of the mark and the move toward a three-part monetary system including the yen will mean that the dollar will be traded less. With more attractive currencies to move to in times of crisis or change, the markets could become more volatile. But economists doubt that the change will make currency markets harder to manage.
''The pecking order isn't such a crucial element of the world monetary system,'' said Mr. Williamson of the Institute for International Economics. He added that he grew up in England in the 1950's, when the pound was No. 2 to the dollar and declining. ''If one really got the world compartmentalized into blocs that would be hostile, that would be bad. But that would assume there was a breakdown in trade relations.''
 
Three Distinct Blocs Foreseen
The evolution to a three-part system will take time but will be bolstered by the development of the three regions - the United States and North and South America, Germany and Europe, and Japan and East Asia - into distinct economic blocs even as the world economy becomes more global.
''If we accept the fact that the United States is one of the three major areas, it is hard to imagine that the dollar will remain as dominant,'' Mr. Hormats said.
Economists add that the strong mark might make it harder for the United States to attract the foreign investment needed to cover its trade and budget deficits. Yet at the same time, the weaker dollar will make American goods less costly, and more attractive abroad.
''For Americans, it is something to be pleased about because it tells us we'll be able to be more competitive with Europe and in third world countries,'' said Martin S. Feldstein, a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Reagan Administration.

GRAPHIC: Charts: What one mark is worth, in cents. (source: Datastream); percentage of foreign currencies held by the central banks of industrialized nations at year-end; average daily exchange trading in the U.S., in billions of dollars. (sources: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, International Monetary Fund.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GERMAN MARK (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN HELMUT KOHL (59%); 



842 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
Method of Pricing Drug Is Assailed

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
IN the latest battle over drug pricing tactics, state and Federal officials, doctors and advocates for patients say one company is opening the door to a novel and inflationary marketing method. The company, the Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, requires patients who purchase clozapine, a promising treatment for schizophrenia, to buy a Sandoz-licensed program of weekly blood tests. With the tests, a year's supply of clozapine, which Sandoz markets as Clozaril, costs $8,944.
Critics say that the price is excessive and that if the clozapine precedent stands, at least seven new drugs now in the research pipeline could be tied into similar arrangements. They say that Sandoz sells clozapine in Europe for one-third its American price and that European doctors monitor their own patients, as is done with other drugs. 
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, a unit of the Swiss company Sandoz Ltd., said its unique system is necessary because clozapine is very dangerous and schizophrenia patients may not otherwise show up for a weekly blood count. Sandoz requires that the tests be done by the Caremark division of Baxter International Inc., using laboratories of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.
A spokesman for Sandoz, Gilbert Honigfeld, said the company could be forced to withdraw the drug if it lost control of the monitoring, because of possible high awards in American medical malpractice lawsuits. Outside the United States, where high malpractice awards are rare, Sandoz said, three to five patients using clozapine die each year. Samuel D. Isaly, a securities analyst with Mehta & Isaly, said about 20,000 patients abroad used the drug. Critics say Sandoz may be violating antitrust laws. The Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general in New York, Minnesota and other states are examining the Sandoz-Baxter contract. Mr. Honigfeld said the company was cooperating in the investigations. He added, ''Our legal opinion is that there is no violation.''
Dr. John M. Kane, a psychiatry professor at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York who has studied clozapine, said it might benefit 100,000 to 300,000 Americans. Schizophrenia often causes severe delusions, depression and other serious symptoms, which the drug can relieve. In some cases, patients have been able to resume normal activities.
Sandoz said that 5,500 American patients were now using clozapine and that 1,300 receive it free. In theory, Sandoz, Baxter and Hoffmann-La Roche could divide potential annual sales of $894 million to $2.68 billion, but time is short: exclusive marketing rights for clozapine run out in 1994.
Moreover, because of the debilitating symptoms, many schizophrenia patients are destitute. Most state programs for the indigent are reluctant to spend their limited funds on the drug. Dr. Herndon P. Harding Jr., medical director of the Ohio State Department of Mental Health, said the $8,944 cost was ''obviously exorbitant.''
In California, the state's Medi-Cal program is pressing Sandoz to agree to cut the price, as Merck & Company and Glaxo Holdings P.L.C. have done for their drugs. Yesterday, the Upjohn Company announced that it would also offer reductions on Medicaid drug prices. A nonprofit advocacy group, New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, said it was preparing a lawsuit in a Federal district court to try to force Medicaid to pay for clozapine.
When Arkansas mental health officials said they could not afford clozapine, Senator David Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, introduced a measure that would help Medicaid programs buy the drug without paying for the monitoring system. Two Senate subcommittees have scheduled hearings next month on the bill.
The Federal veterans hospitals, which make up one of the nation's largest customers for drugs, are also challenging Sandoz. The Department of Veterans Affairs created its own independent monitoring system to insure that veterans would not be endangered by clozapine.
Sandoz said it might make a deal with the veterans hospitals if the Government agreed to protect the company against potential lawsuits. Dr. Laurent S. Lehmann, the veterans affairs department's associate director of psychiatry, said the Sandoz demand was unprecedented and unacceptable. ''Sandoz is gouging,'' he said.
Mr. Honigfeld of Sandoz said the company was ''seriously considering alternative proposals'' for protecting clozapine patients and the company. But he added, ''$9,000 is not excess in protecting the lives of patients receiving breakthrough therapy.'' Spokesmen for Baxter and Hoffmann-La Roche declined to disclose their share, which they said was set by Sandoz.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS AND HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BAX (SWX) (93%); BAX (NYSE) (93%); NVS (NYSE) (91%); NOVN (SWX) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (91%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); SANDOZ PHARMACEUTICALS CORP (92%); NOVARTIS AG (91%); HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC (82%); ROCHE AUSTRIA GMBH (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANDOZ PHARMACEUTICALS CORP

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; CLOZAPINE (DRUG); BLOOD; TESTS AND TESTING PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); DEPRESSION (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JOSEPH C PAPA (86%); 



843 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Close To Raising Output Level

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VIENNA, Aug. 27

 BODY:
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is close to authorizing its members that can produce more oil to do so immediately, up to a total OPEC production ceiling of 22.5 million barrels a day.
That would replace most of the 4 million barrels a day that have been lost as a result of the international trade embargo on Iraq and Iraqi-occupied Kuwait mandated by the United Nations. OPEC is currently producing a little less than 19 million barrels a day.
At least nine of the organization's 13 members are ready to back an accord to allow extra production to offset that loss, senior OPEC officials meeting here said today. The agreement is widely viewed as a positive response to pressure for more production by Saudi Arabia and its prime allies, particularly Venezuela, acting out of concern for Western economies to which their political and strategic interests are linked. 
It came two weeks after Washington agreed with Riyadh to station American troops in Saudi Arabia to defend the nation from any Iraqi aggression. The United States has also pressed Venezuela for additional supplies of crude.
 
Iraqi and Libyan Opposition
Iraq and Libya appear certain to oppose the production agreement, the officials said. Indeed, neither country has sent a representative to the ''consultative'' meeting that has been in progress here since Saturday.
Those two countries, and a number of other OPEC members, like Iran, Algeria, Indonesia and Nigeria, have strong feelings that the aggressive Saudi-Venezuelan initiative to raise production was in response to pressure from the United States. As one African delegate said, it amounts to a ''direct order.''
Several OPEC members, while wishing to preserve the group, feel the West is not entitled to demand help from a third world organization like OPEC because it has not shown enough sensitivity toward third-world debt problems. Consequently, much of the politicking today was aimed at circumventing any appearance of giving in to Western pressures.
 
Non-Producers Cited
In pressing their case for more production, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela cited concerns for non-oil-producing third world countries like Brazil and India that encounter extreme hardship in times of oil shortages.
And OPEC will insist on language in its final communique that states that it is acting out of a desire to be a responsible economic entity and to ''stabilize'' world economies, officials said.
''We want to keep the majority of OPEC behind this accord, and we will word it any way we can to achieve this aim,'' said a senior delegate from a key member of OPEC who spoke on the condition that he not be identified. ''The basic aim is to realize a substantial increase in current OPEC output, while keeping OPEC together,'' the official added.
Saudi Arabia is expected to raise output by 2 million barrels a day, to a total of about 7.5 million barrels a day, once the accord is reached; Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates are expected to lift their output by 600,000 barrels a day each, and other members of OPEC, including Nigeria, Iran, Ecuador and Gabon, would together contribute about 400,000 barrels a day, thus making up for most of the missing oil.
OPEC is also expected to call upon international oil companies to release supplies held in commercial storage and upon the industrialized countries to sell from their strategic reserves.
 
Prices Down Sharply
On world oil markets, word of the likely OPEC accord - coupled with a perception that tensions in the gulf crisis have eased - brought oil prices sharply down today.
Prices fell by as much as $4 a barrel on several international oil markets, but oil analysts said this could be reversed almost instantly if world oil markets perceived any danger of a war interrupting oil supplies.
''Many oil traders expected the war to happen over the weekend,'' said Garry Ross, president of Petroleum Industry Research Associates in New York. ''Now that no war appears immediately within sight, in addition to the certainty that OPEC will produce more oil, the market has come down. But it could flare up again the moment tensions heighten again.''
 
Appearance of Consensus
Throughout much of the manuevering and the closed-door negotiations that occupied the 11 oil ministers present here today, a major topic of discussion was how to create the appearance of an OPEC consensus.
Both Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have insisted on what they describe as ''an OPEC umbrella,'' that is, that their drive for increased production be accepted with the organization's approval.
Venezuelan and Saudi officials said that was the reason they had sought this informal OPEC gathering and that they had postponed for days their declared intentions of increasing their oil output.
This tenacious desire to preserve the facade of OPEC unity is seen as serving the purposes of all its members, as it has since 1960, when OPEC was created.
 
Foreign Policy Tool
Virtually all OPEC members, who are third world countries, are known to view the organization as an important part of their foreign policy aparatus in terms of its prestige as the most powerful third world group of its kind.
Indeed, OPEC membership is considered to convey, or enhance, the legitimacy of all the governments belonging to it. Such an asset is seen as one that OPEC nations would want to preserve no matter how deep their differences.
''I hope to God we can save OPEC,'' said Sadek Boussena, OPEC's conference president, who is also Algeria's oil minister. He was referring less to the organization's existence than to its cohesiveness.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The price of oil tumbled $4, to $26.91 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Prices dropped worldwide as OPEC appeared to be nearing an accord to increase production. (Agence France-Presse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALGERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (78%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (56%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICS (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M



844 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Personal Income Rose 0.6% in July

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Personal incomes grew six-tenths of a percent in July and consumer spending rose five-tenths of a percent, the Government said today in a report that some analysts said pointed to a stronger economy than expected.
Stephen S. Roach, senior economist for Morgan Stanley & Company, said the growth in both areas was important because it could lessen the effect of the Middle East crisis.
''It holds out the hope that we might be able to scrape by without going into recession,'' he said. 
 
Home Sales Up
In another upbeat report, the National Association of Realtors said existing-home sales rose for a second straight month in July. House resales rose 3.3 percent after a nine-tenths of 1 percent gain in June. The Commerce Department said consumer spending, which represents two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, totaled $3.67 trillion. That was up $16.6 billion from the previous month although the pace was slower than June's 1 percent increase.
A spokesman for the Commerce Department said the slower pace resulted from fewer purchases of automobiles, food and clothing.
Nevertheless, William K. MacReynolds, forecasting director for the Chamber of Commerce, called the consumption expenditures for June and July a ''bright spot.''
''If the July consumption level can be maintained for the next two months, consumption in the third quarter will increase at an annual rate of 2.3 percent over the second quarter,'' he said. ''This would be the highest quarterly increase since the third quarter of 1989.''
But Mr. MacReynolds and others said the inflationary effects of rising oil prices likely will reduce spending.
 
No 'Horror Stories'
So far, however, there have been no ''horror stories,'' said economist Sandra Shaber of the Futures Group, a Washington management consulting firm.
''People haven't been canceling auto purchases,'' she said. ''Retailers are complaining about soft business, but there's no sign of further deterioration because of the Middle East crisis.''
The Commerce Department reported that personal incomes totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.67 trillion, a $26.3 billion increase from June. It was the largest increase since a gain of seven-tenths of a percent in March.
The report said Americans' income after taxes increased five-tenths of a percent, down slightly from six-tenths of a percent a month earlier.
''The gains were primarily from wages and salaries, rather than dividends and interest payments and things like that,'' Ms. Shaber said. ''It suggests some strength in the economy, and that's money that people spend.''
Wages and salaries rose $16.2 billion after a $15.9 billion rise in June.
Americans' savings rate - savings as a percent of disposable income -was unchanged from 4.9 percent in June. Americans' savings rate for all of 1989 was 4.6 percent.
On the spending side, the increase in personal consumption, which includes everything except interest payments on debt, rose $16.6 billion, down from June's gain of $36.1 billion.
Spending on durable goods - big-ticket items expected to last more than three years - increased $5.3 billion. It was the second consecutive increase after five months of declines.
Spending for non-durable goods, however, slipped $1.7 billion after a $13.5 billion gain in June. Spending on services was up $13.0 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart of total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes. (source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); RECESSION (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); RETAILERS (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM K MACREYNOLDS (59%); SANDRA SHABER (59%); 



845 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: July Home Resales Up 3.3%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes rose 3.3 percent in July, the second straight monthly increase, as mortgage rates dropped into the single digits, a real estate trade group reported today.
The group, the National Association of Realtors, said house resales totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.44 million units, compared with 3.33 million in June. The gain in sales in June - nine-tenths of a percent - was the first advance in seven months.
Fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages fell to 9.8 percent in July from 10.06 percent, according to surveys by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. But they moved up again after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 and reached 10.29 percent by Friday.
The national median existing-home price was $98,400 in July, up nine-tenths of 1 percent from June. The median price means half of the homes cost more, and half less.
Sales increases were posted in the Northeast and South. The Northeast had a 14.3 percent rise, to 560,000 units, and the South gained 6.9 percent, to 1.4 million units.
Sales fell 10.3 percent, to 520,000 units, in the West, and declined 3.1 percent in the Midwest, to 930,000 units.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (69%); KUWAIT (69%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (64%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); 



846 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Make Strong Advance

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
A steep $4-a-barrel drop in oil prices and what traders saw as a slight easing of tension in the Persian Gulf served as a tonic to the credit markets yesterday, as prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose sharply and interest rates fell.
The benchmark 30-year bond rose more than a point and a half, with the yield dropping back under 9 percent, to 8.99 percent.
The hint of optimism about the Middle East was initially reflected in overnight trading in East Asia, where market participants pushed prices higher. Later, after activity shifted to Europe and then the United States, the big drop in oil prices served as a signal to buy securities. 
While welcome, dealers said that the gains were recorded on sparse trading volume and warned that the still-volatile situation in the Persian Gulf could easily spark a selloff.
 
'Still Being Held Hostage'
''We are still being held hostage to what goes on in the Middle East,'' one Government bond trader said. ''At the moment, people are more neutral on the market than they were before, when there was out-and-out fear. But there is still not much sense in taking a position when the very next news headline could wipe you out.''
William V. Sullivan Jr., a senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., said, ''There is a sense that conditions in the Middle East have improved, but it is much too early to say that we are out of the woods, even though all financial markets traded that way.''
Reports in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal suggesting that the Federal Reserve Board is prepared to ease monetary policy once the crisis in the gulf subsides and oil prices stabilize also helped to lift spirits, analysts said. The reports, which appeared over the weekend and on Monday, were based on interviews with Fed governors attending a conference in Jackson Hole, Wyo.
''My guess is that the Fed governors gave themselves the leeway to ease policy at last week's Open Market Committee meeting and are looking for a convenient time to do so,'' said Brian J. Fabbri, the chief economist at Midland Montagu Economics.
''That is good news for the stock and bond markets, and if it comes on a day when there are positive developments elsewhere, so much the better.''
 
Long-term Prices Strongest
Long-term bond prices, which have been battered recently, were the biggest gainers yesterday.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds were offered at a price of 97 15/32, up more than 1 1/2 points, or more than $15 for each $1,000 face amount of securities. The 8.99 percent yield compared with a yield late Friday of 9.15 percent, the highest level for the benchmark issue in more than 17 months. Note issues also fared well. Late yesterday, the 8 3/4 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 6/32, up just more than 1 point, to yield 8.87 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent 7-year notes were offered at 98 23/32, up 3/4 of a point, to yield 8.56 percent.
Today and tommorrow, dealers will be asked to bid on $20 billion in new two-year and five-year notes. With conditions in the Middle East far from stable, the auctions could not come at a more inopportune time, traders said.
Adverse events in the Persian Gulf could rock financial markets and make bidding for the new securities a potentially perilous exercise.
''When we get done with the five-year auction on Wednesday, there will be a big sigh of relief on the Street,'' one trader said.
By late in the day the two-year notes, which will be auctioned today, were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.16 percent. Meanwhile, the five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 8.54 percent.
As the market rallied, the weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills went smoothly yesterday.
Three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.49 percent, down from an average rate of 7.55 percent a week ago.
Meanwhile, bids on the new six-month bills produced an average discount rate of 7.48 percent, compared with 7.45 percent at last week's sale.
 
Other Bonds Rise
Prices in the secondary markets for investment-grade corporate bonds and tax-exempt municipal bonds also improved yesterday, but dealers said that activity was light.
Corporate bond prices rose by anywhere from 1/4 of a point for short-term securities to 3/4 of a point for long-term bonds, traders said.
Prices of actively-quoted municipal bonds rose by about 3/4 of a point after being hammered last week.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: Chart: 3-Month Treasury Bills (source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (77%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (67%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



847 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Spot Gold Plummets $26.70, Its Biggest Drop Since 1983

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Precious metals prices plunged yesterday, with gold bullion posting its biggest one-day drop since early 1983. Platinum and silver prices also dropped, as investors and traders who bought bullion in reaction to Iraq's seizure of Kuwait on Aug. 2 sought to unload their holdings.
At the close of the Commodity Exchange in New York, the spot August gold delivery, which expires tomorrow, settled at $388.30 an ounce, down $26.70. The far more active December contract lost $27, at $396.20. 
The drop in the price of spot gold was the largest since Feb. 28, 1983, when the spot contract plunged $42.50, to $400.50. During the week before that price break, gold had declined $105 an ounce.
 
Pressures of the Past
Weighing on the gold market then were both a drop in oil prices and the nation's gradual emergence from an inflationary period that began in the late 1970's. That period saw gold rise to a record $850 an ounce on Jan. 21, 1980, while silver hit a peak of $50.35 that day. Platinum advanced to just over $1,000 an ounce two weeks later.
Until yesterday, the biggest one-day drop in gold since 1983 came last March 26, when the spot contract tumbled $23.10, to $365.80. That selling came mostly from bullion dealers in the Persian Gulf who expected India to lift its 28-year-old ban on gold imports, which would have destroyed much of the region's lucrative smuggling industry.
Dealers said yesterday that many of the buyers of precious metals since the invasion of Kuwait were small investors and commodity funds who responded to daily news reports of heightening tension in the region. Those who sold the metal, at steadily rising prices, were more concerned about the longer-term implications of Iraq's action, dealers said.
They said professional sellers were concerned that the huge amount of bullion Iraq seized in Kuwait, which was a major gold market as well as an oil producer, would soon find its way into the world market, causing prices to fall. These concerns were heightened last week when many foreign workers who fled Kuwait told of being stripped of the gold they had accumulated as savings.
The seized gold is expected to be exchanged for imports of food and other supplies that Iraq cannot obtain because of the international blockade. Gold has historically been used to circumvent blockades and other trade restrictions.
''There is no doubt that Iraq got its hands on an incredible amount of gold from Kuwait's central bank, private banks, bullion merchants and individuals,'' said Steven J. Pepper, senior vice president at the Republic National Bank of New York, a leading international gold dealer.
''While that gold supply undoubtedly hangs over the market, the big sellers today were mainly locals,'' Mr. Pepper said of yesterday's gold trading. ''The big London bullion market was closed for a holday, so we won't get a reading on the sentiment there until Tuesday. We didn't see much feverish selling in the Swiss or Japanese markets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (80%); HSB (PAR) (80%); HBC (NYSE) (80%); 0005 (HKSE) (80%); ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (95%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (76%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (80%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (60%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; GOLD GOLD MARKETS (92%); SPOT MARKET (92%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); SMUGGLING (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: STEVEN J PEPPER (59%); 



848 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Over 2 1/2 Yen, Falls to Low Against Mark

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell more than two and a half yen in New York trading yesterday, as a slide in oil prices relieved some anxiety about the inflationary consequences of a prolonged Persian Gulf conflict.
In European trading, the dollar fell to a postwar low against the German mark. It fell in Frankfurt to 1.5423 marks, down from 1.5575 marks late Friday. The previous lowest closing level for the dollar was 1.5445 marks last Thursday in New York. 
When activity shifted later to North America, the dollar lost ground in New York from its late Friday close, falling to 1.5505 marks, from 1.5605 marks.
 
Focus on Yen
Currency trading was lighter than normal because markets in London were closed for a bank holiday.
Michael Faust of MMS International in New York said the Japanese yen took center stage in North American currency trading. The decline in world oil prices is a welcome development for Japan, which is dependent on oil imports, and a rebound in the Japanese stock market also helped to restore faith in the yen.
By the time trading was done in New York, the dollar was quoted at 144.20 yen, down from 146.75 late Friday and its lowest level since February. Earlier, in Tokyo, the dollar fell to a close of 144.80 yen, from 145.70 at Friday's close.
Currency analysts said optimism among traders about chances for a negotiated settlement to the conflict caused by Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait reduced demand for dollars. Traders also apparently gave high priority to worries about the United States economy, which had been put aside during a dollar-buying binge that followed the Iraqi invasion.
In Europe, the British pound rose to $1.9505, from Friday's $1.9445 close in London. Sterling gained in New York, where a pound brought $1.94335, compared to $1.9400 on Friday.
Selected late dollar rates in New York, compared with Friday's late quotes, included: 1.2735 Swiss francs, up from 1.2720; 5.2010 French francs, down from 5.2360; 1,149.50 Italian lire, down from 1,159.50, and 1.14315 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1353.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GULF STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); BRITISH POUND (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (54%); 



849 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
New Tactics By Magazine Publishers

BYLINE: By KIM FOLTZ

 BODY:
WITH circulation down, publishers of many of the nation's best-known magazines are grappling with ways to keep the bad news from further scaring off skittish advertisers.
Analysts say a growing number of publishers are trying to placate advertisers by dropping or modifying the offers of cut-rate subscriptions, which go for as little as half of the cover price. Others are doing away with incentives like free telephones or calculators, used extensively in the past to lure subscribers - although some, like Time Warner, still offer them for magazines like Sports Illustrated.
The latest figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulation showed that for the first six months of this year the average circulation of many consumer magazines has slipped. At Time, TV Guide, McCall's and Better Homes & Gardens, total circulation fell by about 3 percent. The picture was worse for other publications: People magazine had a 5 percent drop and Sports Illustrated was down 7 percent. 
''It is an immediate signal to advertisers of the real vitality of magazines if subscribers are paying the full rate,'' said Paul DuCharme, the director of print media at Grey Advertising.
Michael Clinton, the publisher of GQ magazine, said that almost every copy of the monthly men's magazine was sold for the full cover price of $3 and that that gave GQ a competitive edge. ''It is a very strong selling point with advertisers,'' he said.
Publishers are also making these changes to improve their profits. By eliminating expensive premiums and charging subscribers the full price, publishers hope to compensate for revenue lost through steep declines in advertising pages this year.
''A lot more publishers are concerned about the bottom line,'' said Donald Kummerfeld, the president of the Magazine Publishers of America, a trade group. ''It doesn't make any sense to pump up circulation during tough economic times.''
Newsstand sales for many of the biggest magazines were down by 10 percent or more. Elle was down 18 percent, Glamour was off 14 perent and McCall's 30 percent.
Newsstand sales are important because publishers reap the full cover price. These sales are also a critical indication to advertisers of how much consumers value a publication. The theory is that readers who travel to a newsstand and pay full price are far more interested than those who get a magazine in the mail.
Analysts and publishers said consumers were buying fewer magazines mainly because prices had escalated - many cost $3 or more - in the last few years.
Even though circulation is declining at many magazines, publishers are expected to raise advertising rates from 5 percent to 10 percent or even more in 1991, primarily to offset increasing costs for paper and postage - and revenues lost through declines in ad pages.
But publishers may find it hard to persuade advertisers to pay more, analysts said. Ad pages have been steadily falling this year. In July, ad pages as measured by the Publisher's Information Bureau were down 5.7 percent, and ad pages are off 3.6 percent so far this year.
Most analysts said that the rise in rates was merely a bargaining ploy and that most publishers were willing to negotiate. Many magazines are already offering discounts of 30 percent or more on ad pages for the fourth quarter.
Dan Capell, a magazine consultant and the publisher of Capell's Circulation Report, said he expected newsstand circulation to continue to decline for many magazines. Some magazines like Family Circle and Woman's Day are cutting back on their newsstand sales and hoping to attract more subscribers.
Some publishers are abandoning newsstands because the competition has become fierce. Not only are there more titles fighting for the consumer's attention, but the owners of newsstands are alloting space that used to go to magazines to items like candy and razor blades, which have higher profit margins.
Still, newsstand sales are still important to some publishers. ''We are more committed than ever,'' said Mark Miller, executive vice president and general manager at the Hearst Corporation, which publishes Cosmopolitan, Redbook, Good Housekeeping and other magazines that rely heavily on newsstand sales. To bolster its position at newsstands, Hearst recently struck a deal with the field sales force of National Enquirer to place Hearst magazines in racks at supermarkets, Mr. Miller said.
Perhaps the most revolutionary change being contemplated by some publishers is a switch, in part, from paid circulation to ''qualified controlled circulation,'' in which the reader gets it free.
Avenue magazine, for example, operates on a controlled circulation. Avenue asks a group of selected readers whether they would like to receive the magazine, and those who say yes get a free copy. Controlled circulation has become more attractive because the Audit Bureau of Circulation recently said it would include controlled subscribers in its figures. Although publishers would lose some revenue, controlled subscribers are far less expensive to obtain than paid subscribers.
But there are risks. ''Publishers will have to be very careful in choosing the kind of people who get free copies,'' Mr. Capell said. ''Otherwise it will mean nothing to advertisers.''

GRAPHIC: Table showing the decline of circulation for selected consumer magazines in the first six months of 1990 compared with the same period last year. (source: Audit Bureau of Circulation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; FINANCES; MAGAZINES MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); NEWSSTANDS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 



850 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Consumer Confidence Low

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Increasingly worried about the economy and pessimistic about the future, Americans are demonstrating the lowest consumer confidence since the nation was recovering from recession more than seven years ago, a business research group said yesterday.
The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index fell dramatically, to 83.8 in August, from 101.7 in July. The index, based on a 1985 level of 100, is arrived at from monthly surveys of 5,000 households in the United States.
August's level is the lowest the index has sunk since April 1983, just five months after the economy hit its weakest level in the 1982 recession. The drop of nearly 18 points in August was even greater than the fall recorded immediately after the October 1987 stock market crash.
The board said about 24 percent of the respondents believed economic conditions were bad, up 3 percentage points from July. Only about 20 percent of respondents said conditions were good, a fall of 3 points.
Nearly 19 percent of respondents believed conditions would worsen in the next six months, up from 12 percent in July. Less than 14 percent of respondents felt conditions would improve.
The board said there had been a deterioration in the public's evaluation of the employment situation. It said 21 percent of those surveyed said jobs were plentiful, down from about 32 percent a year ago.
Moreover, buying plans recoiled, the board said. The number of people who planned to buy an automobile within six months fell in August to 7.5 percent, compared with 8.8 percent in July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); RECESSION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); 



851 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: W.C.T. Out of Business

BYLINE: >By The Associated Press

 BODY:
World Championship Tennis, which staged the Tournament of Champions at the West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills, Queens, has gone out of business. 
The W.C.T. directors, Lamar Hunt and Al G. Hill Jr., announced yesterday that the 23-year-old Dallas-based company has discontinued its tennis tournaments effective immediately.
''The decision to terminate operations was a business judgment based on the realities of the economics in sports marketing as well as the difficult circumstances of an independent company operating a group of high-quality tennis tournament events on a financially viable basis,'' Hill said.
Tournaments scheduled for London in December, Scottsdale, Ariz., in March, and Dallas in April, have been canceled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (87%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: WEST SIDE TENNIS CLUB (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS

SUBJECT: TENNIS SPORTS (92%); TENNIS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); SPORTS MARKETING (86%); 

PERSON: LAMAR HUNT (73%); 



852 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: California Sees Housing Boom Become Slump

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 28

 BODY:
On front lawns in many cities along the California coast, the for-sale sign has become almost as common as the palm tree, and to some sellers seemingly as permanent. After several years of breathtaking price increases and demand so strong that houses were snapped up within hours of being listed, California's giant real estate market has slowed drastically.
Just as in the Northeast in recent years, California sellers accustomed to huge annual increases in housing prices have been shocked by how low the offers have come in. Some are dropping their prices to meet the highest bid, and housing prices are now falling in many areas. But in other cases they are either taking their houses off the market or leaving them on and refusing to budge much on the price.
 
Volume of Sales Down
As a result, the pace of housing sales in California has been dropping even more quickly than the price. Figures released Monday by the California Association of Realtors indicated that the rate of houses sold fell in July to its lowest level since December 1985. The seasonally adjusted annualized rate of sales last month for existing single-family houses was 419,943, down 15 percent from July 1989. Construction of new houses is also off sharply. 
And while prices in some inland cities like Sacramento continue to rise, prices are dropping in the population centers along the Pacific Coast. The median price of a single-family house sold in Monterey was down 9.3 percent from July 1989, and in Los Angeles it was down 4.5 percent. Prices in Santa Barbara dropped 2.9 percent from a year earlier. In the San Francisco Bay area, the drop was 1.8 percent.
Statewide, the median house price in July, at $194,099, was down 3.7 percent from a year earlier, when the statewide figure peaked at $201,653.
After the heady atmosphere that made this one of the nation's most overheated housing markets for the past several years, the new reality has come as a shock. Starting in 1986, prices rose as much as 30 percent annually in some areas, with the sharpest increases in 1987 and 1988.
Even with such increases, buyers found themselves in bidding wars that often pushed the selling price above the original asking price. Their willingness to pay reflected a belief that the house would be worth even more within a few months.
The ''buy at any price'' mentality seemed by late last year to have finally outrun the ability or willingness of many people to buy a house, and has disappeared this year. With the sales rate down and so many houses on the market, the pressure to lower prices is even greater, and many analysts expect prices to fall further, particularly if the national economy, now burdened by the Middle East crisis, descends into a recession.
But while the rapid deceleration of the housing market on the California coast resembles that of the Northeast, there are a number of important differences. Since prices in the Northeast have been falling longer and farther than here, more sellers have taken losses. And the Northeast's economy is weaker than California's.
In the view of many real estate agents here, the slump is nothing more than a temporary cooling. Californians continue to recite a litany of factors they think will keep the housing market from going into a steep dive, including the state's diversified economy, widespread restrictions on building that have limited the supply of housing and its strong population growth. Early census figures show that the state's population has topped 29 million, for an explosive 23.7 percent rise in a decade.
 
No Strength Left
Despite such optimism, the housing market in California is so enervated that the Kaufman & Broad Home Corporation, the state's largest house builder, recently started offering to pay closing costs for new-house buyers, an incentive worth about $10,000. The Marina City Club, a condominium complex in Marina Del Rey, has cut prices up to 22 percent. A developer in Lancaster, in the Mojave Desert north of Los Angeles, recently cut prices on some houses to less than $200,000, from $245,000, infuriating owners of identical neighboring houses who paid the developer full price just a few months ago.
More than a year ago, Charles M. Harker put a three-bedroom, two-bath house in the Los Angeles suburb of La Canada on the market for $497,500. The house, which he bought and remodeled as an investment, remains unsold, with the price slashed to $445,000 and Mr. Harker and a partner close to the point where their chance for a profit would evaporate.
''The market just came unglued,'' said Mr. Harker, an accountant. ''Many of us looked at it as though the strong market would continue. We didn't see the fall coming quite so fast.''
In November, Ann Pettijohn, a broker in Orange County, listed a three-bedroom house in the planned community of Irvine. The owner was being transferred, and had turned down an offer to sell the house to his company for $325,000, convinced that he could get a higher price.
 
'No One Buying Anymore'
The house remained on the market for six months at $339,000 before the owner finally gave up and accepted the company's offer. The company has had the house on the market through another broker for $319,900 and just accepted an offer that Ms. Pettijohn said was probably in the $315,000 range.
''That's a common scenario,'' Ms. Pettijohn said. ''The house eventually did sell, but the market in 1989 was $339,000 and in 1990 it's $315,000 to $319,000. It's like someone blew a whistle that only dogs and buyers could hear, and suddenly there's no one buying anymore.''
Few sellers are actually losing money. Except for those who bought at the peak last year and must sell now, most homeowners are still far ahead on paper after the double-digit price increases of previous years. As a result, banks and savings and loan associations in California report no upswing in foreclosures on residences, and most analysts say the state's financial institutions will weather the slump without any significant damage.
 
The Economy Is Rattled
Still, the downturn is extremely unsettling in California, where analysts already see signs of vulnerability in an economy that has enjoyed robust growth longer than almost every other region of the country. The economy is being rattled by huge layoffs in the aerospace and military contracting industries. Commercial real estate developers and brokers are being battered by a glut of new office space. Permits for construction of residential housing declined to an annual rate of about 160,000 in June from an average of 238,000 last year, prompting the beginning of a decline in construction jobs.
And some analysts say California's economy and its housing market are in for tougher times.
''With the economy at risk in the future, we couldn't have hit bottom yet in the housing market,'' said David Hensley, an economist with the business forecasting project at the University of California at Los Angeles. ''I'd expect further erosion in sales and probably prices too.''
 
'Cyclical Downturn'
Richard A. Snyder, a broker in San Diego who is chairman of the California Association of Realtors' long-term planning committee, said: ''We are in an adjustment period. My personal view is that we are going into a cyclical downturn that could last one-and-a-half to two years.''
But, Mr. Snyder added, ''We will in fact weather the storm and we won't see the price decreases you have seen in the Northeast.''
There are a few bright spots in the state. Sacramento and other inland cities, where prices are far lower than along the coast, continue to see increases in sales volume and price. In a state where only 18 percent of households can afford the median-priced house, according to the Realtors association, the lowest-priced houses are selling briskly.
But most of the state is facing a wrenching readjustment. Jim and Marilou Brown put their house near Santa Barbara up for sale in June 1989, asking $289,000, roughly the same price that a similar house down the street had sold for a few months earlier. Mr. Brown, a newspaper editor, moved immediately to Florida with the couple's son to start a job there, while Mrs. Brown stayed behind for what they thought would be several months.
 
An 11-Month Ordeal
But the house did not sell until May, 11 months later, and only after the Browns dropped their price by nearly 10 percent, to $263,000. In the end, after accounting for capital gains taxes and $25,000 in improvements they made, Mr. Brown said they barely came out ahead despite having purchased the three-bedroom house at the beginning of the boom in 1986 for $187,000.
''It was a bust as far as our expectations were concerned,'' Mr. Brown said. ''We didn't lose, but we certainly didn't come out with diamonds and rubies and gold fillings. It was kind of a shock because when I left California, the boom was still going on.''
Real estate agents by and large say they remain optimistic. Ms. Pettijohn, the broker from Orange County, said she got a call the other day from an investor who had stopped buying properties last fall, asking her to suggest some good values.
''When your investor buyers start calling,'' she said, ''you begin to think they're sniffing the bottom of the market.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The market just came unglued,'' said Charles Harker, whose three-bedroom house remains unsold after over a year on the market. (Michael Tweed for The New York Times); charts of the decrease of prices for existing single-family houses from '86-'90; the decrease of sales of single-family houses sold from '86-'90. (sources: California Association of Realtors, National Association of Realtors.) (pg. D17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (64%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (78%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (54%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (54%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (53%); CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ASSN OF REALTORS CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); STATISTICS (73%); SALES FIGURES (71%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W CHARLES M HARKER (58%); 



853 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
IRAQI LEADER SAYS HE WILL FREE FOREIGN WOMEN AND CHILDREN

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO, Aug. 28

 BODY:
President Saddam Hussein of Iraq announced tonight that he would allow the departure of all foreign women and children, whom he had previously barred from leaving his country.
The Iraqi leader's move, announced on Baghdad television and monitored here, appeared to mean that thousands of Westerners who have been described by President Bush as hostages - and by Mr. Hussein as ''guests'' of Iraq pending settlement of the Kuwait crisis - would be allowed to leave Iraq. The Iraqi statement said the decision would be effective on Wednesday.
It was assumed here that foreign women and children in Kuwait would also be allowed to leave, because Iraq has announced that it had annexed that nation it seized on Aug. 2, precipitating the crisis. But there was no immediate confirmation of this. [In Washington, senior State Department officials said they have been unable to confirm that there are any plans for a release of hostages.] At Least 11,000 Westerners Western diplomats speculated that the action was taken by Mr. Hussein as a way of countering the worldwide condemnation of his use of hostages without relinquishing his hold on Kuwait. It also seemed intended to improve the atmosphere for the talks scheduled for Thursday in Amman, Jordan, between Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar of the United Nations and Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq. 
At least 11,000 people from the United States, Britain and about 20 other Western countries are trapped in Iraq and Kuwait, among them 2,500 to 3,000 Americans. The decision to hold foreigners also appears to have been applied to some of the nearly two million citizens of at least two dozen other nations who were caught up in the crisis, although tens of thousands of them have been flooding out of Iraq since the invasion.
It is impossible to say how many of those held are women and children, but the assumption here is that the number probably amounts to several thousand.
 
Day of Conflicting Signals
The announcement tonight that the women and children could leave came at the end of a day of conflicting signals from the Iraqi ruler, who gave growing indications of making policy on an hour-to-hour basis under tightening military and economic pressures.
But while Mr. Hussein presented his decision to let women and children leave as a humanitarian one, he gave no indication that he was ready to abandon his occupation of Kuwait.
Indeed, the Baghdad Government newspaper, Al Jumhuriya, printed a presidential decree announcing that Kuwait had been declared the 19th Province of Iraq, that Kuwait City had been given the 19th-century name of Kadhima that it had when it was a dusty trading fort at the outer reaches of the Ottoman Empire, and that a strip of Kuwaiti territory a few miles deep along what was formerly the border with Iraq had been renamed Saddamiyat Al-Mitlaa, in honor of President Hussein.
In a statement issued by the Kuwait News Agency, Kuwait's exiled government described the measure as a ''conspicuous challenge'' and as ''an act of scorn'' for the world community ahead of the Thursday talks in Amman.
 
Invitation to Bush and Thatcher
Mr. Hussein coupled his move with an invitation to President Bush and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain to debate the crisis with him on television ''for the whole world to see.'' Mr. Bush and Mrs. Thatcher had responded to previous suggestions of negotiations from Baghdad with statements that rejected any talks as long as Iraq refuses to withdraw from Kuwait and let the hostages go.
But President Hussein said: ''I am prepared now - ready and prepared -for direct talks and dialogue with Mr. Bush and Mrs. Thatcher immediately.'' [The State Department spokeswoman said Mr. Hussein's proposal for a debate with Mr. Bush and Mrs. Thatcher was ''sick, and it doesn't deserve a response.'' Responding to the offer of freedom for some women and children, a White House aide commented, ''You can't take their word for anything, so we'll wait and see whether they let anyone go.''] Decision Is Hussein's The announcement that women and children would be allowed to leave was read in the name of Iraq's ruling Revolutionary Command Council, but the statement made it clear that the decision was President Hussein's.
It said that he had been ''deeply affected'' by meeting some of the detained families at a meeting earlier in the day in Baghdad, at which one woman, speaking English, responded to the Iraqi leader's justification of their detention by asking him how he could explain his decision to ''use children as a pawn.''
The television announcement repeated Mr. Hussein's earlier assertions that the decision to stop Westerners and other foreign groups from leaving was based on ''humanitarian reasons.''
 
Roundup of Hundreds
Starting 10 days ago, the Iraqi leader ordered his troops and officials to begin rounding up Westerners, apparently mainly Americans and Britons, and dispatching them to military installations and other strategic sites in Kuwait and Iraq. President Hussein justified the move by saying that he hoped to deter attack on the installations by the United States and other forces in the region. Recent Western estimates have put the number rounded up at several hundred.
Referring to President Hussein, the television announcement tonight said: ''He ordered that all women and children who are foreigners in Iraq enjoy the freedom of staying or leaving, including families which the National Council decided to host. Effective tomorrow, Wednesday, Aug. 29.''
Western officials, caught by surprise by the sudden announcement from Baghdad, said they had no immediate count of how many of the hostages were women and children.
 
'Some Pretty Children'
Only hours before the announcement, which constituted the first major break in a hostage-taking policy that Mr. Hussein declared 10 days ago, the Iraqi leader met with a group of about 25 hostages, including women and children, and implied that he intended to continue holding them as human shields against possible attack.
In a somber, half-hour defense of his decision to keep Westerners as hostages, President Hussein said that any attack on Iraq would put at risk ''some pretty children, just as pretty as the children that we have here.'' He added that by preventing the Westerners from leaving, ''the same way as Iraq would lose its sons, its women and its children, of course the aggressive parties, the aggressive countries, would also lose their own men and their women and children.''
He continued: ''So, if the United States were to attack our installations in which we have men, women, children accommodated, these people would be killed.''
The television announcement on letting women and children leave left Western governments with the problem of figuring out whether, and how, they could assist any departures from Iraq and Kuwait, which have been cut off from most scheduled air links with the outside world since the United Nations imposed a trade embargo on Iraq.
Unless an airlift is organized, there is the possibility of further chaos at Iraq's road border with Jordan at the remote outpost of Ruweished. About 20,000 people, mainly Asians, arrived today alone, according to reports from Jordan, following nearly a quarter of a million others who have crossed in the past two weeks.
 
A Sudden Announcement
Iraq's decision to allow family members to leave, while continuing to hold men, was a sudden one. Only a few hours before the announcement, the Iraqi News Agency said that Mr. Hussein had decided to allow one British family, which it did not name, to leave Iraq so as to be able to celebrate the birthday of an infant daughter at home. Then, only two hours before the television statement on the women and children, President Hussein appeared in the filmed meeting with the hostages, which was said to have taken place earlier today.
At the meeting, Mr. Hussein, dressed in a gray business suit and seated in an armchair, appeared at pains to strike a more formal tone than he adopted in his first meeting with hostages last week. In that encounter, also shown on Baghdad television and relayed around the world, he patted a British boy on the head, and said that the British youngsters could be ''proud'' one day of having played a part in preventing war. The scene was denounced by Mr. Bush and Prime Minister Thatcher, among other Western leaders, as an exploitation of defenseless people.
The criticism evidently stung Mr. Hussein, whose rambling defense today of his decision to hold the Westerners included a riposte to ''some British politicians,'' evidently meaning Mrs. Thatcher, who described the earlier televised meeting as ''repulsive.''
''I can't see why they should be annoyed,'' the Iraqi leader said. He added: ''If the situation were to be reversed, if Iraq were to invade Paris, Washington or London, can we imagine the kind of measures these countries would take.''
 
'Appreciate Your Feelings'
With the hostages, most of them apparently Westerners, seated in a circle around an ornately decorated room, Mr. Hussein said: ''I appreciate your feelings, feelings that probably make you feel restricted or unhappy, because you are not allowed to travel, to leave, because if I were in your place, or if my family were in your place, then I would have had the same feelings.'' But he added that ''feelings of humanity'' were not the only issue, and that matters should be seen in the ''larger context'' of Iraq's threatened position.
In Cairo, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, who has led the Arab states in their condemnation of Mr. Saddam, struck a pessimistic note about the mediation efforts of King Hussein of Jordan. Mr. Mubarak said that he doubted that the King would achieve anything with his ''flying around'' the North African states, a description that he accompanied with an airy wave of his hands. The Egyptian leader has made no secret of his disdain for King Hussein since the Jordanian leader appeared to align himself with President Hussein in the early days of the crisis.
Mr. Mubarak appeared to place most of his hopes on a change of heart by President Hussein. ''I am saying to him, please, please in the name of humanity, in the name of the Arabs, and the Islam of which you speak, please defuse the bomb, because you are about to destroy the world.'' He added: ''Sometimes common sense returns to people. Sometimes they become more pragmatic.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Saddam Hussein of Iraq in an appearance yesterday with foreigners being held in Baghdad (Iraqi News Agency via Reuters) (pg. A1); A Saudi civil defense worker demonstrating the use of protective gear for chemical warfare to civilians yesterday on a street in Dhahran. (Associated Press); map of Saudi Arabia showing location of Kuwait. (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); AMMAN, JORDAN (75%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HOSTAGES HOSTAGE TAKING (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BURNS, JOHN F SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 



854 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: In Moscow, Cigarette Addicts Will Get Just Half Pack a Day

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Facing a tobacco shortage that has produced street protests and riots in some cities, Moscow's City Council decided today to ration cigarettes starting this Saturday.
When Moscow residents pick up their monthly coupons for sugar, which is already rationed, they will also get coupons for 15 packs of cigarettes a person, the newspaper Vechernyaya Moskva said - an official limit of about one-half pack a day.
But nicotine addicts with money will be able to buy more cigarettes on the thriving black market, where a medium-quality brand that officially sells for 30 kopecks a pack goes for nearly 5 rubles. Higher-quality foreign cigarettes bring 20 rubles or more a pack, a small fortune in a nation where the average monthly wage is 240 rubles a month. 
Tobacco coupons apparently will be issued in the same indiscriminate manner as sugar coupons, which means that every resident - including children and nonsmokers - will get the same amount.
 
Trade Coupons for Sugar
People who don't use their coupons will be able to give them to friends, sell them on the black market or trade them officially the following month for 4.4 extra pounds of sugar.
The cigarette shortage, which began in early summer and got much worse this month, has forced Muscovites to line up for hours at tobacco kiosks.
Irate smokers have blocked traffic in Moscow's central Revolution Square, and street protests also have been reported in other cities, including Leningrad, Gorky and Yaroslavl.
 
Riots in Siberia
People demanding more tobacco, food and alcohol rioted Friday in the Siberian city of Chelyabinsk, smashing shop windows and throwing gasoline bombs, the official Soviet press agency Tass reported.
The authorities have announced price increases that will triple the official cost of most cigarette brands starting next month, but Moscow is believed to be the first city to ration tobacco.
Official spokesmen have blamed the shortage on factory breakdowns, hoarding by black marketeers and the near-depletion of the nation's reserves of foreign currency, which means that the Soviet Union has bought 5 billion fewer cigarettes from Bulgaria this year than it did last year.
Although the Soviet Union is the world's third largest tobacco grower, topped only by the United States and China, it imported about 55 billion cigarettes in 1988, with more than 95 percent coming from Bulgaria.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); BULGARIA (68%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MOSCOW (USSR)

SUBJECT: SMOKING; RATIONING AND ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES; SHORTAGES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SMOKING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); RIOTS (89%); TOBACCO STORES (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (73%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (54%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (50%); 



855 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: SLOVAKS ARE HURT BY ARMS-SALES BAN

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MARTIN, Czechoslovakia

 BODY:
A hand-scrawled, blue-and-white banner hangs limply over the arms factory entrance, proclaiming, ''Democracy. Full Employment. Economic Welfare.''
Although this sounds like leftover sloganeering from the Stalinist era, it is instead a desperate plea from the new post-Communist era, a cry for help from the the 15,000 beleaguered workers at the Z.T.S. arms factory, known for producing sturdy tanks for the Soviet bloc. 
This city, nestled among the streams and lush green hills of northern Slovakia, has been in a state of shock since Foreign Minister Jiri Dienstbier, embarrassed by his nation's reputation as a merchant of death, announced early this year that Prague would halt arms exports as soon as possible.
This surprise announcement has jolted not just Martin, but also Detva, Trencin, Dubnica nad Vahom and many other communities that became boom towns as Czechoslovakia grew into the world's seventh-largest arms exporter. As the curtain closes on the cold war, what is happening in Martin is the Soviet bloc mirror image of what is happening in communities in Missouri, California and New York, where the factory gates say Lockheed, McDonnell Douglas and Grumman.
''When we first heard the news we couldn't believe it,'' said Stanislav Neboska, deputy director of the Z.T.S. factory in Martin. ''Now the big question is where do we get work to replace the special production?''
 
'Many of Us Grew Spoiled'
Industry officials still cling reflexively to the secretive term ''special production'' to describe what they long made for export: T-62 and T-72 tanks, BVP-1 and OT-75 armored personnel carriers, Skorpion machine pistols, Bren machine guns, L-39 jet trainers and self-propelled artillery. Czechoslovakia is also the manufacturer of Semtex, the infamous plastic explosive believed to have been used to blow up Pan American Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in December 1988.
Czechoslovakia sold such wares to other Warsaw Pact countries and to third world arms buyers, including Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria, Ethiopia and Afghanistan. Arms were one of Czechoslovakia's main sources of hard currency, providing it with $2.15 billion over the past five years.
''Many of us grew spoiled and lived comfortably thanks to arms sales,'' said Jan Maric, director of a 16,000-employee factory in nearby Dubnica, which makes armored personnel carriers. He added, however, that there was also deep-seated uneasiness about building wealth on such a foundation. ''To produce weapons is no glory psychologically,'' he said.
Many workers at the Martin plant view the decision to halt arms exports as a noble but vain gesture. One-third of Martin's workers face layoffs or retraining as a result. What is more, many are reluctant to move to new jobs because arms plants have traditionally paid 10 percent more than other factories.
''A lot of people are saying, 'It won't do much good if we disarm while everyone else doesn't disarm,' '' said Jan Zaborsky, a graying 46-year-old who works on Martin's tank assembly line. ''If only Czechoslovakia ceases to export arms, then the export markets we have will just be taken by other countries. We are not such a rich country that we can afford this.''
 
Conversion to Civilian Uses
Now many workers are wondering where their paychecks will come from when most arms production lines close down at the end of this year. Some production will be continued to fulfill long-term contracts and provide spare parts.
''It doesn't make sense to stop military production until we have taken some steps to find some civilian production to replace it,'' said Peter Truchly, a lanky, mustachioed, 30-year-old foreman on Martin's tank assembly line.
Halting arms exports is expected to affect 200,000 workers in 110 factories nationwide, said Ladislav Nemec, who is overseeing a conversion to civilian production for the Ministry of Machinery and Electronics. ''These people will end up doing less-qualified work and being paid less,'' he admitted.
Worker and manager alike in the industry are looking to two sources for salvation: Prague for aid and Western companies for investment and production contracts. ''I believe we can cushion the impact of all this,'' said Mr. Maric, head of the Dubnica armored personnel carrier factory. ''Unfortunately, officials in the Finance Ministry say they can't help much. They say money is very hard to come by nowadays.''
The Dubnica factory is negotiating with American and Western European companies about producing forklifts and equipment for manufacturing rubber, while the Martin plant is already making bulldozers for a West German company. It also plans to produce more road-building machinery.

GRAPHIC: Map of Czechoslovakia showing location of Martin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%); 

COUNTRY: SLOVAKIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMS TRADE (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE MFG (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (68%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA



856 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
Oil Prices Moves Up

 BODY:
The price of oil turned back up, rising nearly $1, to $27.88 a barrel, after falling $4 Monday. Business Day, page D1. OPEC delayed a final decision to increase production. Page D19. Many companies are gaining from the military buildup as they receive orders to supply bullets, bug spray and more. Page D1.
Civilians employed by military contractors are being sent to the Middle East to help with sophisticated equipment. Page D19.
How much energy insurance is really enough? Peter Passell, Economic Scene, Page D2.
On the campus at Berkeley, Calif., students from a new generation worry about a new war disrupting their lives. National news, page A18.
A wave of threats and harrassment aimed at Arab-Americans is reported to be sweeping the nation. Page A19.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (87%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); ARAB AMERICANS (69%); 

PERSON: PETER PASSELL (55%); 



857 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
Excerpts From Iraqi Chief's Remarks

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks by President Saddam Hussein of Iraq during a visit with Western hostages, as broadcast by CNN and recorded by Federal News Service, a transcription company. Mr. Hussein's remarks were translated by an Iraqi interpreter.
I appreciate your feelings, feelings that probably make you feel restricted or unhappy because you are not allowed to travel, to leave, because if I were in your place or if my family were in your place then I would have had the same feelings.
But politicians are forced sometimes to take a position that goes beyond what they see directly in front of them, to visualize something that goes beyond what they see. For instance, if it were to do with the feelings of humanity . . . then I would have immediately said that you should leave, that you should go to your families. But when we put the issue in a larger context . . . in the event of a, God forbid, of a military clash between Iraq and the - and the armies of the countries that have come to the area. 
And if we visualize the sort of losses that would result from such a clash if it were to happen, and if we -and if we, along with this, were to also suppose that your presence here in Iraq . . . would be amongst the factors that would prevent such a collision . . . then we would find ourselves in a situation . . . in which we are forced to keep some - a number of the foreigners so that - in order to prevent the death of many more foreigners if the war were to erupt or come about.
 
Targets and Americans
Economic and scientific installations in Iraq are in operation . . . night and day. . . . Those working on those installations live on the same complexes, the same camps. . . . If war were to erupt, then, of course, these installations will be prime targets during this war. . . . So, through this we can clearly expect the number -a great number of people that are at risk, including some pretty children, just as pretty as the children that we have here.
Amongst the most important things which we should take into consideration also is the inhuman manner in which the President of the United States has behaved. It is he and his administration that should be asked why they have come to the area. Initially, they said they were coming to the area to defend Saudi Arabia. And once this pretext was discovered to be a flimsy one, now they say that they have come to defend the oil in the area. . . . The people of the area, the Arabs, do not want to drink their oil; they would want to sell it to other countries, to the United States, to Japan, to Europe. And the revenue that comes from oil . . . would . . . be employed in the development of the oil-producing countries. . . .
So, the oil would be sold to the West. . . . So, even this pretext, that is their coming to defend oil, is, in fact, another flimsy one.
 
Range of Weapons
In a war situation, the same way as Iraq would lose its sons, its women and its children, of course the aggressive parties, the aggressive countries would also lose their own men and their women and children. And by this I am talking about those parties perpetrating the offensive, the aggression, and those that ally themselves with them. . . . The weaponry, the kind of weaponry that Iraq is in possession of may not be capable of reaching the United States, as a territory, but it - our weaponry is capable of reaching areas in which the United States has allies here.
 
Objectives of Iraq
Some Western politicians say that the measures that Iraq has taken are inhuman. I would agree that it is an inhuman measure if we were - if we had any other alternatives through which we could prevent the scourge of war. I also agree that it would be inhuman if the objective behind us taking this measure was, in fact, inhuman. . . .
But, if it - if it is conducted in the manner that it is being conducted now, which is hosting you, that is, I know it is a difficult sort of situation, it is a difficult kind of hospitality.
If the situation were to be reversed, if Iraq were to invade Paris, Washington or London, can we imagine the kind of measures that these countries would take?
Have they forgotten all that they keep saying about democracy and about liberty? When - as soon as they heard that some of their citizens would not be allowed to leave Iraq they immediately detained Iraqi citizens that are there in their countries.
We may think together of sending messages - you as messages of peace to your government, European governments, the Western governments in which you ask them the direct question of why have you come to the area as invaders in view of the fact your interests, your legitimate interest are insured in all criteria past and - follow in the past and will follow in the present? In which situation those of you who take part in conveying this message will be champions of peace which will be contrary to the attempts made by those who want to become champions through adventures, adventures which would lead to nothing but loss and destruction.
It seems my that my talk has been heavy on some of you, especially the kids who do not really - are not interested in matters of politics. They seem to be going to sleep.
 
Children as Hostages
QUESTIONER. I'll ask you how you can use children as a pawn in something that they don't understand?
HUSSEIN. This is a - exactly -this is a very legitimate question and expected from a lady such as yourself. But I want to ask the same question, but in a different way, and then I will answer. . . . My question is, is it right to kill people without any legitimate reason or objective? . . .
We all know wars and we've seen films about wars. We know very well that if aircraft were to come and attack cities, they would kill children just as pretty as your own children who have their own mothers just like you, and they would also kill women. So, this - these huge armies that have been brought now to the - to our sacred places, they are meant to come here to kill children, women, and old people, to kill troops that have not really committed any aggression against the United States or against Britain. Now, I would answer your question. No one should cause any harm to anybody. And no one should cause any harm to anybody unless it is done in an unavoidable situation of self-defense and there was no other alternative through which you could avoid the confrontation So, for my part, as being responsible here in Iraq, I am - I'm prepared now - ready and prepared for direct talks and dialogue with Mr. Bush and with Mrs. Thatcher immediately. And if they so wish and in order to let the world know everything about the whole situation, then let us have the debate between me and them on television for the whole world to see.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE CHILDREN (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FAMILY (76%); ARMIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); 



858 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
Strains of Embargo on Iraqis Reported

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 28

 BODY:
As a result of the trade embargo against Iraq, food lines are growing in Baghdad, hoarding is common, rationing has begun and the Government is urging Iraqis to make dates a larger part of their diet, a French newspaper reported today.
In a report by a correspondent in Baghdad, Le Figaro depicted a city where the trade embargo has already started to bite, but has not yet had dramatic effects.
''Waiting in line on the sidewalk outside the bakery has become part of the daily routine for the capital's inhabitants,'' the article said. ''They have already lived through eight years of war against Iran and easily renew old habits.'' 
The article said the atmosphere was one of resignation rather than panic in Baghdad's major commercial district, Al Karraba. Many Iraqi families have stocked up on food, with some having hoarded enough to last six months. While speculative hoarding is punishable by law, the article noted, ''The state cannot forbid a mother from preparing for the future.''
 
'Enthusiasm Is Very High'
Shortages are becoming more and more common. On Aug. 18, the Minister of Social Affairs said, ''The economic blockade would bring about shortages in imported foods, such as milk for children.'' The article, written by Claude Lorieux, quotes a foreign resident who said: ''Rice is distributed sparingly. Even in the big hotels, sugar and tea are rare, it's true. One must realize that people have been stocking up like maniacs for the last week and that rice is only delivered to the shops once a month.''
In the article, an Iraqi office worker, sounding like a hardened Soviet consumer, said that whenever she sees a line, she gets on it because it evidently means there is something worth waiting for.
The Iraqi Government is using today's scarcities to teach a lesson, the article suggests. It wants to prepare the population for the worst while pointing its finger at what it considers the guilty party: ''George Bush's America.''
Manal Yunis Abdul Razak al-Alussi, director of the Federation of Iraqi Women, said it was easy to mobilize women ''because enthusiasm is very high.'' She said women often chant slogans of solidarity, including, ''We are going to eat dates and drink water.''
 
Lists of Consumers
Mrs. Alussi said dates were a very rich product that ''give energy and cannot do harm.'' She said a team of specialists had compiled a book of date recipes. She was asked whether she had already prepared a date dinner for her four children, and replied, ''Our meals have definitely changed, but we haven't reached that level yet.''
Mrs. Alussi said a system of rationing had been created in which directors of each administrative district make up lists of families. The system allows consumers to obtain a minimum of rice, sugar and other household goods.
To show her nation's support of Iraq's leader, Saddam Hussein, Mrs. Alussi quoted a letter that a 10-year-old girl had sent to President Bush.
''Mister, I can go without Pepsi-Cola,'' she wrote. ''That's not serious. But you, without oil, what will you become?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: RATIONING AND ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES; FOOD; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HOARDING EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); FAMILY (73%); WRITERS (72%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



859 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
Japan Putting Limits on Aid To Nations Hurt by Embargo

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Japanese officials attached new conditions today to the financial aid pledge Japan made last week to help Middle Eastern countries hurt by the trade embargo on Iraq.
The shift is likely to slow the rate at which the support is delivered and make it contingent on contributions from other countries, principally the United States.
''Japan should make a significant contribution in this field, but there is a limit to what any one country can do,'' a senior Finance Ministry official said at a briefing here today for foreign reporters.
''An international network of support might be necessary,'' said the official, who insisted that he not be identified. 
He said that meant that Japan would try not to act on its own, but would seek to be part of an aid consortium that would include the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the United States and other industrial nations.
 
No 'Cash Dispenser Machine'
The comments marked a change in tone from last week, when Government officials said Japan was preparing to move swiftly to offer the equivalent of billions of dollars in financial support to nations that were taking part in the embargo on Iraq and were suffering economically because of it. Principally, the Government was focusing on Jordan, Egypt and Turkey, neighbors of Iraq and Kuwait.
The remarks thus appeared to be an attempt to temper global expectations about how much Japan would contribute and the terms under which it would make loans, grants or other forms of aid available. Japan has initiated programs to help recycle the vast trade surpluses achieved in recent years, but it has fought against developing an image as a ''cash dispenser machine'' for aid, as one official here put it.
Japan's Constitution restricts its use of military forces in international disputes, and the Government has been engaged in a fierce internal debate over how it can directly take part in the embargo without changing the law or jeopardizing political support at home.
A number of officials had seized on financial aid to the ailing Middle Eastern countries as a form of support not restricted under the law, but which would mark a positive Japanese contribution. Those officials had said that a package of low-interest loans and other forms of aid would be announced shortly to demonstrate Japan's commitment.
 
Scaling Back Expectations
On Wednesday, Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu is expected to disclose his long-awaited package of measures for bolstering the multinational forces opposing Iraq. But a number of officials have said it would be just a preliminary step, and would include little of the financial aid pledged earlier.
Press reports here have said the other measures are expected to be: sending medical personnel to the Persian Gulf region, refugee aid and transportation equipment, perhaps chartered jets and ships. The second part of the package, the financial measures, is now expected to be incomplete and contingent on talks with other countries.
Japan is more dependent on Middle Eastern oil than any other industrialized nation, getting slightly more than 70 percent of its crude from the region. Shortly after Iraq invaded Kuwait, Japan froze the assets of the two countries and decided to join the trade embargo. Getting beyond those initial steps has proven difficult.
The note of caution sounded by the Finance Ministry official today irritated some in the Foreign Ministry, who had hoped for a quicker and more decisive response to promote Japan's image as a leading player in international issues.
''If we miss this wave, the wave will be gone,'' said a Foreign Ministry official, who backed a swifter commitment by the Government. ''This is frustrating for us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (74%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (89%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); REFUGEES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



860 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Virginia Beach Journal;
City and Black Students Plan Holiday Together

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VIRGINIA BEACH, Va., Aug. 28

 BODY:
A year after racially charged rioting on the waterfront here left a hundred stores looted, dozens of people injured and scores more arrested, this resort city says it is trying to do the right thing.
On Labor Day weekend last year, thousands of black students from college campuses all over the East Coast converged on Virginia Beach for a final summer fling, much as they had on Labor Day weekends stretching back to the late 1970's.
But what started out as a youthful good time suddenly turned into a violent confrontation between blacks and whites when the crowd swelled to more than 50,000, twice as many as in years past, and many of them too young or too old to be in college. More than a thousand state troopers and National Guardsmen were summoned to stop the looting and disperse the crowds. 
The violent images on television screens focused attention on the city and racial problems here, and later a citizens' study panel cited failures of leadership and communication as causes of the trouble.
A year ago the city had almost no plans for handling or entertaining 50,000 young people. Indeed, officials had stated flatly that the resort, predominantly white and predominantly family-oriented, did not want to be host to a huge fraternity bash.
But now, with its economic future no longer solidly assured and its racial reputation tarnished, fairly or unfairly, Virginia Beach is taking a far different approach. Since last Labor Day prominent blacks and whites here, along with student leaders from a dozen black colleges in the East, have been talking frankly, acknowledging wrongs on both sides and laying careful plans to make the coming holiday one to be remembered for fun under the sun.
''This is a social experiment of great import for this country at this time, given the tensions that exist everywhere,'' said Mayor Meyera E. Oberndorf. ''The city and the students have accepted that they have co-responsibility for the weekend's outcome.''
The preparations have gone far beyond philosophical discussions about cultural differences and youthful desires. Where once the city planned no entertainment for student visitors, this year there will be parades, swimsuit contests, dances, job fairs, football and basketball games and music, music, music. The events will be scattered up and down the boardwalk and elsewhere in the city to hold down congestion and the size of crowds.
''Things are much different this year,'' said Arthur Jarrett, the student body president at nearby, predominantly black Norfolk State University, who is a major figure in preparations for the holiday.
''We've compromised, reached a middle ground,'' he added. ''No one has gotten all they wanted. Some people on both sides are still grumbling, and I'm not saying that nothing bad can happen. But the community has basically come together and I think things are going extremely well.''
While the biggest question hanging over the 1990 Labor Day weekend is whether the violence of 1989 can be avoided, there is also a question of just how many black students will come. Student groups in Washington, Baltimore and a few other college towns in the East have announced they will boycott the celebration.
''Virginia Beach may have come up with solutions for Labor Day 1990, but a lot of us don't think Virginia Beach has really changed in its heart,'' said Damita Coats, a senior at Howard University in Washington who is helping plan one boycott.
The boycotts may indeed have some impact. Thus far, only about 40 percent of the resort's hotel rooms are booked, about half the number usually booked at this point.
''But boycotts aren't really the issue,'' said Andrew S. Fine, a lawyer and developer who helped head the Laborfest planning committee. ''The issue was whether the city could come together and respond rationally, and it certainly did, with a few exceptions. Whatever happens, we accepted this as a huge test of our will to do what's right.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA BEACH (VA)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); RIOTS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (75%); BASKETBALL (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR



861 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
2 Roads Diverge in Task Of Measuring Poverty

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Poverty, like beauty, resides in the eye of the beholder. Many Americans think they know it when they see it, but definition has proved difficult.
Intellectuals in universities, research centers and Government offices are now devising, or refining, two different yardsticks for defining poverty. One seeks to provide an overall measurement of poverty in America. The other tries to measure a smaller, though more severe, type of impoverishment that engulfs ''the underclass.'' 
Both are esoteric arts, undertaken by a covey of specialized researchers using census data and computer models. They spew pages of numbers as scintillating as a tax table and talk in obscure journals of coefficients and standard deviations. Why bother? At bottom, the effort to measure poverty is an attempt to measure how the idea of America is working, and the distance between its promise and its present. Moreover, it has practical implications for Government in making laws, budgets and regulations for the distribution of benefits.
As Patricia Ruggles, a leading expert, puts it, poverty statistics play ''an important role in shaping our perceptions both of the extent of real economic need and of the characteristics of those who are most deserving of our help.''
While related, the attempt to measure poverty in general is a very different undertaking from the effort to measure a specific underclass. The first concentrates exclusively on economics; the second often involves attempts to measure not just money but behavior, like extended joblessness or criminal misdeeds.
The tool for measuring poverty in general is a contentious concept, the poverty line, that was devised in the 1960's. The formula is grounded in groceries: it took the Agriculture Department's recommendations for the minimum amount of healthful food consumption, calculated the cost, and, noting that most people spent a third of their income on food, multiplied it by three. In 1969, the Government declared all Americans who earn less to be officially poor. Each year since, it has simply raised the line to account for inflation.
But many liberals say the formula underestimates the number of poor because it does not take account of changes in spending; specifically, the rising proportion that goes to housing and child care. Some conservatives contend that the current standard may exaggerate the extent of poverty because it fails to take into consideration benefits like food stamps, Medicaid and subsidized housing.
The attempt to define and measure the American underclass is a newer art and one that has produced no official Government standard. To many specialists, the underclass is a group of persistently poor inner-city residents who are most likely to become school dropouts, drug addicts, teen-age parents or criminals.
Some emphasize location as the major concept and have tried to measure the number of poor people living in neighborhoods where many others are poor. Others, like Isabel V. Sawhill at the Urban Institute, emphasize behavior as the crucial concept, and have tried to measure the number of people living in areas characterized by high dropout rates, unemployment, welfare dependency and households headed by women.
Still others argue that measuring behavior may confuse cause and effect and that the focus instead should be on the duration of poverty.
Nonetheless, some consensus is emerging that places the number of people in the underclass in the area of two million to three million, or less than 10 percent of the nation's poor.
Many people associate the underclass with an image of poverty's seeming intractability. But Prof. Sheldon Danziger, a specialist in poverty policy at the University of Michigan, says the measure in fact offers inspiration. Most poverty, he says, is not so entrenched and ''with housing and food and tax credits, one can do an awful lot for the vast majority of poor people who only lack economic resources.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POVERTY RATES (79%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); STATISTICS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); MEDICAID (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CITY LIFE (60%); CENSUS (56%); NUTRITION (50%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON



862 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Americans Can't Afford to Alienate the Saudis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Aug. 11 military analysis of the problems of a multinational force in Saudi Arabia discusses the great cultural differences between Americans and Arabs, and how our military personnel will have to be extremely conscious of Arab sensibilities. How right you are.
In Vietnam, our troops were given perfunctory lectures on respecting the Vietnamese and their culture, without any defined policy to circumscribe their behavior or limit the resources they were able to expend on their pursuit of pleasure. 
Prime Minister Pham Van Dong of North Vietnam warned American policy makers in a January 1967 interview: ''The more American troops are put into South Vietnam, the more complicated problems they create, something that cannot even be foreseen. . . . The expeditionary corps is entirely upsetting the economy of South Vietnam. There is increasing inflation. People cannot live. And another thing. There is a bad effect on social and cultural life. You have heard it said that Saigon is now a very huge brothel. Even girls of the upper classes are prostitutes to American officers.''
Eventually, the lack of a firm American policy and individual discipline led to overwhelming alienation on the part of our Vietnamese allies, whose hearts and minds we were supposed to win. What had started as a legitimate war against Communist expansion was transformed, through our own incompetence and insensitivity, into an anticolonial war against the new imperialists: us.
''Islamic law,'' you state, ''rigidly enforced in Saudi Arabia, prohibits the possession or consumption of alcohol or pornography (including magazines that many Americans would consider merely racy) and bans the defiling of mosques and holy places.'' Also, ''another possible source of trouble has to do with women. Saudis strongly disapprove of unmarried women and men associating with each other in public.''
Saddam Hussein is attempting to convert his naked act of war against a neighbor into a jihad, or holy war. He has been quoted as saying: ''Rise up against evil, against the foreigner who has trampled our sacred right.''
Now all our personnel in Saudi Arabia have to do is behave like ordinary Americans out on the town on Saturday night, and we can make his wish for a holy war come true.
We are guests in Saudi Arabia; our every action and mode of behavior must reflect our genuine respect for Saudi customs and religion. To do any less is to invite the condemnation and resentment of the entire Arab world and convert our noble efforts to halt this aggression into a bloody jihad that will force us, as in Vietnam, to come home with our tails between our legs.
 
JAMES V. HALL
Garrett Park, Md., Aug. 14, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (98%); VIET NAM (92%); VIETNAM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PROSTITUTION (67%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); 

PERSON: HALL, JAMES V SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 



863 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
A Crescendo In the Concerto Of Competition

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
''This is the Grand Central station of the New York music world,'' Michael Meltzer said. He said this in the Steinway & Sons showroom on West 57th Street, between playing a Scarlatti sonata and telling how the man who invented the windshield wiper and the shock absorber also dreamed up something that made the moving parts inside a grand piano move faster.
Maybe that is true; maybe it is just an artful salesman's perfect pitch. There are more than half a million Steinway pianos out there. Mr. Meltzer, a Steinway salesman since 1984, was playing No. 500,000 - with a modernistic-looking case of East Indian ebony, dyed Swiss pear and something called Bubinga wood. 
On the front lines in the piano wars, everything looks so friendly, so genteel, so expensive. But lately the competition has seemed a bit more intense, at least to sidewalk shoppers who like to look at long grands behind big plate glass windows. Yamaha has opened an ultramodern showroom across 57th Street, slightly to the left of Carnegie Hall. And a dealer selling Bosendorfers, an Austrian brand whose highly polished grands have a few more keys than a Steinway, has set up shop on the Upper East Side.
If only this were as simple as Cadillac versus Mercedes-Benz versus those expensive new Japanese cars. Horsepower can be quantified. Differences in tone cannot.
Steinway has a long list of artists who perform on nothing but Steinways - plain black ones, not like No. 500,000, which has the signatures of dozens of pianists etched into the case: Vladimir Horowitz, Maurizio Pollini and Van Cliburn to the right of the keyboard; Rudolf Serkin, Daniel Barenboim and Elton John (yes, Elton John) to the left.
Steinway is so sensitive about Steinway artists that it sent Yamaha a letter of complaint after Steinway executives got hold of a Yamaha newsletter that they felt implied that some Steinway artists had defected to Yamaha.
Bosendorfer, for its part, lays claim to Frank Sinatra and Stevie Wonder. And the tradition of piano-making.
''The things Steinway is most proud of, we still do,'' said Allan W. Buchman of Classical Keyboard Instruments, the Bosendorfer dealer at 406 East 79th Street.
He is a man who dreams of ''Anything You Can Do, I Can Do Better'' as a theme song. Bosendorfer has hired the designer Hans Hollein to build a rival to No. 500,000.
''We feel the best thing we can do for Steinway is provide viable competition, because it will raise the standards,'' said Mr. Buchman, who was the head technician at the Manhattan School of Music for 12 years. ''We don't want to move into 57th Street. We don't want to push Steinway out of 57th Street. We just want to make the very best possible instrument.''
The Bosendorfer Imperial Concert Grand is the one with the nine extra notes below the 88 on conventional pianos - and the one in the showroom has Leonard Bernstein's signature inside the case. ''The first time you sit down, it's like being at the helm of an ocean liner,'' Mr. Buchman said. The lowest of the extra notes is a C so low it rumbles - a foghorn comes to mind. Almost no music calls for those nine notes. They are there, Mr. Buchman said, to make the others sound better by shoving them closer to the center of the sounding board.
Mr. Buchman claims that Bosendorfer dries the wood that goes into its pianos longer than Steinway does, and uses no fans to speed things along. ''If wood is subjected to forced-air drying,'' he said, ''it disrupts the memory the cells have.'' That ''memory'' is what makes the wood in a Bosendorfer resonate more naturally than the wood in other pianos.
''This is Steinway country, O.K.?'' Mr. Buchman said. ''We're faced with a situation where we have artists who want to perform here and they're afraid.'' He said that he had offered an Imperial - list price $82,000 - to Carnegie Hall for its 100th anniversary season. Carnegie Hall, which is across the street from the Steinway showroom and has a Steinway on the stage, said no thanks. ''If you have an ongoing relationship with quality merchandise and everything is longstanding and positive,'' said Lois Cohn, a spokeswoman for Carnegie Hall, ''why look elsewhere?''
Steinway, pardon the expression, plays down the competition. Peter B. Goodrich, who manages Steinway's concert and artist department, disputes the idea that new Steinways fall short of the old standards.
''The public does love to hear that Steinway and Yamaha are tooth and nail or something,'' said Peter Becker, Steinway's director of retail sales and marketing. ''But, you know, the bottom line is, we have people waiting for Steinways, even in what seems to be a slow economic time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LVB (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3931 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (92%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STEINWAY MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS INC (92%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); STEINWAY & SONS (58%); NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STEINWAY & SONS

SUBJECT: PIANOS; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); 

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (58%); 



864 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: New York City In Violation On Diesel Soot

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD

 BODY:
New York City, already plagued with one of the nation's worst smog and carbon-monoxide problems, is also violating the Federal health standard for the soot and dirt emitted by the diesel engines of buses and trucks, new government data show.
The information is based on a measurement taken in midtown Manhattan along Madison Avenue, one of the busiest bus routes in the city, but a city environmental official said violations would probably be found at other spots in New York where bus and truck traffic is heavy.
The black smoke belching from diesel-powered vehicles - the sight commonly associated with urban air pollution - can produce respiratory problems and has been identified by the Federal Government as a potential cause of cancer. Such particle emissions, many times greater than those produced in gasoline engines, also reduce visibility and smudge buildings with grime. 
The information, collected by a state-operated, street-level monitor at 47th Street and Madison, shows that levels of soot and dirt in the air routinely exceeded health standards during the first six months of this year. The monitor also found violations in 1988 and 1989, the only other years for which data are available. The latest results were made available by the Natural Resources Defense Council, which had requested them from New York State.
''Diesel pollution is one of the worst pollution problems in urban areas,'' said S. William Becker, executive director of State and Territorial Air Pollution Program Administrators, a Washington-based lobbying group. ''It's diesel that more than any other problem gets the attention of the public.''
The new data on soot come as discussions are going on in New York City about using cleaner-burning fuels in vehicles. On Monday, United Parcel Service agreed to convert the engines in some of its Manhattan fleet so that they could operate on fuels other than diesel and gasoline, like methanol and compressed natural gas. Also, the city's Department of Environmental Protection is exploring whether city buses and other city vehicle fleets could also operate on such alternative fuels.
Ozone smog can blanket the entire metropolitan area, but such pollutants as soot particles from diesel engines are more localized. In New York the particles are generated mostly by buses and trucks and are most concentrated where they are trapped by tall buildings. The highest levels are in Manhattan and on busy thoroughfares in other boroughs. The number of diesel-powered trucks and buses in use in New York City grew substantially during the 1980's.
The monitor at Madison Avenue and 47th Street is in a neighborhood that environmental officials say might have the city's worst pollution from diesel engines because of the high number of buses there and the skyscrapers lining the avenue.
Although more are planned, no other street-level monitors are in place around the city, said Dr. Mira Barer, a deputy commissioner for the Department of Environmental Protection. But violations of the Federal health standard for soot particles are likely at other locations that have similar traffic and buildings, she said. Street-level measurements are important because they reflect what people are actually breathing.
New York is the nation's diesel bus capital, said Eric A. Goldstein, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council. The city has more than 5,000 private and public vehicles traveling city roads each day. There are also thousands of diesel-powered trucks that roll through New York.
Diesel engines are popular because they are fuel-efficient and economical. But they emit 30 to 70 times more soot particles than gasoline-powered engines of a similar size, Mr. Goldstein said.
 
Violations Started in '87
For most of the 1970's and 80's, New York City met the Federal health standard for diesel emissions. Violations started to occur after 1987, when the Environmental Protection Agency adjusted its health standard to account more accurately for health risks posed by soot particles. On one day last February, a reading at the Madison Avenue site found levels almost double the national standard. The national standard is 50 micrograms of soot per cubic meter, measured as an annual average.
Until 1987, the Federal environmental agency standard addressed particles of all sizes. But scientists found it was particles less than 10 microns -those with diameters less than one-tenth the width of a human hair - that were riskiest.
When inhaled, the smaller soot particles pass through natural filters in the nose, mouth and throat and may lodge in the lungs. The inhaled particles can irritate or damage the respiratory system, much as ozone and carbon monoxide do. Children, the elderly and people with respiratory disease are more vulnerable to the soot particles than the rest of the population.
 
Steps to Correct Problem
Movement is occurring on both the city and Federal levels to deal with diesel pollution.
New buses purchased by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority must be equipped with tailpipe devices to cut soot emissions, Dr. Barer said. Consideration is being given to attaching the same devices to existing buses, she said.
In Washington, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency recently announced that it would require an 80-percent reduction in sulfur in diesel fuel, beginning Oct. 1, 1993. The Transit Authority now uses such fuel.
The change, in connection with an earlier agency decision to tighten standards for tailpipe emissions for bus and truck diesel engines beginning in 1991, could eventually improve urban air quality. Nationally, the actions will reduce particulates pollution by 90 percent, the environmental agency said.
But Mr. Goldstein was not optimistic about great advances.
''Without additional controls or cleaner-burning fuels, it will be very hard to improve air quality because of the increasing number of diesel-powered vehicles,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heavy bus traffic at Madison Avenue and 47th Street contributes to a chronic diesel-pollution problem that is measured by a street-level monitor, right. Soot and dirt levels exceeded health standards during the first six months of this year. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (53%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (53%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC)

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; DIESEL POWER; BUSES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SOOT; SMOG ; CARBON MONOXIDE SMOG (91%); CARBON MONOXIDE (91%); PARTICULATE MATTER (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); TRUCK SAFETY (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AIR QUALITY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); DIESEL FUEL (77%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); TRUCKING (72%); ALCOHOLS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); NATURAL GAS (63%); CANCER (54%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R



865 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Rinfret Attacks Cuomo's Flights As Free Junkets

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Attacking one of the more cherished spoils of incumbency, Pierre A. Rinfret today demanded that the State Board of Elections investigate Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's use of state aircraft for what Mr. Rinfret described as ''political campaign activities.''
Mr. Cuomo, who is running for a third term, has taken dozens of trips around the state this summer at the taxpayers' expense, planting trees to promote an environmental bond act and handing out economic development checks to many communities.
While those trips would clearly seem to help Mr. Cuomo's standing as a candidate, and while he has taken many more of them this year than he has in non-election years, aides to the Governor said the flights all involved legitimate state business and did not have to be paid for by his campaign.
''He doesn't advocate his own candidacy,'' explained a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, Gary G. Fryer. ''Does he say, 'Vote for me'? Does he say, 'There's an election, and go to the polls'? He does not.'' 
When he starts doing that, Mr. Fryer said, Mr. Cuomo will start paying for use of the plane.
 
Free Fund-Raising Trips
That policy has upset Mr. Rinfret, his Republican opponent, who released a letter to the Board of Elections demanding that Mr. Cuomo at least be forced to pay for those parts of his trip, like fund-raisers, that could clearly be construed to be ''political.''
''I am absolutely astonished by the blatant abuse of taxpayer dollars by Mr. Cuomo as he campaigns throughout the state at public expense,'' Mr. Rinfret said in a prepared statement. ''Cuomo is really taking the taxpayers for a ride with his use of state airplanes, limousines, and personnel on his political junkets.''
Under Mr. Cuomo's policy, even day trips that include appearing at a Democratic fund-raising event can still be paid for entirely with state money if his aides determine that Mr. Cuomo spent most of the working day on official business.
For instance, on Aug. 20 Mr. Cuomo flew on state aircraft to Long Island, where he attended a bill-signing ceremony for environmental laws and met with local officials. That night, he attended a fund-raising dinner in Southampton for Sherrye Henry, a Democratic candidate for the State Senate.
 
No Plans to Pay for Trips
The next day, Mr. Cuomo flew on a state plane to Buffalo, where he toured a General Mills plant, was interviewed by a newspaper reporter, and attended a fund-raising cocktail party with his wife in Cheektowaga, a community near Buffalo.
Mr. Fryer said there were no plans to charge any part of either trip to the campaign, because he said both days involved ''a preponderance of state business.'' But he said he expected that there would be several days during the fall campaign when Mr. Cuomo would pay for his use of the plane.
Records of flights on state aircraft by top state officials, and the bills, are supposed to be compiled quarterly by the State Department of Environmental Conservation, which maintains the state's air fleet. But Arthur Woldt, a department spokesman, said today that he had no records available for any of Mr. Cuomo's flights this year.
 
Stricter Monitoring Is Urged
Reporters and others not employed by the state are often charged a fare equivalent to full-fare coach on a commercial airline when they use a state airplane. A journey to Buffalo, for example, would cost about $300 round trip. But those charges make up only a tiny part of a flight's cost.
Aside from Mr. Rinfret, several groups that scrutinize government, including Common Cause, have asked for stricter monitoring of state planes and helicopters during election years and possible creation of a special billing for any incumbent's use of a plane for a political event.
The state's election law does not mention using state aircraft, although it does require that all free services a candidate receives be reported as income with the Board of Elections. Also, the constitution bans using state property for personal affairs.
A spokesman for the Elections Board, David Flanagan, said Mr. Rinfret's complaint would be reviewed. He had no comment on whether board officials believed it was warranted.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's use of state aircraft referred incorrectly to payment for trips that are partly political or unofficial. During campaigns, his campaign committee or the State Democratic Party will pay at least half the cost on any day that involves such activity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (51%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (51%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); AIRLINES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); BONDS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE A; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MARIO M CUOMO (97%); PIERRE A RINFRET (92%); GARY G FRYER (56%); 



866 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Douglas Manager in Low Profile

BYLINE: By PHIL BERGER

 BODY:
John Johnson, the manager of the heavyweight champion, James (Buster) Douglas, was out of character last week in Columbus, Ohio.
In the past, Johnson has been a feisty and garrulous sort, clearly enjoying his role as the country boy from Red Jacket, W. Va., who against all odds succeeded in the buccaneer business of boxing.
As manager of the sport's most prestigious champion, Johnson appeared to relish his maverick image and talked easily and at length about the pleasures and perils of guiding the heavyweight champion. In often salty language, he railed against perceived enemies and assailed traditional notions of boxing economics, insisting that the fighter deserved the biggest share of the purses since he, and nobody else, absorbed the punches. 
But last week, following a shake-up earlier this summer that saw Johnson and his son, John Jr., move out of the Columbus offices of James (Buster) Douglas Inc., the manager no longer seemed as assertive as he had been.
When a reporter, just arrived in Columbus, called to interview him last Thursday, Johnson said the request had to be cleared by Steve Brener, a publicist working for the Mirage, the Las Vegas, Nev., site of Douglas's first title defense, against Evander Holyfield, on Oct. 25. It was the first time since Douglas won the title six months ago that the talkative Johnson had felt obliged to get permission to speak to the press.
Later, after Brener had cleared him for conversation, Johnson gave his version of the events that led to his exodus from the Douglas Inc. office. But after saying - as Douglas would later - that there were certain philosophical differences about their business aims, he told a reporter, ''Look, if James doesn't want to talk about this, then all I told you is off the record.'' What does it all mean? Just this: Douglas has decided he can speak for himself from now on and has passed the word to Johnson. Where Johnson used to attend to the myriad details of the heavyweight champion's business, Douglas now has longtime friends, Rodney Rogers (as camp coordinator) and Larry Nallie (as financial director), looking after his affairs .
Johnson, who was at Douglas's Thursday night training session and was cordially received by the champion and his co-trainers, John Russell and J. D. McCauley, will continue to get his 23 percent managerial share but less of the spotlight.
''James basically has come into his own, and taken the reins ,'' said Rogers. ''You'll start seeing more of the real James Douglas, the more verbal James Douglas, the more outgoing type.''
Stage Role for Breland Mark Breland, the former welterweight champion, will play the role of a fighter in Clifford Odets's play ''Golden Boy.''
Earlier this month, Breland auditioned for the Trinity Repertory Company of Providence, R.I., which will stage the play in October. Soon after, Dennis Conway, general manager of the theater, said: ''We'd love for him to do it. What it comes to is whether we can negotiate salary.''
Over the weekend, the fighter's manager, Shelly Finkel, said that Breland had agreed to work for scale and would go into rehearsals after Labor Day.
Whether the acting job is a prelude to a career change remains to be seen. The prospect of Breland's retirement was raised in July, after he was knocked out by Aaron Davis in nine rounds in Reno, Nev.
Breland is said to want to continue boxing. Finkel said that he and the fighter would discuss Breland's boxing future this week in Norfolk , Va.
 
Argentine Next for Foreman
George Foreman's next opponent in the 42-year-old heavyweight's bid to extend his 22-fight winning streak will be Walter Masseroni of Argentina on Sept. 25 at the London Arena. Masseroni, 26 years old, had 9 victories, 4 losses and a draw before this year, all in Argentina. A spokesman for the promoter, Frank Warren, said Masseroni's record this year was not available. Taylor-Chavez Again? There's a chance that Meldrick Taylor, the former junior welterweight champion, could end up in a nontitle over-the-weight rematch with Julio Cesar Chavez , the International Boxing Federation-World Boxing Council junior welterweght champion. There were discussions on that possibility last week between Home Box Office and the fighters' handlers. Taylor, who has been having problems making the 140-pound junior welterweight limit, had planned to move up to the welterweight division and challenge Davis, the World Boxing Association champion, and he still might. . . . Pernell Whitaker, the lightweight champion, will be interested in the outcome of the Sept. 22 bout between the I.B.F. junior lightweight champion, Tony Lopez, and the I.B.F. featherweight titleholder, Jorge Paez, in Sacramento, Calif. Whitaker might fight the winner. And, according to the fighter's promoter, Dan Duva, if that man turns out to be Paez, Whitaker could end up with his first million-dollar purse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BUSTER) DOUGLAS INC (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOXING BOXING (90%); 

PERSON: BERGER, PHIL EVANDER HOLYFIELD (55%); 



867 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: To a Child, Staff of Life Is Surely Peanut Butter

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL

 BODY:
LIKE many primordial preferences, personal taste in peanut butter is idiosyncratic.
Some believe that early-childhood experience establishes a lifelong predilection for a sweet or a salty, a creamy or a crunchy peanut butter. Others believe that tastes in peanut butter mature, just as palates seem to, moving from an early yen for the sweet and bland into a yearning for more robust flavors. Others are convinced that an individual's propensity in the peanut butter department is as irrevocable as the color of one's eyes.
''Congenital, absolutely congenital,'' said William F. Buckley, the syndicated columnist whose single attempt at poetry is the sonorous couplet: I know that I shall never see A poem lovely as Skippy's peanut butter. 
But whether cleaving to the early-childhood theory, the progressive development model or the construct of pre-ordained taste in peanut butter, no one argues the national taste for peanut butter.
For decades the spread has carried Americans through childhood as certainly as children have toted peanut butter sandwiches to school. It is an economical, nutritious and convenient food that parents and children can agree on. Recent samplings by a group of three adult food writers and a panel of preschool children showed that preferences in peanut butter can vary from generation to generation. Nevertheless, 85 percent of American homes stock peanut butter, according to the Peanut Advisory Board, a trade group in Atlanta.
Half the peanuts consumed in the United States are eaten in peanut butter, about 800 million pounds a year. That amount could smoothly coat the Grand Canyon, according to the Peanut Advisory Board. It is not clear whether this would be a mere smear or a nice thick coating.
Peanut butter is a $1 billion annual business and it is growing. Mitch Head, executive director of the board, said peanut butter consumption has grown by an average of 5 percent a year for each of the last five years, even as the school-age population has been declining. ''Our research indicates that the growth is coming from senior adults,'' people over 55, Mr. Head said.
A historian of peanut butter, Mr. Head sees a certain poetry in the graying of peanut butter. It was invented, he said, either by an unidentified physician in St. Louis or by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg of Battle Creek, Mich. Dr. Kellogg filed a patent for the ''process of preparing nut meal'' in 1895. That same year, the unsung physician is said to have encouraged the Bayle Food Products Company in St. Louis to produce a similar paste. Both doctors envisioned high-protein food for elderly people.
Mr. Head doesn't claim that pulverized peanuts were the creation of a health-conscious turn-of-the-century American. Peanuts themselves were probably native to Bolivia or Peru, where they were discovered by Spanish explorers. The Spanish carried them to Africa where they were cultivated and used in cooking, Mr. Head said.
While researching them at Tuskegee Institute, George Washington Carver developed 300 uses for peanuts and, in 1925, published 125 peanut recipes, several of which called for peanut pastes that were distant cousins to modern smooth and spreadable peanut butter.
In the early 20th century, improved technology produced an increasingly smooth, gritless peanut butter. By 1928, the addition of hydrogenated vegetable oils was found to keep the oil from separating from the peanut paste. The hydrogenating process was first used commercially by the company that later became Peter Pan. Skippy soon followed. In 1958 Procter & Gamble began producing Jif. Its benchmark advertising campaign - ''Choosy mothers choose Jif'' - established peanut butter as far from geriatric fare; peanut butter had become synonymous with childhood.
It still is. ''Per capita, children are the biggest consumers,'' Mr. Head said. Jif, Skippy and Peter Pan are still the top selling brands, sharing 65 percent of the market.
According to Mr. Head, the boom was precipitated by World War II. ''The Government provided peanut butter to the G.I.'s, they came home with a taste for it and started the baby boom,'' he said.
This could support Mr. Buckley's congenital theory of the origins of personal preference in peanut butter. Yet, it does not rule out the early-childhood-experience theory. C-ration peanut butter and 90 percent of those sold today are hydrogenated, sweetened and salted. Therefore a taste for a sweeter or a smoother spread could be an effect of environment.
Studying adult peanut butter eaters sheds little light on the origins of personal preference. Mr. Head said studies show that most Americans eat peanut butter until their early 20's, stop until they have children of their own and resume until their children have left home. ''They start eating it again in their later years for the exact same reason it was invented, good cheap, easily digestible nutrition,'' he said.
Despite this pattern, adults tend to treat their passion for peanut butter as aberrant, throwback behavior. In a vain effort to divert attention from their lapse, they rely on cute props. There are now 60,000 members in the Peanut Butter Lovers Fan Club that Mr. Head helped establish in 1986. His quarterly newsletter, Spread the News, circulates among 10,000 people. About 2,000 people are expected to attend the club's celebration on Labor Day weekend at Disney World to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the first manufacture of peanut butter in St. Louis.
Other grown-ups bring more serious concerns to bear on peanut butter. Those involved with dietary issues point out that two tablespoons of peanut butter contain about 190 calories, 5 grams of polyunsaturated fat and 3 grams of saturated fat, and that peanuts are a good source of protein.
Adults have also raised questions about aflatoxin, a carcinogen present in some moldy peanuts that was found to damage the livers of laboratory animals. In its September issue, Consumer Reports magazine said it found traces of aflatoxin in all the peanut butters it tested, although it said all its samples had levels below that permitted by the Food and Drug Administration. Based on its studies, the magazine estimated that with ''an intake of one peanut butter sandwich every 10 days, the lifetime risk might be about seven cases of cancer per million consumers.''
Mr. Head said that aflatoxin occurs in nature in various grains and that in the peanut industry the incidence of aflatoxin is below the safety standard set by the Government.
So far, these concerns have not deterred adult peanut butter lovers. And their pattern of consumption appears to prove the developmental theory of peanut butter preference. Generally, grown-ups choose one that best reflects their evolving self image. At the height of the I-am-as-upscale-as-I-can-eat 80's, for instance, Tromply's Peanut Butter Fantasies of Boston made a splash with products like chocolate raspberry and banana crunch.
Then, ''fun'' and ''trendy'' gave way to ''pure'' and ''healthy'' in the nation's food vocabulary, and the pattern spilled over to peanut butter. ''The fastest-growing area is in the all-natural category,'' said Paul Burnish of Kroger Stores in Cincinnati.
Craig Sonksen, owner of the Krema Products Company, in Columbus, Ohio, the nation's oldest peanut butter manufacturer, said a public desire for ''good old-fashioned flavors'' may also be fueling his skyrocketing sales. Krema is still made the way it was 100 years ago, by roasting peanuts, grinding them twice and hand-packing the butter into jars.
Krema, once strictly a regional product, is now sold throughout the Midwest and it is headed for stores nationwide. ''We can't keep it on the shelves,'' said Mr. Sonksen. ''Baby boomers want their babies to have the real thing.'' At least they think they do. In a recent test at The New York Times, three adults who sampled nine peanut butters all ranked a New York store's fresh-ground natural peanut butter No. 1. But opinion diverged when it came to second choice. Although the samples were tasted from unmarked containers, the tasters ranked the peanut butter brand of their childhood or the brand they currently keep at home as a close runner-up. Personal taste in peanut butter can be educated, refined and matured. But backsliding is just a memory away.

GRAPHIC: Drawing; photos: Judges from left: Aya Rodriguez, Jarrell Stewart, Wyatt Ford and Hannah Reitman, right. (pg. C1); drawing; photos: Some of the peanut butter panel expressing their reactions to the various brands tasted. From left: Aya Rodriquez, Jarrell Stewart and Rhyne Redula. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); table showing the consistency, balance, taste and aroma of various brands of peanut butter. (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: JOHN HARVEY BV (51%); PEANUT ADVISORY BOARD (82%); PEANUT ADVISORY BOARD (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEANUT ADVISORY BOARD

SUBJECT: PEANUT BUTTER; DIET AND NUTRITION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FOOD; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POETRY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PEANUT FARMING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); OILS & FATS (78%); AGING (72%); FAMILY (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (71%); POPULATION DECLINE (67%); HISTORY (66%); PATENTS (60%); NUTRITION (60%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY; FABRICANT, FLORENCE; MILLER, BRYAN; O'NEILL, MOLLY



868 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

OIL AND THE MIDEAST
 
Oil prices turned up, with the contract for October delivery rising 97 cents, to $27.88 a barrel, as traders searched for a new balance in the market after the $4 plunge on Monday. [Page D1.]
 
Hundreds of U.S. companies are mobilizing in their own way to deliver everything from bullets to bug spray to the armed forces in the Mideast. For many companies, the military buildup is a chance to reap unexpected profits, though one that many executives said they would just as soon do without. [D1.] 
 
Iran's oil minister asked that the OPEC meeting be postponed by a week to consider alternatives to raising output. [D19.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The former Guinness chairman was sentenced to five years in prison for his role in one of Britain's biggest financial scandals in decades. [D1.]
 
American acquisitions of European companies rose sharply in the second quarter. [D2.]
 
The gap between U.S. imports and exports shrank to its lowest level in six and a half years between April and June, the Commerce Department said. But the improvement was caused largely by cheaper oil imports, which have since disappeared. [D2.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
On front lawns in many California coast cities, the for-sale sign has become almost as common as the palm tree, and to some sellers seemingly as permanent. [A1.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Ernst & Young must pay $8.9 million in actual damages and $10 million in punitive damages to a group of investors. [D1.]
 
Millions of TV viewers are not being counted in the Nielsen ratings while on vacation, according to an ABC survey. [D5.]
 
Oracle's shares fell in heavy trading after the company restated its earnings for three quarters. [D4.]
 
Under a new contract, cable TV in Manhattan is likely to be nearly free of sexually explicit programming. [A1.]
 
The New York Post's owner will seek to cut costs in a meeting he has called next week with union leaders. [B2.]
 
Eleven car rental companies in the New York area were charged with discriminating against drivers under 21. [B3.]
 
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
 
Technology to help planes squeeze more miles out of jet fuel is getting a fresh look from aircraft manufacturers. [D7.]
 
A new personal computer program ''evolves'' the best solution among various models run on spreadsheets. [D7.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stock prices moved ahead slightly on slow volume as some traders took to the sidelines. The Dow gained 3.22, to 2,614.85. [D8.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities fell and interest rates rose. [D14.]
 
The dollar turned mixed in U.S. trading after finishing mostly higher overseas. Gold prices pulled back. [D15.] Grain and soybean futures prices were mixed. [D15.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Wall Street is an odd place, with demand rising as the price goes up. And so it is with a new Salomon security. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
 
How much energy insurance is really enough? Uncle Sam has already socked away 600 million barrels of oil, but the optimal reserve is in question. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Young & Rubicam and Ogilvy & Mather have created little advertising in Moscow after opening offices with great fanfare 18 months ago. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); ORACLE CORP (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DAMAGES (89%); FUTURES (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (73%); GRAIN MARKETS (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (71%); SENTENCING (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); SCANDALS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (64%); JET FUEL (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (54%); ACQUISITIONS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%); 



869 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Mobilizing for Desert Warfare

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
As American soldiers mobilize in the Saudi Arabian desert, hundreds of American companies are mobilizing in their own way to deliver to the armed forces everything from bullets to bug spray. While no one is hoping for a war, many companies have a chance to reap unexpected profit from the military buildup.
One company, Sterling Foods Inc. of San Antonio, received an $8 million contract in March to make 18 million small loaves of bread to be served with soldiers' rations. Now with the movement of American troops to Saudi Arabia, the Pentagon's contract for the bread, which can last several years in sealed pouches, has been greatly expanded.
''It's almost like there's no lid on it; make as many as you can,'' said Roy D. Terracina, president of the privately owned company. ''We are running two full shifts, six days a week. It's good for business, yeah, but it's also kind of scary.'' 
 
Scramble by Pentagon
Businesses that supply the armed forces stand to benefit immediately and in the long run from the Middle Eastern conflict. Companies like Sterling Foods and Edcar, a Puerto Rico-based uniform company, will gain first from the short-term burst in sales as the Pentagon hastily scrambles to feed, dress and equip tens of thousands of soldiers for life in the desert.
In the last two weeks, Tyson Foods of Springdale, Ark., has supplied 240,000 pounds of frozen chicken to the armed forces. As is the case with other large companies, though, that amount represents a small amount of Tyson's business.
Still, as of last week, the Pentagon had bought 150,000 bottles of sunscreen lotion for $219,000; 6,000 boxes of lip balm for $99,000; 230,000 cans of foot powder for $80,000, and 40,000 cases of insect repellant for $76,400. The bill for canteen covers came to $470,000. And then there were more than 70,000 pairs of sunglasses, 100,000 pairs of goggles, 100,000 sewing kits and 17,000 handkerchiefs.
In the long run, analysts and executives say, military contractors and weapons suppliers will gain. That is because Pentagon spending will very likely not be trimmed as sharply as was being planned only a few months ago, when the cold war ended and it seemed peace was breaking out all over.
Experts say the Middle East conflict will not immediately lead to new orders for major weapon systems, partly because big military weapons purchases in the 1980's left the nation well equipped. ''You could go to war with Iraq for a year without buying a thing,'' said Lawrence J. Korb, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
So the companies that will see the most new business at first are those that make items like ammunition, spare parts and military clothing. Those goods will be used up more quickly than they would have been before troops were deployed overseas.
Some of the biggest increases in business have gone to companies that make uniforms needed for desert combat or chemical warfare.
The Pentagon has not had anyone making desert battle uniforms since 1986, and many of the soldiers were sent to Saudi Arabia in camouflage outfits designed to blend into European forests or Asian jungles. So two companies in Puerto Rico, Edcar and Propper International, are rushing to turn out 75,000 desert uniforms by October.
 
Protection Against Chemicals
Before Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, Sac and Fox Industries Inc., owned by the Sac and Fox Indians, was one of four companies with contracts to make chemical warfare uniforms. Now, with concerns about Iraq's possible use of chemical weapons, the Pentagon cannot get the protective gear fast enough.
''I'm supposed to be making 2,000 pairs a day, but I'm only making close to 500,'' said Louise Fields, plant manager at Sac and Fox's plant in Idabel, Okla., although she said her sewers were working 52 hours a week. Even though the company is producing green forest-camouflage suits instead of tan desert ones, the Pentagon is ''tickled to death to get them,'' she said.
As a result of the activity the stock prices of two publicly traded small companies that specialize in military equipment have climbed rapidly. They are Survival Technology of Bethesda, Md., which makes an antidote for some nerve gases, and Engineered Support Systems in St. Louis, which makes decontamination equipment needed by troops facing chemical weapons. $41.5 Million for Food Food suppliers can also expect more business. Already the Pentagon has bought 500 tons of fresh fruits and vegetables and spent $41.5 million on meat and other food, according to the Defense Personnel Support Center in Philadelphia. The center acts as the Pentagon's main agency for coordinating the purchases of food and clothing for troops.
But in some cases, what appears to be an oasis of new business is actually a mirage. The bottled water concession in the desert would seem to be a great opportunity, but the Pentagon insists it is not actually buying that much water, and is instead relying on tap water, supplemented by desalinization plants it is building in Saudi Arabia.
Some of the first units to go to Saudi Arabia did buy bottled water because they were in a hurry, said Frank Johnson, a spokesman for the Defense Personnel Support Center. That water is being replaced with locally available water, but soldiers continue to use the old bottles as containers, making it appear to television viewers that huge quantities of mineral water are being consumed.
The water problem did provide a relatively small order for the Wisconsin Pharmacal Company of Jackson, Wis. It just received a $147,00 order for 260,000 bottles of its Potable Aqua water purification tablets.
 
Bad for the Bottom Line
Sometimes, what appears to be a bonanza can even be bad for the bottom line. Moyco Industries Inc. of Philadelphia had a contract to supply one million cans of its Itch-a-way foot powder to the armed forces over the course of a year. Now the Pentagon wants the cans all at once, forcing the company to add overtime costs to speed up production.
''It's bid at a price that I can't economically afford to go overtime,'' said Frank Palm, sales manager of the company. He said that after he appealed the Pentagon agreed to cover the extra costs of accelerated production.
But for many specialized military contractors, the increase promises to stave off severe cutbacks, even possible closings, that were on the way.
''We could have been looking at a layoff of some people had this not come along,'' said Keith Hane, general manager of the hand protection division at Siebe North Inc. in Charleston, S.C., The company, a subsidiary of Siebe P.L.C. of Great Britain, makes vinyl gloves to protect soldiers from chemical attacks. But Siebe's factories have been operating in recent years at a rate that barely kept them in business.
 
A Second Wind for Some
The same is true of three companies that make rations, which the Army now calls M.R.E.'s, or meals, ready to eat.
The Pentagon had planned to cut its M.R.E. orders to 2.2 million cases next year, from 3.1 million this year. That would have made it impossible for all of the companies to stay in business, said Laura Jansen, president of one of them, Cinpac Inc. of Cincinnati. But on Friday, even as she was being interviewed, Ms. Jansen received a facsimile transmission from the Pentagon saying it would increase its purchases for next year to 3.4 million cases.
''Is this a change or a stay of execution?'' Ms. Jansen asked. Like other contractors, she said she hoped the Middle East crisis would convince the Pentagon that it needed to sustain its suppliers, even through times of peace. But she is not sure that will be done.
 
An Economic Stimulant
The mobilization of industry in times of war has often been an economic stimulant and a sustained rise in military spending and in industrial production by related industries this time would do the same, many economists say.
''What it will actually do to the economy near term is to help prevent a recession,'' said Allen Sinai, chief economist for The Boston Company. He still predicts a mild recession later this year, but not as severe as it would have been without the increased military spending.
But there are forces at work this time that might counteract a large part of the economic gains.
One is the huge Federal budget deficit that will be worsened by increases in military spending, hurting the economy more in the long run. The other is that the rise in oil prices caused by the Middle East conflict, if sustained, will hurt the economy.
Airlines and shipping companies, for instance, are leasing planes and ships to the Pentagon to ferry troops and supplies to the Middle East. But that income has been offset by higher fuel costs, and could be further dampened by a decline in trade and tourism that would result from a recession.
 
Not Really Good News
Many analysts are still saying that the Defense Department's budget will continue to be cut, and call the current developments not really good news for the military industry, only less bad news.
''Right now we're still operating under the assumption that the defense budget will be reduced in the 1990's in a big way,'' said David Hensley, acting director of the business forecasting project at the University of California at Los Angeles. ''It will be unlikely that the 20,000 aircraft industry layoffs announced for the second half of this year will be reversed.''
Still, individual weapons programs and companies could benefit. The C-17 cargo plane, built by McDonnell Douglas, might now be saved from scheduled cutbacks because the Middle East crisis pointed out a shortage of airlift capacity, said Lawrence M. Harris, military industry analyst at Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards in Los Angeles. The company's F-15 fighter might also receive extra orders, he said.
Raytheon, which makes the Patriot missile system being used in Saudi Arabia, could also benefit, as could General Dynamics, which might see more orders for its M-1 tank, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Even though Sac and Fox Industries of Oklahoma is producing green forest camouflage suits instead of tan desert ones, the Pentagon cannot get the protective gear fast enough. (Steve Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. D1); Chart: Companies producing military equipment for American soldiers in Saudi Arabia (pg. D19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (54%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (54%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (54%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (56%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); ARMS TRADE (87%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DESERTS (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); FROZEN FOODS (71%); UNIFORM STORES (71%); POULTRY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW



870 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Oil Reserve: Big Is Beautiful

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
HOW much energy insurance is really enough?
Uncle Sam has already socked away 600 million barrels of oil - 75 days' worth of imports -in the nation's strategic petroleum reserve. And an interagency government study, completed in February, estimated that the likely benefits of yet another 150 million barrels, to reach the current target of 750 million barrels, would exceed the costs.
But setting targets by such calculations, argues Philip Verleger, an energy specialist at the Institute for International Economics, is ''like using a micrometer to measure a pillow.'' The value of the reserve as a deterrent to panic, Mr. Verleger believes, depends as much on soft perceptions as on hard economics. And with a quarter of the world's oil production capacity within range of Iraq's MIG-29's, a bigger reserve is looking better and better. 
To economists the size of the optimal oil reserve turns on a handful of variables. Best guesses must be made about the likely magnitude and duration of future supply disruptions, and how temporary shortages would affect the gross national product. The costs of buying and storing more oil are then weighed against the benefits of extending emergency supplies. Avoiding a $100 billion disruption that has a 1 percent chance of occurring next year would, for example, be worth $1 billion.
Such analysis, which the Administration is using to justify its reluctance to go beyond 750 million barrels, can be misleadingly precise. No one really knows, for example, whether it would take a $5-a-barrel or a $10-a-barrel price increase to tip the economy into recession. No one can know because much depends on how the Federal Reserve responded to the shock. Nor can the long-term cost of stockpiling oil be calculated accurately. If the price of oil were to increase each year by as much as the interest on the money for the stockpile, this cost would be nil.
But there are yet more fundamental reasons to treat the cost-benefit calculation with a grain of salt. Once ordinary supply patterns are disrupted, the amount of oil needed to keep the market in one piece depends on perceptions of both the Government's capacity to replace the lost fuel and its willingness to sell enough to prevent price inflation. Thus while more oil is undoubtedly better than less, the relationship between the size of the reserve and the market's response to a crisis is as foggy as spring in Kennebunkport, Me.
In the first few days of the Kuwait crisis, with about four million daily barrels lost to the market, prices barely budged. But the Administration, reportedly worried that a quick release from the reserve would give Saudi Arabia an excuse not to increase production, declared that it was saving the oil to cover ''physical shortages.'' Once the market absorbed that ambiguous message, prices began to dance to the rhythm of the war drums. For Mr. Verleger, the lesson is clear. America's 600 million barrels, combined with another 300 million to 400 million barrels held by other oil importing nations, would probably be enough to cover any but the most severe disruption. But with a reserve in this range, there will always be a rationale for not dipping into it. Mr. Verleger would thus opt for a stockpile of two billion barrels - enough ''so even President Bush wouldn't hesitate to use it.''
Purchased outright, another 1.4 billion barrels would cost tens of billions. But the Administration and some Congressional leaders are intrigued by the economist's favorite alternative: leasing it.
An exporter with very low production costs -like Saudi Arabia - might be persuaded to deliver oil to the American reserve in return for a modest annual fee. Simply moving a tiny fraction of Saudi Arabia's quarter-trillion barrels from one storage site to another would not affect the market value of Saudi oil in the long term; the Saudis would still own the oil and get the eventual proceeds. But Washington would gain control over its disposition - and thus a lever to dampen oil shocks.
Leasing would obviously serve American interests if the rent were low enough. And the rent that ought to satisfy the Saudis would be low indeed. It would cost, at most, $5 a barrel to produce and transport a barrel of Saudi crude to a storage site in Louisiana. Thus the cost to the Saudis would be the interest lost on the $5 investment - no more than, say, 50 cents annually.
In fact, Mr. Verleger believes that it would be in the Saudis' interest to absorb the full cost of a larger American stockpile. After all, moving a $25 barrel of oil out of the reach of Saddam Hussein (and the Iranian mullahs) ought to be worth 50 cents a year to the desert royals.
If you doubt it, consider how much the Kuwait princes might now wish they had paid to have an extra $30 billion or $40 billion in liquid assets tucked away in Louisiana. Oil, as the G.I.'s now hunkering down in the Saudi heat are learning, makes strange bedfellows.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; RESERVES (NATURAL RESOURCES); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); INFLATION (76%); RECESSION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER PHILIP VERLEGER (83%); 



871 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Foreign Trade Deficit Declined by 14% in Quarter

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
The gap between United States imports and exports shrank to its lowest level in six and a half years between April and June, the Commerce Department said today, but the improvement was largely caused by cheaper oil imports that have since shot up in price.
The nation's total deficit in trade with the rest of the world fell 14 percent, to $22.6 billion in the quarter, compared with $26.3 billion in the first three months of the year. It was the lowest quarterly deficit since a $21.3 billion shortfall in the fourth quarter of 1983. 
The nation's trade performance has been improving steadily with record exports in the past several quarters, but analysts warned that the shock of higher oil prices may set back progress in the second half of the year.
 
Higher Oil Prices
Since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait Aug. 2, oil prices have moved violently, rising 50 percent to a seven-year high of $32.35 a barrel before dropping sharply this week. Several members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are expected to raise production, which should help stabilize prices.
The Commerce Department said the average price of imported oil fell from $19.47 in the first quarter to $15.81 in the second quarter - a price level that is unlikely to be repeated.
''Oil prices are going to take some of the glow off this report because it represents the situation pre-oil shock,'' said Jean Sundrla, an economist with the Washington forecasting firm Evans Economics Inc. ''Definitely, the trade balance has been moving in the right direction, but these numbers are about to be hit hard by higher oil prices.''
 
Peak of $41 Billion
The United States quarterly trade deficit, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis that excludes military trade, peaked at $41 billion in the third quarter of 1987.
Since then, a weaker dollar and cheaper oil have made United States goods cheaper for foreigners, increasing American exports. In addition, the lower oil prices have cut the value of imports.
Total exports in the second quarter reached a record $96.7 billion, up from $96.3 billion in the first three months this year and higher than the $91.1 billion in last year's second quarter.
Imports fell between April and June to $119.3 billion, from $122.6 billion in the first quarter, though they were roughly equal to the value of imports in the second quarter of 1989.
 
Biggest Import Component
But the improvement in imports was accounted for entirely by cheaper oil, as oil imports fell to $12.1 billion from $15.6 billion in the first quarter. Non-petroleum imports were up slightly, to $107.2 billion from $106.9 billion.
The United States deficit with Japan increased slightly, to $10.4 billion from $10.3 billion in the first quarter. It was down, however, from $12.2 billion in last year's second quarter.
The deficit with Canada, the United States' largest trading partner, widened to $1.9 billion in the second quarter, from $1.7 billion in the first three months this year, but was down from a $2.3 billion deficit in last year's second quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (76%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 



872 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: American Acquisitions In Europe Up Sharply

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
American acquisitions of European companies, led by the purchase by Philip Morris of the Swiss chocolate maker Jacobs Suchard, rose sharply in the second quarter after a sluggish performance in the first three months of the year.
The 53 deals, up from 37 in the first quarter, showed that American companies were still positioning themselves for European economic unity, scheduled for late 1992, by getting a foothold in Britain and on the Continent. The total value of the 17 transactions for which prices were reported was $5.5 billion. 
Other data show, however, that total acquisitions by American companies worldwide slowed slightly in the first six months of the year.
 
One Big Deal
With the Jacobs Suchard deal worth nearly $4 billion, or more than two-thirds the quarterly total of all United States deals in Europe, the value of reported American acquisitions in the second quarter was the second highest in the last 18 months.
Without the Suchard deal, the value of acquisitions, although up in the second quarter, was not as strong when compared with other quarters also adjusted for removal of large deals. Nevertheless, the number of second-quarter deals was far greater than in the first quarter and more than the average quarterly pace of the last six quarters.
''It definitely is not evidence of a slowing down,'' said Mark Dixon, editor of Translink's European Deal Review, which compiles the merger and acquisition data. ''If anything, it is evidence of a speeding up.''
According to Translink, American, Japanese and European companies were involved in a record 394 mergers or acquisitions in Europe in the second quarter. The total value of the deals in which prices were reported was 17,847 European currency units - an E.C.U. is a basket of European currencies - just below the record 17,933 E.C.U.'s in deals in the third quarter of last year.
Because the dollar has weakened against major European currencies since last year, the dollar value of the acquisitions rose to $21.7 billion in the second quarter, compared with $19.6 billion in the third quarter of 1989.
The Jacobs Suchard deal, at about $3.8 billion, accounted for 68.9 percent of the total value of the American deals in the second quarter (17 percent of all the deals) in which prices were reported. It was the largest single deal in the last 18 months. Switzerland is not one of the 12 countries in the European Economic Community, but Jacobs Suchard gives the Philip Morris Companies access to the community because of the large business it does there.
The remaining 16 priced American deals in the quarter totaled $1.7 billion. The largest of these was a $506 million purchase by the GTE Corporation of Thom Lighting in Britain.
While this $1.7 billion was more than twice the $731.7 million in deals during the anemic first quarter, the level was still below other recent quarters. The total of all deals for the fourth quarter of 1989 was $4.2 billion; the third quarter was $7 billion, and the average of all deals in the first two quarters of 1989 was almost $2 billion.
The Translink data also show that the Japanese continue to be relatively small players in Europe. Japanese companies ranked 10th on the list of acquirers there in the second quarter. Their 27 European deals in the first six months of the year, with a reported value of $924.6 million, were about the same as last year.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about American acquisitions in Europe included an incorrect report from Translink's European Deal Review about a transaction between the GTE Corporation and Thorn Lighting in Britain. While GTE is discussing the acquisition of Thorn Lighting, no agreement has been reached.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (60%); VZ (NYSE) (60%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (60%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (60%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ACQUISITIONS (90%); MERGERS (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



873 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Cummins Engine Slows Production

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ind., Aug. 28

 BODY:
The Cummins Engine Company said it would reduce engine assembly to one shift at its headquarters operation here. Cummins said North American demand for heavy-truck engines had significantly declined because of the prevailing economic uncertainty and the Persian Gulf crisis.
The company recently took other measures to reduce costs, including voluntary layoffs and shutdowns of its Columbus plant on July 20 and Aug. 10. A shutdown is also scheduled for Friday. The Columbus plant previously operated two shifts, a spokeswoman said. Cummins has many similar engine assembly plants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMI (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (69%); 

COMPANY: CUMMINS INC (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUMMINS ENGINE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLUMBUS (IND)

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (85%); 



874 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Dow Edges Up 3.22 Points on Slow Volume

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stock prices moved ahead slightly yesterday on slow volume as some investors and traders took to the sidelines. Many said they were waiting for further signs as to where oil prices and the Middle East crisis might be heading.
The price of crude oil moved ahead by about $1 a barrel yesterday, to $27.88. But traders argued that while oil seemed to be the key for the short term, now was not the time to put money in the market - particularly after the Dow Jones industrial average has bounced back to regain 131 of the 173 points it lost in three days last week. 
The Dow ended the day at 2,614.85, up 3.22.
Trading volume slowed to 127.65 million shares, the lowest in two weeks, and down from 160.2 million the day before. Advances narrowly outstripped declines 837 to 664. Three stocks touched new highs, but 66 hit new lows.
 
New Low for Cummins Engine
One was Cummins Engine, which traded as high as 55 1/2 this year. It sank yesterday to a new low of 40 1/8, ending the day at 40 1/2, down 7/8. The company said economic uncertainty and the situation in the Middle East had accelerated the decline in demand for truck engines and that it cut plant operations in Columbus, Ind., to one shift.
The mood of the market is ''wait and see,'' said Ronald J. Hill, investment strategist for Brown Brothers Harriman.
''We're still at risk in the Middle East,'' he said, ''and potential developments could still send oil prices higher again. So long as that possibility remains, you have a ceiling on how high stock prices will go.''
The market's strength, although slight, seemed concentrated in the big-name blue chips and to a slightly greater extent in the smaller stocks in the Nasdaq over-the-counter market and on the American Stock Exchange.
While the Dow rose 12-hundredths of a percent, the broader Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose barely one-tenth of a point to 321.34. But the Nasdaq composite index rose 1.59 points to 382.86 and the Amex market-value index rose 1.05 points to 321.78.
 
Cautious Optimism
Caution, or perhaps cautious optimism, seem to be the market bywords for the present. Traders adopted an attitude that now might be the time to buy on weakness. Many hunted for bargains, while others took profits.
Among the Dow industrials, most changes were relatively small because of the small change in the Dow. Even so, General Motors headed the Big Board list of the 10 most-active stocks, rising 1 1/8, to 40 1/4, on 1.7 million shares.
A.T.& T., another big Dow stock, fell 1, to 32 1/8, on 1.3 million shares, and Procter & Gamble rose 1 1/8, to 77. The only two other Dow stocks to show a point or more change were Chevron, which rose 1 1/8, to 75 5/8, and Texaco, which rose 1 3/4, to 62 3/4.
Other oil shares also registered strong gains. Royal Dutch rose 1 3/4, to 80 3/4; ARCO 1 7/8, to 134 1/8; British Petroleum 2 1/2, to 81 1/2; Amoco 1 3/8, to 55 3/4; Pennzoil 1 1/4, to 77 1/2, and Amerada Hess 1, to 52 3/8.
Companies that serve the oil producers also advanced briskly. Schlumberger climbed 1 1/4, to 63 1/4; Kerr McGee 1, to 47 3/4 and McDermott 1 1/4, to 27 1/4.
 
Weak Insurance Group
In a weak insurance group, General Re, a leading reinsurance company, fell 3 5/8, to 69, a new low, in brisk trading. Analysts said the reinsurance market might not turn profitable for a year.
On Nasdaq, In-Store Advertising plunged 7 1/2, to 7 1/4, in heavy trading after it announced that revenues this year would not come close to analysts' forecasts.
Although many foreign markets advanced, the Dow fell 23 points almost from the opening bell yesterday, seesawing its way back up again, then back down and back up again.
 
Recession Fears
Overhanging the market most of the day was strong Wall Street sentiment that while the situation in the Middle East had not deepened into a shooting war, the market's basic weakness was still the developing recession. That, in turn, led many investors to feel that further weakness could be developing.
Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trading, said that buying and selling programs continued for most of the day but that the net effect was to lift the Dow barely 10 points. In the biggest move of the day, a 12-minute series of buying programs starting around 12:40 raised the Dow just 7.5 points, Birinyi said. ----World Markets Mixed By Reuters The world's stock markets turned in a mixed performance yesterday, with Japanese and British shares rising and German and French markets turning lower.
In Tokyo, stocks continued their broad advance, picking up from Monday. Falling oil prices and a stronger yen fueled advances but persistent market rumors of trouble in the Persian Gulf capped gains.
The 225-share Nikkei average was up 569.00 points, or 2.26 percent, to 25,710.76 after gaining 976 on Monday. But at the midday recess today, the average lost almost 453 points, or 1.76 percent, to 25,257.93.
In London, after a long holiday weekend, shares advanced sharply after Monday's gains elsewhere. Volume was light. The Financial Times index ended up 39.7 points at 2,126.1.
In Frankfurt, profit taking knocked shares sharply lower after Monday's record 6 percent rise. The DAX 30-share index of leading West German shares ended off 36.91 at 1,617.89.
Share prices also fell in Paris after previous strong gains. The market waited for a new sense of direction with traders nervous and volumes thin. The CAC-40 index closed 19.14 points lower, at 1,680.58 after Monday's record rise of more than 5 percent.
In Zurich, shares fell in active trading as uncertainty about the Gulf crisis and profit taking combined to bring prices down. The all-share Swiss Performance Index closed 17.3 points lower at 1,006.8.
Hong Kong prices climbed sharply after rallies in New York and Tokyo, closing near the day's peak. The Hang Seng index surged 160.93, or 5.5 percent, to 3,078.94.

GRAPHIC: Favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMI (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (70%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CUMMINS INC (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



875 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Grain and Soybeans Mixed; Livestock Prices Are Down

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Grain and soybeans futures prices were mixed yesterday, and livestock and pork futures fell.
Analysts said traders were taking a wait-and-see attitude after Monday's sharp decline of prices in the grain market. The selloff was tied to the drop in crude oil and precious metals prices. 
''There was very little action in the stocks, oil and precious metals, so the grains traded both sides of the market,'' said Jerry Zusel, an analyst with the Balfour Maclaine Corporation in Chicago.
Grain and soybean prices were pushed higher last week on fears of war in the Middle East and fears of inflation in the United States, he said.
''People are watching events in the Middle East,'' Mr. Zusel said. ''If we get a new spate of news on a negative note, then grain prices will rise again. Otherwise grains will be on the defensive.''
The latest state crop reports indicate the condition of corn and soybeans has improved because of hot, dry weather. Prices are also being pressured by a lack of export demand.
Wheat was 1 3/4 cents lower to 1 1/2 cents higher, with September at $2.79 3/4 a bushel; corn was 1 1/4 cent lower to 1 3/4 cents higher, with September at $2.53 3/4 a bushel; oats were 3 1/2 cents to 5 cents lower, with September at $1.08 1/2 a bushel; soybeans were 3 cents lower to 1 1/4 cents higher, with September at $6.19 3/4 a bushel.
Livestock and pork futures were lower on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as profit taking set in after Monday's price climb.
Sluggish retail demand for beef weighed on livestock futures as expections for lower cash hog prices pushed pork futures lower.
Live cattle were 0.30 cent lower to 0.15 cent higher, with October at 76.65 cents a pound; feeder cattle were 0.02 cent to 0.25 cent lower, with August at 88.57 cents a pound; hogs were 0.13 cent to 0.77 cent lower, with October at 48.45 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were 1.80 cents to 2 cents lower, with February at 52.37 cents a pound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (71%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BALFOUR MACLAINE CORP (71%); CME GROUP INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GRAIN; PRICES; LIVESTOCK; SOYBEANS AGRICULTURAL PRICES (94%); FUTURES (94%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); MEATS (78%); OATS MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PORK (78%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); BEEF (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); FROZEN FOODS (62%); 

PERSON: JERRY ZUSEL (76%); 



876 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Japan Promises Grants and Food, But Lack of Arms Aid Nettles U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Japan unveiled a long-awaited program on Wednesday night to help finance the international effort against Iraq, but the package drew unusual criticism from American officials for the absence of direct tangible aid to the military buildup in the Persian Gulf.
The package includes an unspecified amount of loans and grants to Egypt, Turkey and Jordan, the dispatching of 100 medical specialists to the region, and a pledge to supply refrigeration equipment, water and other goods to help soldiers cope with the desert heat.
Officials said the aid program might ultimately amount to billions of dollars, but that any estimate would be vague because Tokyo plans long negotiations on the terms of loans and grants and the specific projects to be financed.
The Finance Ministry said last week that Japan would provide financial aid to countries hit hard by a loss in revenue because of the gulf crisis. But this week it stipulated that such help would be granted only in coordination with other countries and the International Monetary Fund, which is already pressing Egypt to adopt difficult austerity measures. 
These requirements would almost certainly delay the aid and limit the amount of money available, offering little immediate relief to countries that are short of cash because of the cutoff in Middle Eastern oil or the loss of remittances from nationals working in oilfields there.
Tokyo also pledged Wednesday night to transport food, water and medical supplies to the gulf on Japanese civilian aircraft and ships, and to pay for military equipment to be flown there on planes and ships chartered from other nations.
Today, Japanese officials said the cost of chartering ships and planes and shipping medical and other supplies to the Middle East would be about $1 billion.
 
Constitution Bans Force
Despite public pressure from Washington to do more than simply underwrite the military efforts undertaken by others, Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu said it would violate Japan's Constitution for the country to transport any military personnel or equipment to a region of potential combat.
''There are things we can do and cannot do,'' the Prime Minister said, adding that the package ''represents the maximum extent we can go.''
Japan's Constitution, written by the United States after World War II, renounces ''the threat or use of force as a means of settling international disputes.'' It has long been cited by Tokyo as a barrier to action, even in using military aircraft to aid earthquake victims in Armenia in 1988.
Mr. Kaifu, who looked grim and fatigued at his news conference Wednesday night, seemed to be more concerned with Japanese opposition to his package as too radical than with American concerns that it is too modest. He appealed to the Japanese to abandon their aloof approach to world political crises.
''If Japan's response is delayed and the world gets the impression that Japan does nothing for peace in the region, when its own important national interest is at stake, Japan's future will be lost,'' the Prime Minister declared.
There was no official comment from the United States immediately after Mr. Kaifu announced the package. But American officials made it clear earlier in the day that they were ''very unhappy,'' as one put it, with the omission of an indirect or direct Japanese military role.
''If you look at the situation in the Middle East, we judge it to be basically a military situation,'' said an American official, his voice edged with sarcasm. ''There's a limited number of Girl Scout cookies that can be used there.''
In another unusual move, the United States Ambassador, Michael H. Armacost, told Japanese editorial writers on Tuesday evening that Americans were feeling ''impatience, bewilderment and exasperation'' with Japan's delays in announcing its plans in the gulf, a spokesman for the American Embassy said.
He said Mr. Armacost expressed concern that Japanese assistance would be ''so circumscribed as to hinder its operational usefulness and thus its political value.'' The Ambassador has made it clear that he does not agree that the Constitution prevents further action.
 
U.S. Wants Minesweepers
Among the steps urged by Mr. Armacost and other officials is the use of Japanese minesweepers to patrol waters in the gulf. They also have asked that Japanese ships normally used for transporting automobiles to the United States be commandeered to send tanks and other equipment to the Middle East.
Aides to Mr. Armacost, who only last week were praising Japan for its swift expression of support in the days after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, had a different tone on Wednesday, saying that Tokyo's inaction would stir resentment in Congress that Japan is not putting itself at risk like other nations.
Some also warned that Japan's response might set back Tokyo's quest for a seat on the United Nations Security Council.
Taizo Watanabe, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, said he could not say whether the aid to Turkey, Egypt and Jordan would be ''in the millions or billions'' of dollars. He said the assistance would likely be in the form of low-cost loans or grants for projects to be identified later.
Project loans, however, are not what the countries of the Middle East need right now, many experts say. These countries are suffering rather from a loss of cash flow amounting to billions of dollars. Mr. Watanabe said it was his understanding that Japan would not be meeting the Middle Eastern country's ''cash needs.''
Officials and experts said there were several reasons for Japan's failure to come forward with a bolder package. Among them is the Japanese people's reluctance to violate the spirit or letter of a Constitution that has taken on an almost sanctified status.
Some Japanese officials are said to fear that a greater military role for Japan would alarm Asian neighbors that remain wary about the country's intentions 45 years after the end of World War II. Others say that the Japanese oppose giving more authority to the military, whom they blame for the disaster of World War II.
The Foreign Ministry and Mr. Kaifu himself have been described by officials in the last few weeks as the most eager for Japan to step up its role in the Middle East crisis. But wider measures were opposed by other ministries and by political rivals of Mr. Kaifu, who do not like to see him succeed or improve his image.
Mr. Watanabe said on Wednesday night that as a practical matter, Japan would be prevented from transporting combat-related personnel or equipment on commercial aircraft because the employees of shipping and aircraft companies have made it clear they would refuse to carry such cargo into a war zone.
Japan Air Lines is said to be worried about several of its employees being held hostage by Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (94%); JORDAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (93%); TURKEY (92%); GULF STATES (92%); ARMENIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN; IRAQ; JORDAN; EGYPT; TURKEY ; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (63%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R MICHAEL H ARMACOST (66%); TOSHIKI KAIFU (59%); 



877 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2353 words

HEADLINE: THE U.N.'S WATERSHED: A SPECIAL REPORT:
CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Putting Teeth in an Embargo: How U.S. Convinced the U.N.

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO with ERIC PACE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The phone call to Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d on Aug. 22 at his Wyoming ranch was not the first to interrupt his vacation, but it was one of the most important. The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, called Mr. Baker's remote mountain retreat to say Moscow was leaning toward supporting a United Nations resolution giving the world's navies the right to enforce the international trade embargo against Iraq.
It would be two days before the Soviets gave their full approval, but the call was a pivotal point in a six-day round-the-clock diplomatic effort by the United States and its Western allies to convince the Soviet Union, China and defiant third-world countries that urgent action was needed to enforce the United Nations sanctions imposed after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
On the basis of the call, the United States delegate to the United Nations, Thomas R. Pickering, and other Administration officials redoubled their efforts to build an international coalition to restrain President Saddam Hussein of Iraq.
 
An Improvised Effort
At 4:10 A.M. on Saturday Aug. 25, the Security Council voted 13 to 0, with two abstentions, to approve Resolution 665, calling on member states with naval forces in the area to take action ''as may be necessary'' to ''insure strict implementation'' of the embargo on trade with Iraq. 
It was the first time in the United Nations' 45-year history that such sweeping military authority had been conferred without a United Nations flag or command. And it was the most striking example of Soviet-American cooperation within the international organization.
But according to interviews with senior Administration officials and foreign diplomats involved in the negotiations, the effort to enlist the United Nations was largely improvised, and did not flow from lofty principles of international unity.
Administration officials said the United States turned to the United Nations primarily to deflect objections from other countries that Washington was acting alone, and to avoid problems if ships from countries sympathetic to the sanctions against Iraq were stopped by American warships.
''There was no prescribed game plan,'' a senior Administration official said. ''We were thinking things up moment by moment.'' The adoption of the resolution depended on a blend of delicate diplomacy and arm twisting by the United States and its allies, rising Soviet impatience with Iraq and close consultation between Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze, whose working relationship and budding friendship were instrumental in obtaining support for the resolution.
 
The Embargo
 
Going It Alone, Thinking Again
An hour after Iraqi tanks rolled into Kuwait at 2 A.M. New York time, Aug. 2, Robert M. Kimmitt, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, was on the phone to Mr. Pickering at the United Nations, instructing him to call an urgent Security Council meeting to condemn the aggression and demand Iraq's immediate and unconditional withdrawal. A resolution to that effect sailed through the Security Council on Aug. 3, as did later resolutions imposing trade sanctions against Iraq, declaring the annexation of Kuwait null and void, and challenging Iraq's seizure of foreign hostages and its closure of foreign embassies in Kuwait.
Given this extraordinary cooperation from the Security Council, world leaders were startled when Mr. Baker announced on Sunday Aug. 12, that the United States had decided to go it alone with an ''interdiction'' of Iraqi commerce at sea. Mr. Baker argued that the action was legally justified by a formal Kuwaiti request under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. Article 51 recognizes members' right to ''individual or collective self-defense'' while waiting for Security Council action.
But by Monday Aug. 13, several members of the Security Council were asserting in a closed meeting that an impatient American President was imposing a blockade, calling it something else, using a questionable legal formula to justify it and doing it without telling anybody. The diplomats, led by Yves Fortier, Canada's representative, argued that the Security Council should instead take a step-by-step approach under the Charter's Article 42, which provides for blockades and other military actions but only with explicit Security Council approval.
''I tried to make the point that Canada is Washington's best friend on the Council, and that if your best friend can't bring you bad news, who can?'' said Mr. Fortier. ''I said that these are uncharted waters, that there are no precedents, so why not play it as the framers of the Charter had envisioned it?''
Another diplomat cabled back to his capital, ''For first time since the beginning of the crisis the United States looked isolated.''
At that moment, the Bush Adminstration began a concerted campaign of damage control. Mr. Baker telephoned the French Foreign Minister, Roland Dumas, and Mr. Shevardnadze, saying yes, perhaps the United States should have consulted more and assuring them that the United States wanted their help in enforcing the embargo.
Mr. Shevardnadze repeated what he had told Mr. Baker the previous week, that perhaps the time was right to reinvigorate a moribund United Nations mechanism known as the Military Staff Committee as a collective way to resolve the Persian Gulf crisis.
The United States, jealously guarding its own prerogatives, has long resisted committing American forces to a military operation under a United Nations umbrella. But on Tuesday Aug. 14, Mr. Kimmitt called in the representatives of the other permanent members of the United Nations to pursue the Soviet idea and discuss putting warships in the gulf under United Nations auspices. One diplomat who attended the meeting said, ''The Americans threw the Soviets the bone they wanted.''
 
The Challenge
 
A Chinese Vessel And Iraqi Tankers
The Bush Administration still had not decided to push hard for a Security Council resolution legitimizing American ''interdiction.'' ''Our strategy was that we were going to do whatever we had to do on our own, and if we could bring along the U.N., then fine,'' said a senior Administration official.
But by the end of the week, American intelligence officials warned that the United Nations sanctions were about to be broken as an Iraqi tanker, loaded with Iraqi oil, headed toward Yemeni waters. The United States would have to decide whether to stop the tanker or allow it to steam into port.
Complicating matters was the fact that intelligence officials spotted a Chinese cargo ship believed to be carrying fertilizer moving from Iraq's only functioning port at Umm Qasr. Although the Chinese vessel had to return to port because of mechanical problems, the incident highlighted the risks of the American decision to block Iraqi shipping on its own. The Bush Administration knew that to seize or disable a Chinese vessel would probably destroy any chance of further collective measures at the Security Council, where China has veto power, and could turn world opinion against the United States.
On the evening of Monday Aug. 20, Mr. Pickering was instructed to call an urgent Security Council meeting to seek a resolution allowing the use of force to enforce the sanctions. His explicit order was to keep the Security Council in session however long it took to get a resolution passed.
Mr. Pickering, 58 years old, a former Ambassador to Israel, Jordan and El Salvador and one of the State Department's most senior career ambassadors, began what other diplomats described as a heroic effort to put a positive face on a terrible brief. He argued that the Iraqi tanker, the Khaniqin, would reach Yemeni waters by 6 A.M. New York time on Tuesday Aug. 21, and urged Security Council members to immediately accept a joint American-British draft resolution.
But the members of the Council had no instructions from their capitals on how to vote and demanded evidence of the Khanaqin's whereabouts that Mr. Pickering could not provide. The meeting adjourned after 1 A.M., after Yemen's chief delgate informed the Council that his country would not allow the tanker to unload its cargo. Mr. Pickering thanked his Yemeni colleague in fluent Arabic.
''Pickering is a prince of a man but many of us felt that the Americans lost a lot of good will that evening,'' said a Western ambassador.
On Wednesday, Aug. 22, Mr. Pickering presented an ad hoc sanctions committee of the Council with an array of maps showing the locations of a number of Iraqi tankers, while Sir Crispin Tickell, the chief British representative, offered evidence of Libyan complicity in sanction busting.
''It wasn't quite Bay of Pigs stuff, but at that point, a number of us were convinced,'' said a participant.
 
The Strategy
 
Moving China And the Soviets
The United States and its Western allies had also carried out an extraordinary diplomatic campaign to keep the Soviets and the Chinese involved in the negotiating process.
The eventual success of the resolution was largely the result of the telephone diplomacy of Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze, whose relationship has bloomed in the last year. Their cooperation has been so close that it was Mr. Baker who first informed his Soviet counterpart of the invasion while the two of them were meeting in Siberia.
In the weeks that followed, the two men stayed in contact, sometimes several times a day, either directly by phone or through their envoys in each other's capitals.
But after the Americans began their push for a resolution to enforce the embargo, Mr. Shevardnadze made it clear that the Soviet Union wanted to exhaust its own diplomatic initiative with Mr. Hussein before embracing the punitive resolution.
For more than two decades, Moscow has supplied Baghdad with the bulk of its weaponry, trained its military and helped build its infrastructure.
In meetings in Moscow with Saadun Hammadi, an Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister and veteran diplomat, Soviet officials blamed Iraq for the crisis and urged Mr. Hussein to observe Security Council calls to withdraw from Kuwait and release foreign hostages. If he did not, the Soviets said, Iraq would face tougher measures by the world body.
By Wednesday Aug. 22, Mr. Shevardnadze told Mr. Baker by phone that Moscow needed to give President Hussein 48 more hours, but that the United States should go forward with a resolution. In a phone call the next day, Mr. Shevardnadze told Mr. Baker that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had sent an urgent personal appeal to President Hussein.
But on Friday, Aug. 24, Aleksandr M. Belonogov, a Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister and former chief envoy to the United Nations, urgently summoned the American Ambassador, Jack Matlock, to the Foreign Ministry and gave the go-ahead.
All the Soviets wanted, said Mr. Belonogov, were two small textual changes. The first was the deletion of the specific reference to the use of ''minimum force'' and substitution of the more general phrase, ''measures commensurate to the specific circumstances.'' The second was inclusion of the phrase ''maximum use of political and diplomatic measures.''
The American side saw the changes as strengthening, not weakening the final resolution, because they did not preclude the use of force, minimum or otherwise.
'' 'We've heard from the Iraqis and the answer is unsatisfactory,' '' said a senior Administration official, paraphrasing Mr. Belonogov's words. With a few small amendments, he said, the Soviets were ''ready to go.''
''The fishing buddies stayed in real close touch and in the end that was the key,'' a senior Administration official said.
The Chinese also needed convincing, but of another kind. From the beginning, China had opposed the use of force to back sanctions and stated its belief that great-power involvement in the Persian Gulf made the crisis worse.
In a Presidential message to Chinese leaders, and in meetings between American and Chinese officials in Washington, the United Nations and Beijing, the Bush Administration drove home the point that it would be unthinkable for one of the five permanent members to veto the resolution. China, eager to resume a role as an important player in the world and delighted at having established diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia in July, went along.
 
The Final Night
 
Temporary Delay, Ultimate Victory
The evening of Friday Aug. 24, the Security Council met for a marathon session that would end in their predawn resolution.
Still, the vote to approve the resolution did not come easily. The Council had to wait for the Chinese to get final instructions from Beijing. Cuba, one of the 10 rotating members of the 15-member Council, tried a last-ditch effort to convince other third-world Council members to delay the vote. Other third-world delegations tried to change the language to effectively establish a joint United Nations command over the naval activities. Mr. Pickering and Sir Crispin were seen huddling in a corridor near the Security Council trying to get the full backing of recalcitrant Colombian and Malaysian envoys.
At 4:10 A.M., as the vote was taken, some of the delegates turned to China's chief delegate, Li Daoyu, to see if he would abstain, as they had expected. He did not, but raised his hand with 12 others to vote for the resolution. Cuba and Yemen abstained.
Even in the face of unity, however, there were gradations in tone and different interpretations of what the resolution actually meant.
''United States naval forces, in coordination with other naval forces in the area, would use minimum force only as necessary'' to enforce the trade sanctions structly, Mr. Pickering said in praising the Council in his formal remarks after the vote. Valentin V. Lozinskiy, the deputy Soviet representative, struck a more cautious note, urging ''prudence and caution and not to permit reliance on forcible methods.'' And China's envoy, Mr. Li, said that his country believed that the wording of the adopted resolution ''does not contain the concept of using force.''

GRAPHIC: Photos' Thomas R. Pickering, delegate to United Nations, made American case to Security Council. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Security Council delegates who voted on Saturday to approve the use of force in the economic embargo against Iraq included, from left, Valentin V. Lozinsky of the Soviet Union, Sir Crispin Tickell of Britain and Thomas R. Pickering of the United States. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); CHINA; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ; EMBARGOES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); NAVIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; PICKERING, THOMAS R (AMB) SADDAM HUSSEIN (70%); 



878 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: In New York, Low Count Draws Chorus of Criticism

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Preliminary 1990 census figures show New York City with a population of 7,033,179, significantly smaller than the Census Bureau estimated in 1988 and at least 600,000 people short of estimates by city planners and at least one outside expert.
The numbers released yesterday drew a loud chorus of criticism from state and local officials and were expected to fuel the debate over the accuracy of the 1990 count and renew calls for a statistical adjustment to compensate for any undercounting.
The disputed figures could mean fewer Congressional seats for New York State and the loss of millions of dollars in Federal aid.
New York City officials, who estimate the city's population at 8.1 million, have been among the most vocal critics of the census and have filed a lawsuit against the Department of Commerce, of which the Census Bureau is a part, to win an adjustment.
''This is unadulterated nonsense,'' Mayor David N. Dinkins said of the latest figures. ''The Census Bureau itself admitted that its 1980 count missed some 450,000 New Yorkers.'' 
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, speaking in Albany, repeated a widespread belief among Democrats that the Republican Administration sees an undercount as a way to erode Democratic representation and it ''has no real interest in changing the way we count.''
''The numbers are low, period,'' he said. ''We'll do anything we can to challenge it because it's wrong, in my opinion.''
Initial numbers released yesterday by the Census Bureau put the city's population 38,460, or 0.5 percent, less than the 1980 total, 7,071,639. In 1988, the bureau estimated the city's population had grown to 7,352,700, while studies by city planners and outside experts have estimated a population closer to 8 million. A breakdown of the population by borough was not available.
Discrepancies between the preliminary data and the bureau's own projections have also emerged in tallies for New York, New Jersey and other states, although the reasons are still unclear. Officials from the Census Bureau would not comment yesterday on the differences between the latest figures and earlier estimates, but they stressed that the information should be considered ''working numbers'' subject to change.
Rough figures also released yesterday showed that the population of New York State rose by 0.4 percent, or 68,421, to 17,626,586. New Jersey and Connecticut also gained population -by 3.4 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively - but the figures for these two states, released last week, were also lower than expected.
The census data, which are being sent to about 39,000 local governments for possible corrections during a phase called post-census local review, is already being questioned by New York City officials and at least one expert outside government.
 
Demographic Indicators
City officials said immigration and records from utilities, the Housing Authority and other sources indicate that New York City's population has grown in the last decade. Emanuel Tobier, a professor of planning and economics at the Robert F. Wagner School of Public Service at New York University, estimated in a study scheduled for release next week that the city's population was 7,622,000 in 1987. He said the figure should be closer to 7.8 million now.
Mr. Tobier said he used the 1980 census as a base and then projected population growth to 1987 using information about births, deaths, enrollment in public and private schools, Social Security recipients and other demographic indicators. The number of births alone, he said, increased by 28 percent between 1980 and 1989.
''It's inconceivable to me that this type of increase could take place without a significant increase in the population,'' he said. ''Since births are a recorded event, and the census figures are based upon their finding people, I have to say that the census figures have to be wrong ones, and by a lot.''
States and cities have three weeks to challenge the estimates by matching the census tally against their own lists. The bureau is then supposed to recanvass areas where discrepancies occurred.
 
Information Is 'Snapshot'
''Once we see the workload we have, there'll be reallocations of money to serve those areas that are challenging'' the preliminary figures, said John J. Connolly, assistant to Bureau Director Barbara Everitt Bryant.
Mr. Connolly said the preliminary information ''is a snapshot of an ongoing process.''
''We expect these numbers throughout the country to be higher,'' Mr. Connolly said. ''We want the localities to help us find housing units we might have missed.''
New York City officials said they had identified several instances where the count might have been inaccurate. During their review of the numbers, they said, they will first look at whether the Census Bureau accounted for 256,000 housing units that the city had pointed out as missing or misplaced in the bureau's original address list.
 
Time Is a Concern
''We have a substantial number of blocks that weren't on their list and that we submitted to them and when the mailing came out didn't get the forms,'' said Hulbert James, census project coordinator for the Mayor's office.
Mr. James said another area that merits close inspection is the number of units listed as vacant, or that were altogether deleted, during the door-to-door count that followed up on people who did not mail in census forms. He said at least 176,421 units were classified as vacant and 337,613 units were deleted.
Another concern is the time allowed to review the figures. Evelyn S. Mann, director of the population division of the New York City Department of City Planning, said a staff of two to three dozen computer specialists, geographers and demographers would spend the next two weeks making a computer match of the bureau's numbers with the city's own list of housing units in 29,000 to 30,000 city blocks. But because time is short, she said, the workers can research only big differences between the two lists.
 
'Back to the Maps'
The city's list is based on utility records, housing authority and real property records, land use maps and aerial photographs, new construction and demolitions.
''We could go back to the maps, aerial photos and start all over again to build up data for a particular block to recheck both sets of numbers, but we won't be able to do that except in a very limited way for really outstanding differences,'' she said.
The numbers are troubling for the the city and the state because they are used to allocate Federal aid and Congressional representation.
In addition, Jeffrey M. Wice, Washington counsel to Mel Miller, the Speaker of the State Assembly, which is controlled by Democrats, predicted that the state could lose three seats in Congress based on the figures released yesterday. The state could hold that loss to just two seats, he added, if future adjustments boosted New York's population count by about 250,000 and the rough tallies for six other states remained the same.
But these projections are not certain, he said. ''I wouldn't want anyone to think that this is definitely no more than a three-seat loss,'' he said. ''The chances of losing a fourth seat are now somewhat remote, but they're not out of the question.''
New York Republicans, who now control the State Senate, also expressed concern that the numbers released today did not adequately portray New York's true population count but said they would review the numbers more closely before deciding on any legal action.
''We haven't had a good enough look at the overall state numbers to decide on that,'' said John McArdle, a spokesman for Ralph J. Marino, the majority leader of the State Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (96%); CITIES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MAYORS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (55%); LITIGATION (54%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA JOHN J CONNOLLY (61%); 



879 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Census Data Show Sharp Rural Losses

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
From the Mississippi River delta to the Appalachian mountains of Kentucky to the high plains of North Dakota, rural America suffered far greater losses in population during the 1980's than had been expected, according to preliminary figures from the 1990 census.
The rural losses, combined with big gains in thriving Western and Southern metropolitan areas like Seattle, Los Angeles and Orlando, Fla., are expected to mean that 19 of the country's 435 Congressional seats will change hands among the states, with New York losing three and California gaining seven. That would give California 52, or 12 percent of the nation's total.
The preliminary estimate for the country's population was about 245.8 million, based on the mail return of census forms and follow-up door-to-door head counts. But Census Bureau officials said efforts to count people missed in those initial surveys had already added or will add at least three million people, bringing the national total near 250 million. That figure would be about even with the bureau's earlier estimates. 
 
Millions of Immigrants
More than at any time since World War I, the population increase was driven by immigration, both legal and illegal. Immigrants - 7 million to 9 million over the decade, largely from Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean - represent at least one-third and perhaps as much as 40 percent of the estimated increase of 23 million people, according to data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and analysis by the Urban Institute, a Washington-based research group.
That fact may be a slight damper on Republican strategists' enthusiasm for the new census numbers. The areas that are the biggest gainers, particularly around Los Angeles and throughout Florida, are areas that helped put Ronald Reagan and George Bush in the White House. But at least in California, as much as 30 percent of the growth is due to immigration. Whether the new Asian and Mexican immigrants there will follow the immigrant tradition of voting Democratic is not yet clear.
The portrait of America that emerges from the preliminary data reveals a country continuing the trends of the 1960's and 1970's, when more and more of the population turned southward and westward and once-powerful manufacturing industries of the East and Middle West crumbled.
In fact, the new data show, at least 55 percent of Americans now live in the South and the West, up from 52 percent in 1980 and 48 percent in 1970. By contrast, only 20 percent of Americans live in the Northeast, down from 21.7 a decade ago, and 24 percent live in the Middle West, down from nearly 26 percent in 1980.
 
Following the Sun
In the 1980's, the new data show, a growing number of retirees went looking for sun, sea and mountain peaks, and the new worlds of high-technology manufacturing and a growing service economy created boom towns along the California and Florida coasts.
''In the 1970's, you had Sun Belt growth, but a lot of it was in the small metropolitan areas and non-metropolitan areas,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer from the University of Michigan. ''In the 1980's, we've flipped in the other direction, toward more metropolitan growth. The Sun Belt is still growing faster than the snow belt, but in general the growth in the 1980's centered on the metropolitan areas around the coasts.''
All the decade's demographic trends seemed to converge in California, which, according to Jeffrey Passell of the Urban Institute, became home to 25 to 30 percent of the decade's immigrants. But the high-technology industries and the expanding service economies in everything from software development to law to recreation to real estate also drove dramatic growth rates in Los Angeles, San Diego and San Jose. Seven counties in California have more than a million people. Only four other states, New York, Florida, Texas and Pennsylvania, have more than one county with a million people.
Los Angeles also passed Chicago as the country's second-largest city, while San Diego moved past Detroit and Dallas to become the sixth-largest.
 
The Winner: California
Indeed, the decade's biggest winner was California, which accounted for nearly a quarter of the nation's population growth - and will gain political power to match - for a total of more than 29 million people. Florida grew by about 31 percent, to a total of just under 13 million, in the preliminary data, while Texas increased by 2.6 million, or 18.3 percent. The five southwestern states of Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah and Colorado grew by 22 percent, up to a total of 11 million.
Meanwhile, Pennsylvania and Illinois, powerhouse industrial states at mid-century, were among the states to lose population between 1980 and 1990, according to the preliminary figures. Illinois decreased from 11.4 to 11.3 million, and Chicago lost as many as 275,000 people, about 9 percent of its population, as it dropped below 3 million.
Over all, the population totals of Southeastern region - Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee, as well as Arkansas - came in well blow expectations.
The preliminary figures, which have been released in stages over the past two weeks, will increase before the final figures are delivered to President Bush at the year's end, according to John Connolly, an assistant to the Census Bureau Director, Barbara Bryant.
 
Sent Out for Review
The current figures, being sent to 39,000 local jurisdictions for review and possible correction, fail to reflect late counts of people in some hard-to-count areas, the continuing counts of up to one million parolees and probationers and the allocation of about 1.2 million dependents of overseas military personnel in communities around the country, according to another Census Bureau official.
Local jurisdictions have 15 working days to review the numbers and provide evidence showing areas that were missed by enumerators. After the local review, which is being done on a far greater scale since its inception a decade ago, revised local figures will be combined with figures obtained in other efforts to find people missed in the initial count.
Texas, which picked up at least 2.6 million people, still grew less than expected. But Houston, with at least 1.6 million people, climbed from fifth to fourth in the rankings of the largest cities. Dallas, with 991,000 people, retained seventh place.
 
Pennsylvania Loses Out
Pennsylvania, by contrast, was one of the states to lose population, according to the preliminary figures. The state, which dropped from 11.8 million to 11.7 million people, seemed to suffer the convergence of many of the negative trends - getting little benefit from immigration, new industry or the growth of retirement communities, and falling victim to the continued decline of manufacturing and the renewed decline of rural areas.
The rural decline over the decade reversed the trend of the 1970's, when a back-to-the-land movement fueled a modest increase in rural population around the country, according to Dr. Frey of the University of Michigan and Calvin Beale, a demographer with the Agriculture Department.
Census figures released today showed great-than-expected losses all across rural America. The total loss for rural areas, Mr. Beale estimated, could be as high as 1.4 million in the 1980's. Rural losses were apparently a major factor in tipping at least four states, Iowa, North Dakota, Wyoming and Louisiana, below their 1980 population totals.
''The prolonged agricultural crisis and the general economic recession that affected the nation as a whole, particularly in 1982 and 1983, was much worse in the rural areas and was more prolonged in the rural areas,'' said Mr. Beale.
 
Even Weather Is Factor
The economic factors varied, he said. They include the downturn in mining in Western Colorado, Wyoming and the southern Appalachian regions; the loss of population in some heavily black counties in the rural South, and the months of searing heat and drought that drove people from the dry grain fields of Iowa and the Dakotas. All but six counties in Iowa lost population, according to preliminary figures.
However, he said, the magnitude of the losses in hard-hit areas of the South and Middle West will be masked to some degree in overall figures by pockets of rural boomlets, almost all associated either with population spilling out from suburbs as young people seek affordable housing, or with the growth of retirement communities.
Examples of the continuing growth of the counties near the outer boundaries of metropolitan areas could be found all over the country, most dramatically in Riverside and San Bernardino Counties east of Los Angeles, but also in Dutchess County, north of Westchester, or Worcester County, 40 miles west of Boston, or Snohomish County, north of Seattle.
 
Politics of Population
Because the membership in the House of Representatives is fixed at 435, it is possible for a state to have a population gain - as New York did, albeit a slight one - and still lose seats in the House as faster-growing states get new ones in accordance with their greater share of the population.
In the complicated formula by which the 50 states compete, however impersonally, for their shares of the House seats, Mississippi and Kentucky are currently in contention for the last Congressional seat among the 435 to be allocated. At least that is the opinion of Kimball Brace, president of Election Data Services, a consulting firm which works for many state Democratic organizations, and Thomas Hofeller, redistricting of the Republican National Congressional Committee.
Both men agree on the estimates of which states will be winners and losers in the allocation of Congressional seats. Aside from California, the gainers will be Florida, gaining four seats for a total of 23, and Texas, whose delegation will increase by three for a total of 30. Other likely gainers of one seat each are Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, Arizona and Washington.
Losers, aside from New York, include Pennsylvania, Illinois, Ohio and Michigan, each likely to lose two seats, and Louisiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Montana, New Jersey and West Virginia, each likely to lose one seat.
But the remaining three million or more people who have not yet been factored into the count could skew slightly those predictions, Mr. Brace and Mr. Hofeller cautioned.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article and a map yesterday about the 1990 census referred incorrectly in some copies to the percentage increase in Texas' population.
The increase was 18.3 percent (not 14 or 11.8).
A chart comparing 1980 and 1990 census data for New York misstated the percentage change for New York City in some copies. The population dropped 0.5 percent, according to preliminary figures; it did not rise by that amount.
The chart was also credited incompletely. Election Data Services was a source for changes in Congressional representation.

GRAPHIC: Charts: Population shifts and their political effect in each state; 1990 census data for the 12 largest cities, compared to the 1980 population; 1990 census data for all of New York, compared to the 1980 population (Sources: Census Bureau, Democratic and Republican Congressional committees) (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WESTERN STATES (US); SOUTHERN STATES (US); NEW YORK STATE; CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS; ELECTIONS; REAPPORTIONMENT; RURAL AREAS CENSUS (96%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REDISTRICTING (77%); TRENDS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); CITIES (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); WORLD WAR I (52%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



880 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
OPEC agreed to increase production, authorizing its key producers to pump all the oil they can. The decision - expected to add some 4 million barrels a day - averts a feared shortage that has sent prices surging on world markets. Page A1

 
Round-the-clock diplomatic efforts by the U.S. and its Western allies convinced the Soviet Union, China and third world countries that urgent action was needed to enforce the U.N. sanctions on Iraq. A1

 
Arab Americans faulting Bush on hostility A19

Israelis are worried by U.S. restraint A17

 
None of the U.S. women and children trapped in Kuwait and Iraq left, despite Saddam Hussein's promise to permit them and other Westerners to depart. Baghdad said it would first require them to get exit visas. A1 
 
 
Japan approved a financial package to aid the international effort against Iraq. But American officials criticized the long-awaited package for failing to provide direct tangible assistance to the military buildup in the Persian Gulf. A1

 
Talk of a ''peace dividend'' is muted, although not silenced, as the gulf crisis gives members of Congress second thoughts about making major cuts in military spending over the next year. A14

 
Pentagon orders big cuts to free money for crisis A16

 
It's old, ugly and it kills tanks: it's the Warthog A15

Syrian Army is said to put down pro-Iraq demonstrators A16

Rebel bands in Kuwait kill hundreds, U.S. aide says A15

Reporter finally flees Kuwait after eluding Iraqis A16

TV Critic's Notebook: Why the tube can be Hussein's enemy A16

 
The tent city outside the Kremlin is remarkably akin to the year-round camp of aggrieved Americans who picket the White House. The protest continues as John Sununu visits Moscow to offer advice on the Soviet Government's ''paper flow.'' A3

 
Moscow Journal: A movie is a whisper of civil war A4

Armenia declares emergency rule after legislator is killed A3

 
News analysis: Cambodian factions warring among themselves may finally negotiate seriously now that the five permanent members of the U.N. have agreed on the essentials of a political settlement. A5

 
Aquino willing to negotiate cease-fires A8

 
Britain will request an appeal in the case of six men convicted of murdering 21 people in the bombings of two pubs in Birmingham in 1974. The decision was prompted by new information on the police investigation of the case. A10

 
Tearing down barricades, Mohawks end standoff A9

 
NATIONAL A18-21, B8-12
 
Rural areas declined in population more during the 1980's than had been expected, preliminary census data show. Combined with gains in coastal cities, the drop likely means that 19 Congressional seats will change hands among the states. A1

 
The population of New York City is significantly smaller than the Census Bureau estimated in 1988, preliminary census figures show. The count of 7,033,179 drew a chorus of criticism and is expected to renew debate about the census's accuracy. A1

 
The powerful tornado in Illinois killed at least 25 people, injured more than 350 and shattered scores of homes and apartments. Six people were still missing after the worst tornado to strike Illinois in two decades. A18

 
Dallas Police Chief is charged with perjury A18

Ketchum Journal: Real life intrudes on reverie of the past A18

 
A ''shrewd, methodical'' killer who broke into three students' apartments on separate nights last week is behind a murder spree that has left five dead in colleges in Gainesville, Fla., the police said. A20

 
California closer to its first execution since 1967 B10

 
Washington at Work: The second in command at the Justice Department is William P. Barr, a self-deprecating bagpipe-playing New Yorker. His daunting task: to turn around one of the Bush Administration's most troubled departments. B8

 
Incompetent doctors and dentists and other health practitioners will be listed on a single, nationwide data base beginning Saturday. The action is considered one of the most important ever taken by the Government to discipline doctors. B8

 
First Hubble findings bring delight B10

Foreign genes are inserted in humans, a study reports B8

Oil drilling tests in Alaska refuge are urged B10

Judge orders tuna import ban over dolphin kill A21

 
Consumer confidence plummeted in August, as measured by two major indexes. The results indicate that frightened Americans might be pushing the country into a recession. D1

 
REGIONAL B1-6
 
Guards used excessive force at Rikers Island during the disturbance that left more than a hundred inmates and correction officers injured, the state Commission of Correction concluded. A1

 
U.S. judge approves order on the use of force in jails B2

 
The M.T.A. wants to smooth the way for development of a huge office tower on Madison Avenue as a necessary first step in its efforts to purchase Grand Central Terminal and begin a $400 million renovation of the mid-Manhattan landmark. B1

 
Cars and buses not powered by gas will be purchased by New York State over the next five years, Governor Cuomo said. The alternative fuel vehicles will run mostly on methanol and compressed natural gas. B4

 
AIDS tests performed in autopies in New York City have found infection rates as high as 38 percent in some groups. Overall, one in seven autopsies revealed AIDS infection. B1

 
A painting of a crucifixion scene hanging in an upstate New York school must be taken down, a Federal judge ruled. The judge said the painting conveyed ''a message of government endorsement of Christianity.'' B1
 
Much could change in Oyster Bay, angry residents say, if a new zoning proposal is passed that would allow hotels, stores and marinas to be built on a historic portion of the Long Island town's waterfront. B1

 
Homeless man dies, woman is injured when grate collapses B3

It's a rough day at Hilton as fire cuts off power B3

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
THE HOME SECTION
 
A grand house sticks out its tongue C1

Design Notebook: Trinity's soot C1

The ordeal of widowhood C1

Ships under glass C10

A view through stained glass C12

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Judge threatens to void payola case C13

Theater: The scene in London C15

Music: Leos Janacek's ''From the House of the Dead'' C15

Art: Mark di Suvero in France C15

Word and Image: CBS specials may face ''Nightline'' C18

CBS names head of its TV stations C20

Essays on Poland and totalitarianism C18

 HEALTH PAGE B14
 
Personal Health
Allergies in infants are linked to mothers' diets
 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Elster out for season; Darling demoted B15

Mets beat Padres B17

Yankees win fourth in a row B17

Column: Berkow on Capriati B15

Tennis: Gomez eliminated B15

Yachting: Two women to sail round the world B15

 
OBITUARIES D24
 
Raymond St. Jacques, an actor
Gilbert Lesser, poster designer
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A22

 
Five vs. four in Cambodia
Loose ends on gulf policy
Phil Seelig's wounded pride
 
Letters A22

 
A. M. Rosenthal: The hate conference A23

Tom Wicker: The long road back A23

William B. Quandt: Egypt -now a strategic asset A23

Bruce Morton: For Democrats, California dreamin' A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (75%); ARMIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); DEFENSE ORDERS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); ARAB AMERICANS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); MURDER (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); CENSUS (61%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN SUNUNU (56%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 



881 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Sununu Tutors the Kremlin's Staff

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The Kremlin moved ever closer in spirit to the White House today as President Bush's chief of staff worked within on the Soviet ''paper flow,'' and a tent city of disgruntled citizens maintained its encampment in a park just across the way.
The tent-city residents, remarkably akin to the year-round camp of aggrieved Americans who picket opposite the White House in Lafayette Park, kept their own flow of petition paper moving on the edge of Red Square.
They are in their second month of freely offering assorted complaints around the clock about a Soviet bureaucracy that not long ago swallowed dissidents whole.
''Sure this is progress - we're no longer afraid to complain,'' said Valentina Dzhaitova, one of the tent dwellers hoping to get President Gorbachev's attention. ''But so far it's useless.'' 
 
Kremlin's Paper Flow
The mission of John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff and expert on getting a President's attention, is being kept under wraps. Soviet and American officials explain that the visitor from the West Wing is concerned with discussing not the substantive issues but only the process by which they reach the desk where the ruble stops.
Mr. Sununu stayed on the closed side of the Kremlin walls, offering no public comment and only private advice, embassy officials said, on how to govern the Government.
Whether a White House-style paper flow might bolster the Kremlin's ability to face a raft of pending critical problems is debatable, at least, in a nation that daily suffers fresh touches of eeriness. This week, for example, features not only increasing Armenian guerrilla violence and another attempt at creating a national economic recovery plan, but also such lower-priority problems as anthrax in Khirgizian sausage and quicksand in the Moscow subway.
A vivid summary of those problems, from the plight of refugees of interethnic violence to the poverty and homelessness of economic failure, is at hand among the 200 residents of the tent city. They vow to stay permanently as they complete their second month amid the flower bed and lawn of the Rossiya hotel just opposite the Kremlin.
 
'Capital of Absurdistan'
The visible routine of their lives, from the old lady who walks her dog outside her plastic tent to the family glimpsed getting dressed in their cramped enclosure, only heightens the human wonder suggested by the striped domes and swirls of nearby St. Basil's Cathedral.
''This is the capital of Absurdistan,'' an approaching Muscovite said as he took the tent city in stride.
Another passer-by said: ''Do not stop here. Go all the way through the Kremlin gates.'' He felt the Soviet bureaucracy must be scolded full face, not briefly heckled as the Government limousines race past the 20 tents lining what residents have dubbed the Street of the Victims of Arbitrary Government Rule.
The tenters' individual complaints range from jobs and apartments lost to the machinations of vindictive bureaucrats to accusations of coverups of neighborhood slayings.
 
Uprooted Baku Family
Soviet passers-by, connoisseurs of the difference between a crazed street loner and one of the nation's many despairing victims of old totalitarianism, are quietly curious and often sympathetic, dropping coins and paper rubles into the begging cups outside the tents.
''I understand them well,'' said a Moscow visitor, Stanislav Bagdasarov, who stood watching with his 8-year-old son, Arsen, taking a break after three fruitless days of visiting Government bureaucracies with his own problem. ''There are many just demands here.'' His family was uprooted a year ago from home, jobs and possessions in the anti-Armenian pogrom in Baku. They fled to kin in Armenia and now live in a tent in Yerevan as Mr. Bagdasarov, one of the nation's 600,000 ethnic refugees, petitions the Government for a job and minimal shelter.
''Winter is coming,'' he said, staring hard at the tent dwellers. ''Soon it will be cold out here. I could come to this before I'm done, holding out my own begging cup.''
 
Candor as a Public Plecebo
A banner announcing the tent city, which has taken root with the encouragement of the new insurgent city government, demands investigations and trials of abusive Government bureaucrats.
''Before we would have been buried alive by the Government for doing this,'' said Dmitri Dukov, a 65-year-old former sailor who said he suffered decades of official abuse, from job loss to unjust psychiatric incarceration, after publicly complaining that the seaman's union demands bribes as a condition of membership.
''Now the Government lets us stay here and complain, but it does not do anything about the problems,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE US PRESIDENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (77%); POLITICS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); CITIES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); DOGS (60%); REFUGEES (50%); 

PERSON: SUNUNU, JOHN H; CLINES, FRANCIS X JOHN SUNUNU (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



882 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: CONFRONTATION IN THE GULF;
Peace Dividend: Casualty in the Gulf?

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The Persian Gulf crisis is giving members of Congress second thoughts about making major cuts in military spending for the next fiscal year and has muted but not silenced the hopeful talk of a peace dividend from the end of the cold war.
The crisis has also handed lawmakers a real-life test case, leading some to rethink the nation's military spending priorities, particularly whether more money should be spent on hardware needed for contingencies like the American military buildup in the Persian Gulf and less money on preparing for a European war or a nuclear conflict with the Soviet Union.
The Defense Department has traditionally been slow to embrace major changes in spending priorities because the military services are wed to weapons programs already in development or production.
Last year, for example, Congress approved $600 million for buying the kind of high-speed transport ships that have been in short supply in the sealift of troops and equipment to the Persian Gulf. 
 
Cheney Proved Agile
But Dick Cheney, the Secretary of Defense, was able to maneuver around Congressional dictates - as Cabinet secretaries sometimes do - and used more than a third of the money for new M-1 tanks and other purchases. The Pentagon has still not spent the remaining $375 million.
''Cutting the defense budget by the big numbers is going to be difficult under the best of circumstances,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''But it is certainly much harder when you have troops on alert in the field and a clear threat out there.''
The chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees have proposed cuts of $12 billion to $15 billion from the Bush Adminstration's proposed military budget of slightly more than $300 billion for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The request represents an increase over current military spending that is slightly less than the inflation rate.
But lawmakers and Congressional aides said that in private conversations now, there appeared to be less support among key legislators for these proposals for cuts. Support is growing, they said, for a more modest plan by Senator Sam Nunn, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, for cuts of less than $10 billion.
 
Support for Nunn Seen
Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, said he expected the Nunn proposal to have ''far more support - I think there will be far broader support for less cuts.''
Specifically, Mr. Domenici and other lawmakers said there will be new momentum for protecting some programs that had been the targets of budget cutters, like the B-2 stealth bomber, which could be used against ground targets in Iraq, and the V-22 Osprey, a tilt-rotor aircraft that can swiftly carry troops to a battle area.
Advocates of major military cuts expressed concern that their opponents would use the Persian Gulf conflict as an excuse to keep appropriating money for the Pentagon.
''We're not going to nuke 'em,'' Representative Marty Russo, an Illinois Democrat and member of the Budget Committee, said of the Iraqis. ''We ought to spend more money on rapid deployment, conventional warfare. ''You can do all that and still cut the budget. The modern threat is not all-out nuclear war.''
Representative Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, the ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, added: ''I would admit that those people who never wanted to see our military build down at a rapid rate now have a much better excuse to defend their position.''
Before Congress can resolve the more complicated debate over weapons systems, lawmakers returning from their monthlong recess must decide how to come up with money for the Persian Gulf military operation, which the Pentagon says will cost $2.5 billion through September, twice as much as initially estimated.
President Bush has not decided whether to seek additional money from Congress to pay for the increase or to find the money in existing programs, Pentagon officials said. But Congressional aides, noting that there will be a full legislative agenda next month, predicted that there would be little enthusiasm for a supplemental spending bill.
Yet budget negotiators from Congress and the Bush Administration face an even more daunting challenge: how to comply with the legally required spending ceilings for fiscal 1991 when the growing military costs in the gulf come on top of the rising cost of the savings and loan bailout.
Some lawmakers and analysts say they fear that the negotiators will use these spending pressures and the fear of a recession as an excuse to revise the Gramm-Rudman Act in order to accommodate bigger deficits.
''This whole thing may get them off the hook,'' Respresentative Les Aspin, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said of the negotiators. ''They may say, 'O.K., the recession is imminent, what we need to do now is not have a $50 billion deficit-reduction package, but something smaller.' ''
 
With Combat, Less Chance Yet
With the deficit and the savings and loan bailout, some analysts and lawmakers say prospects have dimmed for a significant peace dividend in which military spending could be shifted to domestic programs, and would diminish even more so if a shooting war breaks out.
''The peace dividend?'' Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, asked Tuesday after joining more more than 170 lawmakers at a meeting with President Bush. ''It looks like it's evaporating in front of our eyes.''
Others argue that there will still be a peace dividend. Representative David E. Bonior, the deputy majority whip, argued, for instance, that he saw no need for 300,000 American troops in Europe. ''I still think we can make serious reductions,'' he said.
But Mr. Cheney said at a recent veterans' convention here that it was a ''faulty conclusion'' that the country could realize a peace dividend for an array of domestic programs. Citing the Mideast conflict, he said, ''The best way to maintain the peace is to be prepared for war, and the 'peace dividend' is peace and it's worth every penny we paid for it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); APPROVALS (68%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L DICK CHENEY (78%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 



883 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Cleanup Begins At Tornado Site Where 25 Died

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PLAINFIELD, Ill., Aug. 29

 BODY:
When the black wind stopped howling and the terrible roar faded, the first thing Bernice Lea noticed, as she huddled inside her bedroom, was the rain, cold and hard on her back. She looked up and saw that the roof and most of the walls of her house were gone.
Even worse, so was her husband's car, with her husband in it.
''Dave had just pulled in the driveway when the tornado hit,'' said Mrs. Lea, standing today amid the flattened debris of her house, one of more than a dozen ranch-style houses on Pratt Lane demolished by the tornado that scoured a track through the neighborhood on Tuesday. ''It picked up his car and tossed it into the bean field at the end of the block. He's hurt, but, thank God, he's alive.'' 
At least 25 people were killed and more than 350 were injured when the most lethal tornado to strike Illinois in two decades dropped suddenly from the heavy August sky. It shattered more than 50 homes and 500 apartments, and crumpled automobiles like tinfoil as it churned an eight-mile course through the cornfields and subdivisions of Will County, 35 miles southwest of Chicago.
Despite its ferocity, the tornado struck before the National Weather Service issued either a watch or a warning of a tornado hazard.
Late this afternoon, President Bush declared Will County a disaster area, qualifying residents and businesses to receive low-interest loans and economic assistance.
Some victims were killed when they were quite literally sucked into the sky and their bodies tossed into a cornfield adjoining an apartment complex in the nearby town of Crest Hill. At least nine residents of the apartment complex were killed, local officials said.
With six other residents of the Crest Hill Lake Apartments still missing today, police divers dragged a nearby lagoon, and a National Guardsmen searched nearby farm fields for bodies.
 
No Warning
Although Will County and much of Chicago had been under a severe storm warning, with predictions of hail and dangerous lightning, the National Weather Service did not issue tornado watches or warnings until after the storm had already touched down and caused severe damage.
Fred Ostby, director the National Severe Storm Forecast Center in Kansas City, Mo., said one reason the tornado was not detected was because current weather radar at Chicago and most other American cities is outdated. A Doppler radar system, which will be installed in Chicago in the next two years, is much better at detecting tornadoes, although he could not say for certain whether it would have picked out the tornado on Tuesday.
Paul Dailey, a meterologist in charge of the Chicago Forecast Office of the National Weather Service, says Chicago does have a older, experimental Doppler radar, but it was not working on Tuesday.
 
A Wrong Conclusion
Lacking radar data and reports of funnel clouds from spotters on the ground, Mr. Ostby said forecasters did not believe that the storm cells crossing Illinois on Tuesday, at the trailing edge of a cold front, were potent enough to produce tornadoes.
Gov. James R. Thompson toured the damaged towns this morning, and declared Will County a state disaster area. He dispatched more than 150 National Guard troops to the county to assist in clean-up operations and to patrol against looters.
Much of the area remained without telephone or electrical service late this afternoon. With skies today cloudless and temperatures in the mid-80's, volunteers, clean-up crews and residents moved through shattered neighborhoods, looking to pick up the pieces.
In the background there was the whine of chain saws cutting through fallen trees and the rumble of bulldozers pushing crumpled automobiles and debris off roads. On some highways, traffic backed up in mile-long snarls, as sightseers out to ogle the storm damage became entangled with utility trucks and convoys of National Guard trucks transporting bulldozers.
The storm churned a swath nearly 700 feet wide across miles of countryside, flattening anything in its path. At the Crest Hill Lake Aparments, the storm sheared the walls off some buildings, leaving the interiors of the apartments standing exposed, like an open-air stage set.
Cornfields ripe for the harvest looked like a giant had trod across them, the green stalks mashed into the earth. Houses exploded, littering nearby streets with splinters of lumber, glass and roofing. Trees that were not shattered by the wind had been stripped of their leaves, and were entwined instead with crumpled sheets of metal and shreds of clothing.
On Pratt Lane, down from the Leas' house, Gene Fassiotto stood in what used to be his garage, and pointed toward what was once his living room. Atop the litter of broken bricks and broken lumber was his two-month old Oldsmobile, tossed there by the storm, wheels up, like a dead turtle.
 
'We Lost Everything'
''We lived in this house 25 years,'' said Mr. Fassiotto, his eyes glazed with tears. ''And in 25 seconds, we lost everything.'' Less than 500 yards from the Fassiottos's house was the shell of St. Mary Immaculate Church and school, where at least two people, including a nun, were killed.
Officials at the National Weather Service in Chicago say they still do not know for certain whether more than one tornado moved through the area.
Temperatures on Tuesday had built into the 90's, and the air was heavy and humid when storm clouds formed just after noon. The first hint of severe weather had come nearly two hours earlier, when there was a report that a tornado had touched down near Rockford, about 80 miles to the northwest.
Late today, Don Gould, a regional office of the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, said he would investigate why the National Weather Service chose not to issue a tornado warning or watch as a result of the sighting in the Rockford area.
But Mr. Dailey, at the Chicago Forecast Office, said the sighting was not confirmed, and all other radar and forecast data gave no hint of tornadoes. ''I've done a lot of second and third guessing on myself, on the way home from work last night and today,'' said Mr. Dailey. But he said there just was not any evidence to suggest that a tornado was spawning.
 
Storms Pummel New York State
 
By The Associated Press
Powerful storms roared across upstate New York Tuesday night and early yesterday, uprooting trees, damaging buildings, flooding roads and knocking out electricity to thousands of people. Tornadoes were suspected of causing the damage in several areas. One of the worst storms struck the New York State Fairgrounds in the Syracuse suburb of Geddes at about 8 P.M. Tuesday. The storm swept up pieces of tents and stables.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A section of Plainfield, Ill., that was leveled on Tuesday by a tornado that touched down 35 miles southwest of Chicago. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE (63%); CHICAGO FORECAST OFFICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ILLINOIS; WILL COUNTY (ILL); PLAINFIELD (ILL)

SUBJECT: TORNADOES TORNADOES (91%); WEATHER SENSORS (89%); WEATHER (89%); RADAR SYSTEMS (88%); METEOROLOGY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 



884 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Judge Orders Tuna Import Ban Over Dolphin Kill

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 29

 BODY:
A Federal district judge has ordered a ban on imports of tuna fish caught by five nations until they can show that they are not killing more dolphins than United States law allows.
The judge, Thelton E. Henderson, ruled on Tuesday that the Bush Administration was taking too long in determining whether foreign fleets were complying with the United States law.
The 1988 law required an embargo on any nation whose dolphin-killing rate was more than twice the rate of the American tuna fleet.
August Felando, president of the American Tunaboat Association, the largest group of American-flagged tuna boats, said the embargo could disrupt the supply of tuna in the United States. ''The U.S. fishermen cannot supply all the tuna that's required for the U.S. market,'' he said. 
The embargo affects the nations whose boats use nets to catch yellowfin tuna in the eastern Pacific - Mexico, Panama, Venezuela, Ecuador and Vanuatu, an island nation in the Southwest Pacific.
Brenda Killian, associate director of the Earth Island Institute in San Francisco, an environmental group that brought the lawsuit, said yellowfin tuna was included in the fish canned and sold under many national and supermarket brand names as ''chunk light.''
Ms. Killian said it accounted for 20 to 30 percent of the canned yellowfin sold in this country and 5 to 8 percent sold worldwide.
 
Tuna Prices Likely to Rise
She said the ban could cause canned tuna prices to rise a few pennies a can because canners would be forced to buy tuna caught farther away in the western Pacific by methods that did not endanger dolphins.
The law imposed the embargo at the end of 1989 unless the Commerce Department determined that a nation's dolphin kill rate was under the limit, Judge Henderson said. But before enforcing the embargo, the department wanted to evaluate figures from each nation for 1989, and department officials said an assessment had not been completed.
But Judge Henderson, who was appointed to the Federal bench by President Jimmy Carter in 1980, wrote that under the agency's plan, dolphins continued to be killed and American fishermen were bearing a competitive burden as a result of delays in providing figures that were the fault of the foreign governments.
''The continued slaughter and destruction of these innocent victims of the economics of fishing constitutes an irreparable injury to us all,'' the judge wrote. In April the United States' three largest sellers of canned tuna stopped buying tuna that is caught in nets that trap dolphins. The companies - the H. J. Heinz Company, which makes the Star-Kist brand; the Van Camp Seafood Company, which markets Chicken of the Sea tuna, and Bumble Bee Seafoods Inc. - account for nearly 70 percent of the canned tuna sold in the United States.
 
How Dolphins Are Killed
Dolphins are killed in tuna fishing because they swim with schools of yellowfin tuna. Fishermen trap and drown the air-breathing dolphins as they pull in their nets around the schools of tuna.
The United States cannot regulate foreign fishing practices in international waters, but it can limit imports.
A National Marine Fisheries Service official testified at a Congressional hearing last month that foreign dolphin kills last year rose by more than 40 percent to 84,000, while United States dolphin kills dropped to 12,643.
The Commerce Department argued that the law required only that it compile information from foreign governments, which was submitted by a July 31 deadline, and decide whether each country met the legal standard.
But the Earth Island Institute contended that the law required an embargo of any nation that had not shown it met the limit by the end of last year, and Judge Henderson agreed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (61%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (61%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (61%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (61%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (60%); SIC2091 CANNED & CURED FISH & SEAFOOD (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (61%); BUMBLE BEE FOODS LLC (60%); VAN CAMP SEAFOOD CO INC (60%); CHICKEN OF THE SEA INTERNATIONAL (50%); EARTH ISLAND INSTITUTE (55%); EARTH ISLAND INSTITUTE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TUNA; DOLPHINS AND PORPOISES; FISHING, COMMERCIAL JUDGES (92%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FISHES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FINFISH FISHING (89%); SEAFOOD (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); LITIGATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); 

PERSON: HENDERSON, THELTON (JUDGE) JIMMY CARTER (57%); 



885 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Loose Ends in Gulf Policy

 BODY:
Despite President Bush's nearly flawless handling of the Persian Gulf crisis, several key issues still dangle dangerously, unresolved or unclarified.
One is the central question of whether the allies are carrying their fair share of the military and economic burden. Though Bush Administration officials are trying hard to arrange wider participation, the enterprise seems to be losing momentum. Nothing would do more to alienate ordinary Americans from the entire endeavor than the discouraging sense that the allies are making little more than a token contribution. 
A second imperative is to sort out quickly who's in charge in Saudi Arabia and surrounding waters. Separate Arab and American commands have been established, almost certainly with separate policies for using force. Unless lines of authority and policy are quickly clarified and coordinated, the costs of confusion will be high if force has to be used.
Third, there remains the complex issue of negotiations with Iraq. All the talk about victory leaves the impression that there's no room for compromise. But it's important to comprehend, before misunderstandings solidify, that at the right time certain bargains will and must be struck.
A combination of fear, outrage and Mr. Bush's rapid diplomacy persuaded many nations to respond to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait with troops, ships, money and increased oil supplies. But the depth of that help has been disappointing.
The Saudis seem to be pulling their weight - as might be expected of the country most directly threatened by Baghdad. The British have been contributing, but they, along with France, could send more troops to Saudi Arabia. Egypt's dispatch of several thousand troops simply isn't enough. President Hosni Mubarak, as the beneficiary of billions in U.S. aid and as a leader of Arab moderates, owes much more in tanks and troops.
As for Germany and Japan, neither has begun to contribute at a level equal to its need for a secure oil supply. To be sure, Bonn is preoccupied with reunification. Yet Germany would be shortsighted to underestimate its debt to America's sacrifice. That's even more true for Tokyo. Yet Japan's leaders are hesitating. They seem to have decided against honoring even their modest idea of providing up to $2 billion in critical aid to Turkey, Jordan, Oman and Egypt, four of the countries hardest hit by the crisis.
Problems also seem to be developing on the military side. There are at least two centers of authority: an Arab-Islamic command headed by Riyadh, and a joint American-Saudi command, presumably including non-Arab countries.
To further complicate matters, the Saudis say Mr. Bush has promised to consult with King Fahd -whatever that means - before launching any action from Saudi territory. Nor is it clear whether or how these joint commands are supposed to consult with other countries that have contributed forces to the region. Such confusion could be fatal in an emergency.
Of all the question marks, the biggest involves the terms of a settlement with Saddam Hussein. Certain objectives defined by Mr. Bush and the United Nations - Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait, for example - are clearly beyond compromise. But other objectives, like promoting regional stability by destroying Baghdad's chemical and nuclear facilities, for example, or creating an interim government for Kuwait, will require persuasive collective diplomacy in the event these ends are not achieved by military force.
It's important that Americans realize this and don't balk when it comes time to talk. U.S. officials have repeatedly, albeit quietly, made just that point to an unlistening public.
Any one of these issues, mishandled, could cause substantial harm to the world's cause in the gulf. Mr. Bush would serve the common cause to show he's on top of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); EGYPT (93%); IRAQ (93%); JAPAN (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); OMAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); GERMANY (68%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); 



886 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Transit Agency Seeking To Buy Grand Central

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is trying to smooth the way for development of a huge office tower on Madison Avenue as a necessary first step in its efforts to buy Grand Central Terminal and begin a $400 million renovation of the mid-Manhattan landmark.
Until it owns the 77-year-old terminal, the authority will not proceed with most of the renovation that it announced last April because, like any renter, it is reluctant to pour money into a property that it does not own.
The M.T.A. leases the terminal for use by its subsidiary, the Metro-North Commuter Railroad, from the Penn Central Corporation of Cincinnati, the successor to the New York Central Railroad, which built the terminal and rail yard. Penn Central also owns Grand Central's unused development rights, which amount to anywhere from 1.6 million to 1.9 million square feet.
''The key initial obstacle to the Grand Central master plan is getting clear title to the building,'' said Frederick S. Harris, director of real estate for the authority. 
 
Development Rights Add To Cost
But the M.T.A. does not want to buy the terminal while so many unused development rights are still associated with the property. Those would add tens of millions of dollars to the purchase price. The authority also does not want to see those development rights used to build a skyscraper directly over the landmark terminal, as Penn Central has proposed in the past.
So the authority is now trying to find a way to make it easier for a partnership of the developer G. Ware Travelstead and First Boston Inc. to use some of the 1.5 million square feet of development rights they have contracted to buy from Penn Central.
This would mean trying to break an impasse over an office tower proposed by Mr. Travelstead, and First Boston at 383 Madison Avenue, between 46th and 47th Streets. If the partnership could use enough development rights at that site, which they own, they would pledge that the balance would not be used to construct anything over Grand Central Terminal.
As proposed in 1986, their 383 Madison Avenue tower was 72 stories tall and would have used up almost 800,000 square feet of development rights. But it was rejected last year by the City Planning Commission because of its extremely high density, among other reasons, and is now caught up in a lawsuit by the developers against the city.
''I think there were a lot of good intentions on all sides,'' Mr. Harris said when asked why the M.T.A. had become involved in this tangled affair. ''But I felt everybody was locked into a position where nothing could happen. Obviously, the first place to start was the Travelstead side, because they're in litigation.''
''The M.T.A. has the potential to play a role that people hadn't recognized,'' he said.
There is no way to predict what the eventual price tag on the terminal would be, and no way of saying what effect such a purchase would have on M.T.A. operations. Depending on how the value was calculated, and depending on whether the development rights were still part of the property, the cost might be anywhere from $10 million to $150 million or more.
If 383 Madison Avenue were built under the aegis of the M.T.A., as part of the overall Grand Central transportation network, authority officials think it would be exempt from zoning rules, enabling development to proceed at a greater density than would ordinarily be permitted.
Under this scenario, part of the base of 383 Madison Avenue would be used as the entrance ramp to a new subsurface north-south truck route leading from 47th Street to a 12-bay loading dock inside the terminal. The route would be created out of a 1,000-foot-long maintenance yard that is soon to be phased out.
It is unclear how big 383 Madison Avenue might be. Under existing zoning, the structure could automatically have about 650,000 square feet of space. Under the maximum density that city planners have ever permitted on a single zoning lot in mid-Manhattan - in which the floor space is 21.6 times greater than the lot size - the building could have 930,000 square feet.
 
Debt Service an Issue
Mr. Travelstead, whose offices are in Manhattan, and First Boston are seeking a structure with 1.45 million square feet of space - the 650,000 allowed automatically, plus 800,000 in air rights. Only in that way, they argue, could they afford to own the additional 700,000 square feet of air rights that would come in their deal with the Penn Central Corporation and for which there is no development site immediately available.
''We would like 800,000 square feet at 383 Madison,'' said Frederick W. Rovet, an associate of Mr. Travelstead and a former Penn Central executive. ''If we could build a building like that, we could carry the other 700,000 square feet. We would pay the debt service on those 700,000 square feet from the profits of 383.''
But Mr. Harris said the authority believed there might be some other point - above the effective density limit set by the city and below the density sought by the developers - ''where the economics would work.''
 
City's 'Concordance' Sought
Moreover, he noted that while the proposal might not be subject to zoning rules, the authority did seek at least the acquiescence of city officials.
''It was always our expectation that all of this was unlikely to happen without the concordance of the city,'' Mr. Harris said. ''We are not the arbiters of density. We could not possibly usurp the density-setting role.''
Con Howe, the executive director of the City Planning Department, noted that ''the commission's problem was not with the applicant.'' Its problem, he said, ''was with the scale and impact of the building.''
The Planning Department has proposed its own solution to the problem of Grand Central's unused development rights, which would involve the expansion of a zoning district in which those rights would be transferrable.
 
'Vastly Out of Scale'
Kent L. Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, which has long been a leading voice in the preservation of Grand Central Terminal, said that even a structure built at the existing density limit - 930,000 square feet - would be ''vastly out of scale and totally inappropriate.''
Mr. Barwick, however, applauded the M.T.A. for seeking to resolve the ownership question. ''Neither the state, the city nor the public is going to sit still for putting $400 million into a property that belongs to what is, in effect, a bankrupt railroad,'' he said.
''It seems to be a good time for the M.T.A. to be examining its options,'' Mr. Barwick said, ''but it would be foolish for them to hitch their wagon to a star that seems to be going nowhere'' - meaning the Travelstead-First Boston proposal.
 
No Hint of Price
Robert W. Olson, senior vice president of the Penn Central Corporation, said: ''At the appropriate time, we'd be willing to sit down and negotiate with M.T.A. over the potential sale of the terminal. Obviously, it would have to be at the right price.'' He declined to provide even a hint of what the right price might be.
The actual owner of Grand Central is the New York & Harlem Railroad Company, the vestige of an operating railroad that currently has no employees and conducts no business. New York & Harlem leases the terminal to Penn Central, of which it is a subsidiary.
A spokesman for Amtrak, R. Clifford Black, said there was no discernible pattern of station ownership nationwide. Some are owned by public authorities, like South Station in Boston; some by municipalities, like the Union Passenger Terminal in New Orleans; some by Amtrak, like Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan; some by freight railroads; some by corporations, and some by individuals.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The south side of Grand Central Terminal, center, seen from Park Avenue. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is trying to buy the landmark. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. B1); map of Manhattan showing location of 383 Madison Avenue. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PC (NYSE) (89%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PREMIER UNDERWRITERS INC (84%); FIRST BOSTON INC (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA); PENN CENTRAL CORP; FIRST BOSTON INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC)

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; AIR RIGHTS; FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CITIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; TRAVELSTEAD, G WARE MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



887 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 5; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Try to Tell a Widow That Life Goes On

BYLINE: By CAROL LAWSON

 BODY:
HOME is the two top floors of a condominium apartment building in Manhattan, near Central Park, which were demolished and rebuilt over the past year as a French palace. It is a work in progress: a butler in a white jacket serves soft drinks in crystal goblets as workers on tall ladders adjust the wiring for a chandelier in the rotunda.
Rooms are filled with gilded French furniture, crystal sconces, heavy silken fabrics, towering Greek columns and hand-painted murals. It has all been planned ''so you shouldn't think you're in America,'' says its owner, Joan Rivers.
But the minute she begins talking about her life during the last three years, the far-fetched trappings of celebrity and fortune fade away. As she speaks about life on her own without her husband of 23 years, Edgar Rosenberg, Ms. Rivers sounds like widows everywhere who are groping for a way to go forward despite what nearly all agree is the most painful, wrenching and self-defeating experience they have ever faced. Even though she did not become a widow under typical circumstances - her husband committed suicide - Ms. Rivers's description of her passage through grief is not all that different from that of other women whose husbands have died. 
''You don't ever get over the loss of your husband: you survive it,'' said Ms. Rivers, who is Mrs. Rosenberg to her household staff. ''I was 52 years old and had to totally start a new existence.'' At first, she said, she turned to close friends and a psychologist for help. ''But nobody can really help you,'' she said, her brash speaking voice toned down to a soft, serious level. ''You have to help yourself. This is a solo trip.'' Few married women will escape widowhood. There are 11.5 million widows in the United States, and projections from census data suggest that nearly 80 percent of all married women can expect to be widowed, and that they will survive their husbands by about 16 years. Underlying those projections are two trends: women live longer than men, seven years on average, and men tend to marry women younger than themselves.
Ms. Rivers and other widows who have written new books on the subject all describe life as a black pit immediately after their husbands died. Philomene Gates writes in ''Suddenly Alone: A Woman's Guide to Widowhood'' (Harper & Row, $18.95) that she ''wanted to die too.'' She was married for 38 years to Samuel E. Gates, a lawyer who died of a heart attack in 1979.
Mrs. Gates, herself a lawyer in New York, goes on to write that she ''felt vulnerable, unattractive, unloved and hideously alone,'' and that ''the first few months of widowhood almost flattened me.''
''I felt my life was over,'' said Xenia Rose, whose husband the cellist Leonard Rose, died of leukemia in 1984; they had been married 20 years. ''There was no future.
''It was the worst thing that ever happened to me,'' added Mrs. Rose, a psychotherapist in New York. Her account of her experience, ''Widow's Journey: a Return to the Loving Self,'' will be published in October by Henry Holt ($19.95).
Ms. Rivers described herself as virtually starting over from scratch. Her husband was found dead from an overdose of prescription drugs in a Philadelphia hotel room on Aug. 14, 1987. His death came three months after Ms. Rivers was dismissed by the Fox Broadcasting Company from ''The Late Show,'' a ratings failure that was an attempt to topple Johnny Carson. Her husband had managed her business affairs and was the show's executive producer.
''I was totally unstrung, totally fragmented,'' Ms. Rivers said. ''I had no career. No husband. Nothing.''
''I didn't know how to turn on the outside lights or where the burglar alarm was,'' she said. ''Edgar did everything, so I could concentrate totally on my child and my career. I didn't even know the name of my bank.''
At the same time, she said, she was dealing with other issues typical of early widowhood: anger toward her husband, loss of self-esteem, friends' expectations of how she should and should not behave, rejection by married friends who felt uncomfortable socializing with a single woman, and worries about finances. She wanted to go back to work, but the combination of her talk-show failure and the circumstances of her husband's death made her unemployable.
''Nobody wants to see someone whose husband has killed himself do comedy four weeks later,'' she said.
Some widows say that initially they are so exhausted by grief that they can hardly get out of bed in the morning. ''Putting on my makeup, deciding what to wear, thinking of what I had to do - it all took as much energy as climbing Mount Everest,'' Mrs. Gates writes.
Ms. Rivers had a very different reaction. Unable to work, she funneled her energy into frenetic travel.
''I went all over,'' she said. ''To Dallas for a party, the South of France for a weekend. It was better to be in the air for 14 hours than sitting at home.''
Like many women, she has never liked being called a widow. ''It is a terrible word,'' Ms. Rivers said. ''The connotation is a lady in a long black dress who has retired from the world. And then, when you start to go out, and you laugh in a restaurant, people look at you as the Merry Widow. That's even worse.
''Part of the healing process is that you can laugh at something, even the next day, and then you start to cry again. There are terrible highs and terrible lows.''
For every widow, recovery follows an individual path. ''There are no rules for getting through this,'' said Mrs. Rose, who has remarried.
''I expected to feel 100 percent better a year after Leonard died. I felt worse.''
Mrs. Rose, who encourages widows to join support groups, said many women feel so much pressure to recover by the end of a year that ''they think they are weird if they don't.''
Laurie Graham, the author of ''Rebuilding the House: One Woman's Passage Through Grief'' (Viking, $17.95), said it was ''at least a year before I felt tentatively hopeful, but I still had terrible episodes of sadness.'' Ms. Graham, a former editor at Scribner's, was married for eight years to George Shieffelin, a retired chairman of Scribner's, who died of a heart attack in 1988.
''I was not ready to meet new people until two years after George died,'' she said.
Ms. Rivers, who has resurrected an ''ice cold'' career and is writing a book about her life, said she was ''very proud'' of what she had done on her own. ''My life now is very busy, very full and terribly lonely,'' she said.
She came close to remarrying about a year after her husband died. ''I was so desperate, so left out,'' she said. Now she sees someone on a ''semi-regular'' basis, she said, but has no plans to marry.
Mrs. Gates has rebuilt what she called ''a co-ed life.'' Although she said she still thinks of her husband ''40 times a day,'' she has worked hard to establish friendships with single men whom she can call to accompany her to parties and dances.
''I like men,'' she said, ''and I have made the most enormous effort not to have a circle of friends who are all widows.''
Ms. Rivers said she was now in ''the final phase of widowhood: you have adjusted, you are able to go on but you do not forget your husband.''
''I miss the person you can say everything to,'' she said, her eyes welling tears. ''I miss having a history with somebody. I miss getting into a car after a party and saying, 'Could you believe that?' I miss the friend, the buddy who is really in your corner. There is no one to say: 'I'm going downstairs. Do you want a sandwich?' Those are the things of widowhood that are just killers, even now.''
She took a deep breath. ''He's not going to come back, so you have to get your life going again. You must get to it, and don't wallow. A life can be made. It can even be terrific. But it's never going to be the same.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DEATHS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PAINTING (77%); MARRIAGE (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); CENSUS (64%); SOFT DRINKS (57%); SUICIDE (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



888 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
The Oil Jolt
After weeks of deliberations, OPEC authorized its key producers to begin immediately pumping all the oil they can, averting a feared world shortage that has sent prices surging on world markets. The decision is expected to add some four million barrels a day to current world supplies, making up for nearly all the exports lost in the Iraq embargo. [Page A1.] 
Oil prices fell sharply as traders responded to the OPEC decision to lift output as well as to reduced fears of war. The contract for October delivery fell $1.96, to $25.92 a barrel. [D1.]
Venezuela, a ''safe source'' of supply, is expanding its oil industry in hopes of playing a larger role as an exporter, especially to the United States. [D1.]
The drilling of test wells in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge should be considered, Interior Secretary Lujan said. [B10.]
 
 
 
The Economy
Frightened Americans might finally be pushing the U.S. into recession, after months of weak economic growth. Two leading indexes of consumer confidence, which for many economists is the most sensitive measure of the nation's vulnerability to recession, plunged sharply in August. [D1.]
Resolution Trust will name an overseer to ferret out corruption among Federal officials and private firms managing the assets of failed savings institutions. [D2.]
Mired in a slow back-to-school season, America's retailers have expressed deep concern that the Middle East crisis will hurt their business even further in the weeks heading into the all-important Christmas season. [D4.]
The index of leading indicators was unchanged in July from June, the Commerce Department said. [D4.]
New-home sales fell 2.3 percent in July, the fifth drop in seven months, the Government said. [D4.]
 
 
 
Companies
Donald J. Trump is about to enter Round 2 of his financial crisis, and the sale of the Plaza Hotel is likely. [D1.]
A patent said to cover the microprocessor has been issued to a virtually unknown inventor, shocking the industry. [D1.]
Fujitsu introduced two powerful supercomputers and an operating system that can run all the company's computers. [D3.]
The M.T.A. is setting out to buy Grand Central Terminal from its owner, the Penn Central Corporation, in a complex deal. [B1.]
 
International
The Bank of Japan raised its discount rate for the fifth time in a little more than a year, to 6 percent from 5.25 percent. [D1.]
 
 
 
Markets
The stock market continued to gain, posting its fourth advance in a row. The Dow rose 17.58, to 2,632.43. [D8.]
Interest rates fell and the price of Treasury securities rose, with the 30-year bond jumping more than a point. [D7.]
The dollar moved mostly higher in the U.S. after a mixed performance overseas. [D14.]
Precious metals futures halted their plunge, largely disregarding a sharp drop in energy futures prices. [D14.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Contel provides another example of a company forced into a deal at least in part because of debt it took on to make acquisitions. Talking Deals. [D2.]
In-Store Advertising went from darling to pariah, and one big holder bailed out just in time. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
Miles agreed to stop making health claims in advertising for its One-A-Day vitamins. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (52%); 6702 (TSE) (52%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ARCTIC (71%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PREMIER UNDERWRITERS INC (63%); FUJITSU LTD (52%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BONDS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FUTURES (73%); METALS MARKETS (72%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); RETAILERS (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (65%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (53%); WILDLIFE (53%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



889 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Japan Lifts Discount Rate to 6%

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Despite denials just a day earlier, the Bank of Japan said this morning that it was raising its discount rate for the fifth time in a little more than a year. The new rate is 6 percent, from 5.25 percent, effective today.
The news was a clear signal that the Japanese Government remained concerned about inflationary pressures building in the solidly expanding economy.
The pressures were growing even before Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, but the subsequent rise in oil prices heightened worries among policy makers in Japan that they would have to act to squelch rising prices. Japan imports nearly all its energy supply and is thus particularly vulnerable to oil price rises. 
 
Higher Prime Rate
The official announcement came after increases in other important market-related rates. Last week, banks announced that they were raising their long-term prime rate to 8.5 percent, from 7.9 percent, a steep increase that will have a more direct effect on borrowers, ranging from corporations to home buyers, than the increase in the discount rate, which affects certain short-term loans to banks.
The discount rate, which also acts as a benchmark for other interest rates, has been increased five times and has more than doubled since May 1989, when it stood at 2.5 percent. It was last increased on March 20, to 5.25 percent.
The increases in various Japanese rates could have some impact over time on the American financial markets. With the United States discount rate at 7 percent, the gap between the countries has narrowed.
Richard Koo, an economist at the Nomura Research Institute here, said Japanese bonds would now be more attractive to Japanese investors, and would thus reduce the flow of capital to the American bond market.
Although it is unclear just how much of an effect that could have, it might put some slight upward pressure on American interest rates, he said.
 
Unexpected Timing
There had been hints that the announcement was coming, but the timing was unexpected. The central bank issued its statement early on Thursday in Tokyo, before the markets here opened. The central bank usually makes its announcements in late afternoon after the markets close.
As is often the case in Japan, the news had been leaked to Japanese newspapers, two of which reported on Wednesday that the rate rise was imminent. The central bank governor, Yasushi Mieno, denied the reports on Wednesday afternoon, but few believed him.
Since the move had been anticipated, the announcement had little effect on financial markets here. The Nikkei index of 225 issues rose initially, then began to slide, ending the morning session up just 34.68 points at 24,929.47. It had fallen sharply on Wednesday amid the reports that a rate rise was imminent. The dollar also firmed slightly early today.
 
Classic Signs Abound
Mr. Koo, the economist, and several others also said the increases were likely to slow the Japanese economy, which has been showing classic signs of overheating in recent months. Consumer prices are expected to rise less than 3 percent this year, but the labor market is tight, factories are running at capacity and overall growth is still expected at about 5 percent.
''The Bank of Japan did a good job moving so fast because if they had delayed, the situation would have deteriorated fast,'' said Susumu Kato, the chief economist in Tokyo for Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Mr. Kato added that the jump in the prime rate meant that real interest rates, the cost of borrowings after inflation is discounted, were now about 6 percent, much higher than the expected growth rate for the economy. The result, he said, is that growth may slow in the coming months. Implications for U.S. The rate increase may prove particularly important for policy makers in the United States, who are struggling to keep the American economy out of a recession. Some economists have said they fear that higher Japanese rates may lift the value of the yen against the dollar.
Should the American currency fall too fast, they have contended, the Federal Reserve may be forced to raise American interest rates, or at least not permit them to decline, to defend the dollar. The worry is that that could help push the economy towards a recession.
But several days may be needed to determine the overall reaction. The dollar actually strengthened slightly, to 143.45 yen from 143.20 yen, before the announcement this morning. Traders said that was because the move was expected.
''For the time being, it's just a big yawn,'' a foreign exchange trader said. ''Wait a while and see what the U.S. does.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 4307 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INFLATION (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: SUSUMU KATO (56%); RICHARD KOO (55%); 



890 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela's New Oil Prominence

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAGUNILLAS, Venezuela

 BODY:
The lines of oil wells that stretch across Lake Maracaibo here are pumping higher volumes of crude to help offset the shortage caused by the embargo of oil from Iraq and Kuwait.
By the end of September, an extra 350,000 barrels a day should be flowing from Venezuelan oilfields, and by the end of December nearly 500,000 more barrels a day. Two-thirds of that oil is likely to be sold to the United States, Venezuela's largest customer. Last year, Venezuela sold a million barrels a day to the United States, 18 percent of American oil imports and about half of the country's total production. 
With war preparations gripping the Persian Gulf, it is no surprise that American eyes are suddenly turning to Venezuela, which likes to style itself as a ''safe source'' nation, unlike those in the troubled Middle East. And Venezuela holds the world's largest proven oil reserves outside the Middle East - 59 billion barrels.
''When you buy the cheap oil of the Middle East, you're not calculating the cost of defending the Middle East,'' said Antonio Cassella, planning manager for Petroleos de Venezuela, the state oil company, known as PDVSA.
But beyond the short-term production increases, Venezuela, one of Latin America's oldest and most stable democracies, is poised to play a newly prominent role in the United States energy scene well into the 1990's.
Moves that Venezuela is already making in that direction include a $24 billion six-year capital investment plan by PDVSA that was started months before the current Middle East troubles, and new policies to encourage foreign investment. There is also the geographical proximity to the United States.
Most of the oil will come from Maracaibo, an oil-soaked region in western Venezuela where decades of production have caused the ground to sink by as much as 15 feet.
An oil tanker leaving Maracaibo takes just four days to reach the East Coast of the United States. That compares with the 30 days it takes a tanker to reach the United States from Saudi Arabia, Venezuela's traditional competitor as America's top foreign supplier. That means not only lower transportation costs, but more flexibility for changing orders on short notice. 4th-Largest Oil Company The story of Venezuela's energy exports in the 1990's will largely center on PDVSA, the fourth-largest oil company in the world, according to Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, which bases its rankings on ownership of reserves, production and refining capacity, among other factors. The company ranks behind only Aramco of Saudi Arabia, Royal/Dutch Shell of the Netherlands, and Exxon.
In contrast to widespread negative stereotypes of state companies, the Venezuelan company is profitable and is considered to be professionally managed. But it has found itself hemmed in by production quotas.
Not known as a successful negotiator within the Arab-dominated Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Venezuela has seen its quota share of OPEC production drop almost in half over 20 years, from 16 percent in 1970 to 8.6 percent today. But Venezuela was a prime engineer behind OPEC's decision to authorize its members to start pumping all they could to make up for the embargo against Iraq and Kuwait.
 
New Technologies a Concern
Noting that many Arab oil producers cheat on their quotas, oil company executives here had been bitter about Venezuela's regular OPEC quota of 1.945 million barrels a day.
''The question of how long our oil will last is irrelevent,'' said Alberto Quiros Corradi, a former president of one of PDVSA's 11 subsidiaries. ''The question is: Will new technologies replace oil before we run out of oil?''
The company has invested aggressively in extending control over production, refining and marketing. It ranked as the second most profitable company in the world in 1989, after a Brazilian state mining company, according to Fortune magazine's survey of the world's 500 largest corporations. Using the same formula, profits as a percent of assets, the survey ranked the company as the most profitable oil concern in the world.
The company startled Americans by paying $700 million last November to complete its purchase of Citgo Petroleum. Through Citgo, Venezuelan oil has priority access to 8,500 affiliated gasoline stations.
 
More Profitable Than Pemex
When compared with Latin America's other oil-exporting giant, Petroleos Mexicanos, the contrast is striking.
Both companies had roughly similar sales volumes in 1989 - $15.2 billion for Pemex, and $13.7 billion for PDVSA. But Pemex had more than triple the labor force - 165,000 workers compared with 47,000 for PDVSA. The Venezuelan company was 8.5 times as profitable as Pemex in 1989: $2.7 billion, compared with $320 million for the Mexican company.
''For a state-run company, PDVSA is admirably run,'' said an American diplomat in Caracas. ''There is very little smell of corruption, and they think in terms of businessmen.''
Much of the profit comes from the extraordinary energy wealth of Venezuela, which is larger than Texas and Oklahoma combined.
The cost of oil exploration averages 10 cents per discovered barrel - literally pennies when compared with the $5-a-barrel average in the United States. Oil production costs here average $2.50 a barrel - less than 10 percent of the current international sales price.
Last year, the company accounted for 75 percent of Venezuela's $12 billion export earnings and for 17 percent of the nation's $79 billion gross domestic product.
In 1975, when PDVSA was formed from multinational companies, the company refined 40 percent of its product. Now it refines 80 percent.
 
One Soft Spot
The company's only major soft spot is domestic sales. Those operations had a $286 million loss last year. High-octane gasoline is sold here for 26 cents a gallon, cheaper than bottled water. Street riots have greeted Government efforts to raise the price, which may be the world's lowest.
The company is in the midst of an ambitious expansion program. These are some of the goals for 1995:
* An increase in crude production potential by 30 percent, to 3.5 million barrels a day.
* An increase in domestic refining capacity by 25 percent, to 1.5 million barrels a day.
* A tripling of petrochemical production, to 10 million tons a year, and a doubling of natural gas production, to the equivalent of 200,000 barrels of oil a day.
Plans also call for building, with foreign participation, a $3 billion liquefied natural gas plant and increasing coal production sixfold, to 10 million tons a year.
 
Price Relief Is Sought
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras, Aug. 29 (AP) - Five Central American countries have asked Mexico and Venezuela for relief from the increase in oil prices prompted by the Middle East crisis.
''The military invasion of Kuwait by Iraq, which deeply concerns our people, will affect the world petroleum market and will bring inevitable political and economic consequences for Central America,'' the President of Honduras, Rafael Leonardo Callejas, said yesterday.
Under a 10-year-old agreement, the five countries have been buying Venezuelan and Mexican oil for an average of $17 a barrel, paying 80 percent in cash. The other 20 percent is used as loans for development projects, or to finance imports from Venezuela and Mexico.
The proposal made today calls for payment to be made in 70 percent cash and 30 percent loans. The other four nations are El Salvador, Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Venezuela is increasing crude oil production from Lake Maracaibo platforms to help ease the worldwide oil shortage. Hugo E. Marin is an operations executive with a subsidiary of Petroleos de Venezuela. (James Brooke for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (52%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: MARACAIBO, VENEZUELA (88%); 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (90%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



891 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Oil Drops Nearly $2 A Barrel

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Oil prices fell sharply yesterday as traders responded to the decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to allow an immediate increase in oil production, as well as to reduced fears of war in the Persian Gulf.
The contract for October delivery of oil fell $1.96 a barrel, to $25.92, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. So far this week, the October price for oil has plunged $4.99 a barrel.
Gasoline and heating oil prices also retreated yesterday. 
The energy market has focused on diplomatic moves to ease Middle East tensions and on the OPEC decision, which is expected to add some four million barrels a day to current world oil supplies, making up for nearly all the oil exports lost as a result of the embargo imposed on Iraq and Iraqi-occupied Kuwait.
News of the OPEC decision, reached yesterday in Vienna, drove prices down by about $1 a barrel in early trading, said Bradford H. Hughes, an energy futures trader at Cargill Investor Services.
 
Offer by Hussein Reported
Prices fell another dollar on reports that Saddam Hussein, Iraq's president, was taking a more conciliatory stance on his country's occupation of Kuwait, Mr. Hughes said. The Iraqi leader was reported to have offered to allow all Western men to join Western women and children in leaving Kuwait and Iraq, if the United States would guarantee that it would not attack Iraq.
But yesterday's fall in oil prices is unlikely to cause an immediate reduction in gasoline prices, refiners said. Even at $25.92 a barrel, the Chevron Corporation is still paying 17.3 cents a gallon more for oil than its average payment in July, about double the 8 to 10 cents a gallon increase in the wholesale prices it charges dealers for gasoline, said James E. Huccaby, the manager of pricing for Chevron USA.
The Amoco Corporation said the prices it charged dealers for gasoline had risen 16 cents since July 1, while oil costs had climbed 22 cents.
In futures trading yesterday, the contract for September delivery of gasoline fell 3.81 cents a gallon, to close at 84.72 cents, while the contract for September delivery of heating oil tumbled 7.88 cents, to close at 71.64 cents a gallon.
Prices of oil for delivery next year fell less sharply yesterday than the October price of oil. This is an indication that the markets are becoming less anxious and less willing to pay a premium for oil available soon, said Philip K. Verleger Jr., an energy economist at the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
''It's the first small step back toward the situation at the end of July,'' he said. ''That'll last until the first gunshot is fired.''
Chevron and the Shell Oil Company, a unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, announced yesterday morning that they were immediately cutting by $3, to $26.50, the posted price they would pay for West Texas Intermediate crude oil, the American benchmark grade.
Bonner & Moore, Houston, a consulting firm to the oil and petrochemical refining industries, said the announcement in Vienna underscored a consensus among the 10 OPEC members voting for it that they wanted to avoid a sustained surge above $30 a barrel, for fear that such prices could push the industrial nations - their largest customers - into recession.
 
'Possibility of a Powder Keg'
At the meeting, only Iran opposed the accord, as did Iraq and Libya, which did not attend the meeting. Iraq has said it would regard higher production by other OPEC members as an act of aggression.
''We still have the possibility of a powder keg as long as there is a heightened military presence in the Middle East,'' said Craig Whitley, a futures market analyst at Bonner & Moore. ''We are still holding to our belief for the long term that OPEC will make up most of the shortfall in production.''
Bonner & Moore forecasts that oil will cost $24 a barrel during the first half of 1991 and $22 for the second half.
Saudi Arabian officials said yesterday that they had already increased production to 7.5 million barrels a day from 5.5 million and would lift their output to 8 million barrels a day by September. Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates are also commited to raising production.
Other OPEC members are expected to raise output to keep up their oil revenues, including Iran and Libya, which opposed the accord.

GRAPHIC: Chart showing the price for a barrel of crude oil for October deliverty on the New York Mercantile Exchange since the start of July. (source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter) (pg. D17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (83%); RDSA (LSE) (81%); RDSA (AMS) (81%); RDS.B (NYSE) (81%); RDS.A (NYSE) (81%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (93%); GULF STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (72%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (83%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (81%); AMOCO CORP (64%); SHELL OIL CO (60%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); CARGILL INVESTOR SERVICES INC (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); FUEL DEALERS (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); WHOLESALERS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 



892 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence In Worrisome Drop

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Two major indexes of consumer confidence, which for many economists is the most sensitive measure of a nation's vulnerability to recession, plunged sharply in August, indicating that frightened Americans might finally be pushing the United States into a recession, after months of weak economic growth.
The indexes, from the University of Michigan and the Conference Board, measure the willingness of consumers to make purchases. Sharp plunges in consumer confidence, if they endure for several months, have set off recessions in the past because unexpected shocks, like the Iraq crisis, have prompted Americans to cut back suddenly on purchases, even though they had the income and the borrowing power to keep on buying.
 
A Possible Chain of Events
The August plunge in consumer confidence might herald such a blow. If the Middle East shock were to endure, then the sudden pullback in buying could cause inventories to pile up at stores, warehouses and factories. Orders for new goods would be canceled, thousands of workers would be laid off, production would fall as unemployment rose, and a recession would be born, perhaps before the end of the year. 
''In the coming month, we will know whether this sudden drop in confidence will endure or even worsen,'' said Richard T. Curtin, director of Consumer Surveys at the University of Michigan. ''If there is no rebound, then we must talk of recessionary cutbacks in consumer spending. The economy is certainly vulnerable.''
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, considers consumer confidence to be an important indicator of what is ahead for the economy. His concern might translate into lower interest rates if the indexes were to remain at their current low levels through September.
Similar lasting blows to consumer confidence played major roles in the 1974-75 and 1980 recessions. The Arab oil embargo, which started in October 1973, was soon followed by recession as fuel costs rose abruptly and Americans cut back on their spending.
President Jimmy Carter's credit restrictions, in early 1980, also helped to bring on a recession. Trying to reduce inflation, the President and the Fed restricted the use of credit cards, and millions of Americans responded by putting their cards away. A six-month recession developed, in which the gross national product contracted at an alarming annual rate of 9 percent.
The impact of the Iraq crisis on consumer buying is not yet certain. So far, only scattered sales data are available for August to gauge whether the drop in consumer confidence actually translated into a cutback in purchases. The initial data show that already weak auto and truck sales fell a notch in August and that sales of household goods have also declined from July levels. In addition, some department stores reported slow back-to-school sales of clothing and supplies.
The Michigan Survey for August, compiled yesterday for formal release later this week, shows that Michigan's consumer confidence index fell 11.8 points, from 88.2 in July, to 76.4, the lowest level since the 1982 recession. The index is based on survey questions that probe how 500 people across the country feel about job prospects, wages and the economy in general, both currently and for the next six months. During the first seven months of 1990, the index declined by only 4.8 points, from 93 last January.
A separate index in the Michigan survey that breaks out only the expectations for the next six months -an index that has foreshadowed recessions more accurately than the overall index - fell even more sharply, to 62.9 in August, from 77.3 in July. This index had also declined gradually in the first seven months of the year, from 83.4 in January.
 
Conference Board Report
The Conference Board, a business organization, reported similar results for its August survey of 5,000 people. The overall consumer confidence index dropped to 83.8 in August, from 101.7 in July, and the index measuring what people think will happen to salaries, jobs and the national economy over the next six months plunged to 73.4, from 91.8 in July. In each case, the decline over the first seven months of the year was gradual: a loss of less than 6 points.
''What happened in August may be an initial panic reaction and we may get a rebound in September,'' said Jason Bram, a Conference Board economist. ''If the indexes bounce back more than half way, then we can look back and say it was only an initial shock reaction.''
That could be the case. The Conference Board's survey questions were mailed to households on Aug. 1, the day before Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Replies received toward the middle of the month were slightly more optimistic than earlier responses, Mr. Bram said. The Michigan survey, a telephone poll, was spread out over the entire month, and the replies toward the middle of the month were also more optimistic.
''But the improvement then halted,'' Mr. Curtin said. ''We have not seen any improvement for the past two weeks.''
 
Contrast With October 1987
For either survey, the August plunge was the sharpest for a single month since the stock market crash on Oct. 19, 1987. Confidence quickly rebounded in 1987, but the crash occurred during a period of strong economic growth. What's more, the Fed, concerned about damage to the nation's banks and brokerage houses, quickly lowered interest rates.
Almost the opposite is the case now. The Iraq crisis comes after 15 months of sluggish economic growth. And the Fed, apparently more concerned about inflation than recession, has resisted lowering interest rates, out of concern that inflation might be a greater risk than recession.
The surveys help to support this concern. Aside from the plunge in consumer confidence, both surveys showed that Americans had suddenly decided that inflation would rise because of higher oil prices. In both cases, consumer inflation forecasts of less than 4 percent a year were raised to 5.5 percent or more.

GRAPHIC: Chart of the Conference Board's consumer expectation index, which shows a sharp drop for the month of August. (source: The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD INC (81%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; CONFERENCE BOARD

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); RETAILERS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); STATISTICS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); MARKETING SURVEYS (58%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); JIMMY CARTER (55%); 



893 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Talking Deals;
'Paralyzed' Contel In GTE's Grasp

BYLINE: By Keith Bradsher

 BODY:
THE Contel Corporation, which earlier this month signed a definitive agreement to be purchased by the GTE Corporation, provides another example of a company forced into a deal at least in part because of debt it took on to make acquisitions.
The $5 billion deal with GTE, which is scheduled to close by the end of the year, will create the nation's largest provider of local phone service and the second-largest cellular phone company, with $25 billion in annual revenues and both good and bad implications for employees and consumers.
Although it ended up as a friendly deal, Contel initially sought to preserve its independence.
GTE first approached Contel with a merger proposal in April, the chairmen of both companies said in separate interviews. Russell E. Palmer, the chairman of the GTE board's strategic planning committee and the dean until July 1 of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, informally suggested the idea over breakfast at the Intercontinental Hotel in New York to a friend, I. W. Burnham 2d. Mr. Burnham, a founder and retired chairman of the now-bankrupt investment firm, Drexel Burnham Lambert, is a member of the Contel board's executive committee and a trustee of the University of Pennsylvania. 
James L. Johnson, the chairman and chief executive of GTE, said the decision to send Mr. Palmer to broach a possible merger was not made casually by GTE's board. ''Knowing he had a good relationship with Mr. Burnham, we all as a group figured it might be a good opportunity to explore it,'' he said.
Contel's senior management quickly rejected the idea, which did not include a specific offer, said Mr. Burnham and Charles Wohlstetter, Contel's chairman, in separate interviews. Mr. Wohlstetter said he opposed a merger then, and remains unhappy that the company he built from a single employee in 1961 is likely to lose its independence by the end of the year. ''We didn't want this,'' he said. ''We didn't invite it.'' What made the merger necessary, Mr. Wohlstetter said, was a steep fall in Contel's share price in early summer. The stock dropped to $27 a share, from $32, just as the company was preparing to issue $400 million worth of stock to redeem short-term debt incurred in a $1.3 billion acquisition of cellular telephone franchises last year from McCaw Communications Inc.
The $5 drop would have forced Contel to issue many more shares, reducing earnings per share, to raise the $400 million. Mr. Wohlstetter said that GTE then ''came back through the same director and said, 'Why do you want to sell stock at a price like that?' '' This second approach was also tempting to Contel's board because of GTE's willingness to issue 1.27 shares for each share of Contel stock, so that the annual dividend received by Contel shareholders would climb to $2.01 from $1.10, Mr. Burnham said. The McCaw deal had made it virtually impossible for Contel to raise its dividend for at least five years, he said.
Two other concerns were a possible downgrading of Contel's debt rating and the company's inability to finance any further large acquisitions for years to come. ''We're paralyzed,'' Mr. Wohlstetter said. ''There's nothing Contel can do alone because we can't extend ourselves. we're not an RJR Nabisco or ''junk bond'' company.'' He noted Contel is a regulated phone company with fairly cautious shareholders who expect regular dividends.
Contel's board accepted GTE's terms and agreed in principle on June 12 to a merger. Some Contel employees and Wall Street analysts have argued that Mr. Wohlstetter should have demanded a higher price.
The merger's effect on consumers will vary. The greater size and visibility of the combined company will probably make it more difficult to win rate increases for local phone service, said an investment banker involved in the deal. But the combination of their many cellular phone franchises might reduce competition in that industry, because a move by a large cellular phone chain to cut cellular service prices in one city can provoke the rival chain in the city to retaliate with lower prices where the two companies compete.
When two companies compete in many different markets, they are more likely to avoid cutting prices in any one market for fear that a price war will spread, economists say.
To eliminate redundant operations and shave costs after the merger, the combined company would have to cut its work force, Charles R. Lee, the president and chief operating officer of GTE, said at an analysts' meeting last week. GTE has already had some layoffs. ''There will be more pain, and there will be additional reductions in employees as a result of this merger,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TALKING DEALS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (93%); VZ (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTEL CORP; GTE CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (68%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CHARLES WOHLSTETTER (83%); 



894 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Slow Back-to-School Sales Hurting U.S. Retailers

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Mired in a slow back-to-school season, America's biggest retailers have expressed deep concern that the Middle East crisis will hurt their business even further in the weeks heading into the all-important Christmas season.
The industry has been in difficult straits all year, and new gloom has been added by soft sales of school supplies and clothing, although traditionally the bulk of these sales are not made until the Labor Day weekend.
Still, the slow start and declining consumer confidence stemming in part from the Persian Gulf dispute are strong new blows for heavily indebted retail chains like Macy's, Federated/Allied stores, which operates Bloomingdale's, and Ames Department Stores.
 
Poor Season Is Feared
These new factors could mean that the 32-day Christmas shopping period that begins after Thanksgiving Day could be even more crucial than usual for many retailers. For some it may be the difference between normal operations and insolvency, or even liquidation. 
In fact, many store executives and industry analysts are already predicting a poor holiday season, one that may be even worse than last year's. They said they expected to see a wave of price cutting as great as or even greater than that during the Christmas season last year. That would be good news for consumers looking for low prices, but would severely hurt retailers' profits.
While most Christmas goods have already been ordered, some stores are trying to cut back on the remainder until the situation in the Middle East has clarified.
 
Costs Increasing
If there is no change, most retail executives expect the sluggish consumer buying to worsen. They are being told by their suppliers that merchandise prices will rise because of higher oil prices and they say their operating costs, particularly for fuel, are already on the way up.
Perhaps more important, the Middle East crisis is having an adverse effect on the consumer's buying attitude, now emotionally charged by the callup of reservists, said retailers and consultants in interviews this week.
''The research data we are getting tell us that a large portion of the population will reduce its spending,'' said Bernard Brennan, chairman and chief executive of Montgomery Ward. ''On top of the Mideast crisis itself, the callup of reserves is creating a lot of emotion. It is adding to the concern many people feel.''
Walter F. Loeb, a New York retailing consultant, said he has surveyed major catalogue company business and found fall volume off at Sears, Roebuck, J. C. Penney and Spiegel Inc. ''They are running behind last year at those companies, and other cataloguers also see a slowdown,'' Mr. Loeb said. ''Catalogue business usually gives a signal of retail sales, so the forecast isn't good.''
 
A Fuel Bill Soars
The Middle East crisis has already brought about these developments:
* Wal-Mart Stores, the Arkansas-based discounter, says its fuel bill for diesel trucks will jump by $1 million a month because of a rise of 15 cents a gallon.
* J. C. Penney estimates slippage of at least one-half to 1 percent in expected sales gains, which translates into millions of dollars, for the rest of the year and into 1991.
* Montgomery Ward reports that suppliers have said they will raise their prices by 5 to 7 percent for spring merchandise.
But some of these retailers also see the possibility of a better outcome. If the Middle East situation eases or there is assurance of peace, consumer attitudes could improve considerably for the Christmas season, they say. That would lead to a strong wrap-up in sales and profits that could turn 1990 into a better year than 1989.
Some executives, like David Glass, Wal-Mart's president and chief executive, feel that the Middle East confrontation will be short-lived. But all those interviewed believe that the longer the crisis lasts, the greater the harm to sales, employment and the economy in general.
 
'Perception Is Reality'
''The longer it lasts, the more consumer psychology will be affected,'' said Tom Gould, president and chief executive of Younker's, a Des Moines chain of 36 department stores operating in five states. ''People already are thinking of the possibility of a recession with inflation. When they see gasoline going up from $1.35 a gallon to $1.55 in 10 days, they begin to worry that they can afford things. In our business, perception is reality.''
Robert Gill, vice chairman and chief operating officer at J. C. Penney, said, ''We have sensed a slowdown in general in the retail sector.'' He added, ''Business is spotty around the country, and particularly weak in the Northeast area, and our sales have been less than we planned for.''
John J. Schultz, president of retail services at the National Retail Federation, a trade association, said, ''What would have been a slam-dunk affair this Christmas against last year's terrible season now makes for a pessimistic outlook.''
''If the Mideast affair continues unchecked, sales will lose a couple of expected percentage points and retailers will be cautious on building inventories,'' he added. ''In that case, they will be lucky to make last year's Christmas figures, and with inflation, actually lose business.''
The Dayton Hudson Corporation, based in Minneapolis, seems to be bucking the trend. Karol D. Emmerich, vice president and treasurer of the department store chain, said: ''So far, we are surprised by the lack of impact on our sales. We feared some immediate shock, as we did in 1974 during that oil crisis. But perhaps it is because our promotional divisions concentrate on basics, which are less affected by downturns.''
 
Grim Retail Forecast
CHICAGO, Aug. 29 (Reuters) - Because too many stores are competing for consumers' dollars, the next 10 years will be among the toughest for retailers since the Depression, according to a study released this week. ''Some industry observers predict that as many as 50 percent of existing retailers will no longer be in business by the end of the decade,'' the Harris Bank of Chicago said in its annual retail study.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448320 LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (61%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (61%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (61%); NAICS424340 FOOTWEAR MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (61%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (72%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: EDDIE BAUER INC (61%); AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (56%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOLIDAY TRADE; CHRISTMAS RETAILERS (95%); CHRISTMAS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE



895 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Unchanged

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The Government's main guide for forecasting the direction of the economy was unchanged in July from June, the Commerce Department said today, and economists predicted it would soon point downward because of the Persian Gulf crisis.
The index of leading indicators, a basket of measures for gauging future economic activity, was unchanged in July after rising a revised one-tenth of 1 percent in June and six-tenths of 1 percent in May.
The index showed a glimmer of strength in higher orders for manufactured goods, which analysts said could keep the economy out of recession. But the July number did not reflect the plunge in consumer confidence, a component of the index, since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2. 
 
Optimism Fades
The Conference Board, a New York business research group, said Monday that consumer optimism about the economy was at its lowest level in more than seven years because of the Middle East crisis, which has sent energy prices soaring.
''We still think the economy has enough momentum to avoid a recession,'' said Darryl Delano, senior economist with Cahners Economics in Newton, Mass. ''But this index is likely to be down sharply in August.''
The index of leading indicators is designed to forecast the economy's direction six to nine months in advance. Financial markets showed little response to the report because the July data have been overshadowed by events in the Middle East.
 
Sluggish G.N.P. Growth
Mr. Delano said he had revised downward his forecast for total 1990 growth in the gross national product to 1.4 percent, from 2 percent, but believed stronger overseas sales would keep the United States out of recession. The declining dollar has made United States products more competitive in foreign markets.
The G.N.P. grew at a sluggish 1.2 percent annual rate between April and June, down from 1.7 percent in the first quarter.
In addition to higher plant and equipment orders in July, there were also increases in commodity prices and consumer expectations.
But seven other indicators were negative, including stock prices, which fell, and jobless claims, which rose. One indicator, orders for consumer goods, was unchanged.
Gordon Richards, an economist for the National Association of Manufacturers, said the report understated the economy's weakness.
''While these figures indicate that the economy was already sluggish prior to the Middle East crisis, they do not point to the emergence of a recession,'' Mr. Richards said. ''Since this time, however, the sharp rise in world oil prices has made a downturn almost inevitable.''
He said consumer confidence has been ''fatally undermined'' by concern over possible war in the Middle East.
 
Economy 'Going Sideways'
Lynn Reaser, senior economist with First Interstate Bancorp in Los Angeles, said the index in July was at the same level as it was in January 1989. ''It points to an economy that has been going sideways since then,'' she said.
Other negative indicators in July included longer delivery times for vendors, a lower money supply, fewer unfilled orders, a shorter workweek and fewer building permits.
The June index was previously reported as unchanged and May was reported up seven-tenths of 1 percent, but those figures were revised on the basis of updated data.

GRAPHIC: Chart of index of 11 leading indicators designed to predict overall economic activity (source: Commerce Department); graphic: Leading Indicators: Component Analysis (source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); GULF STATES (90%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: DARRYL DELANO (58%); GORDON RICHARDS (55%); 



896 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Funds Show Mixed Yields

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields of tax-exempts and taxable money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report were mixed for the week ended yesterday.
Donoghue's analysts said that while short-term interest rates were steady in the reporting week, long-term rates were up considerably because of the uncertainties created by the crisis in the Persian Gulf, the weak dollar and fears of higher inflation caused by rising oil prices.
Tax-exempt money fund managers appeared to reposition themselves in the week by increasing the average maturity of the securities they held by 8 days, to 57 days. 
 
Securing Higher Rates
Analysts said the managers may have been trying to lock in the higher yields of the last few weeks for a longer term. They said a move by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase production would take pressure off oil prices and might lead to lower interest rates.
Cash flow into tax-exempt funds during the past few weeks has been erratic because of volatility in the financial markets. Assets fell by $393 million in the week ended yesterday, to $80.7 billion. They had risen $755 million in the previous week.
The average seven-day tax-exempt compounded yield increased by 8 basis points, to 5.34 percent, and the 30-day average yield rose by 3 basis points, to 5.25 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The equivalent taxable seven-day compounded yield of tax-exempt funds was 7.41 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket and 7.97 percent for the 33 percent bracket.
 
The Highest Return
Among tax-exempt funds with assets of more than $100 million survyed by IBC/Donoghue's, the USAA Tax Exempt Money Market Fund showed the highest return for the second consecutive week, with a yield of 6.02 percent. The fund is distributed by the USAA Investment Management Company of San Antonio.
Of the funds investing primarily in New York State securities, the General New York Money Market fund distributed by Dreyfus had the highest yield, 5.69 percent.
For taxable funds, assets increased by $475 million in the week, to $400.9 billion, a new high. Institutional assets declined by $528 million, to $85.1 billion, while consumer funds added more than $1 billion, to $315.8 billion.
The average days to maturity of securities held in managers' portfolios was unchanged, at 45.
Donoghue's said the seven-day compounded average yield for taxable money market funds fell by 4 basis points, to 7.76 percent in the week.

GRAPHIC: Charts: Consumer Money Rates (sources: Bank Rate Monitor, IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report); Maturities (source: Donoghue's Money Fund Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: USAA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (79%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); INFLATION (72%); EXPORT TRADE (53%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT



897 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Bonds Post Solid Gains

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Interest rates fell and the price of Treasury securities rose yesterday, with the benchmark long bond jumping more than a point. The gains were fueled by a drop in oil prices and rising hopes among market participants that the Federal Reserve Board may move to ease short-term interest rates soon, perhaps by the end of the week.
In conjunction with a drop in oil prices, which fell to $25.92 a barrel, their lowest level in three weeks, traders said that an apparent softening of Iraq's negotiating stance seems to have reduced the chances of war in the Persian Gulf. The third positive for market participants was a successful auction of $8.5 billion worth of new five-year Treasury notes. 
''It could all change with one gunshot, but right now everything is going in the right direction for the market,'' said Mitchell Stafman, head of the government trading desk at Chemical Bank.
If oil prices stabilized at current levels over the next few days, the Federal Reserve Board might be persuaded to refocus its attention on the weak economy and to lower short-term interest rates to help stave off further weakness, traders said.
Since the start of the crisis in the Persian Gulf, the run-up in oil prices has led to rising fears among credit market participants of sharply higher inflation. In large part, those same fears have effectively prevented the Fed from taking any steps to help the economy.
''If oil holds at these levels over the next couple of days, I wouldn't be surprised to see the Fed move on Friday,'' another trader said.
 
Efforts to Ease Fed Policy
''The temptation for the Fed to ease policy will certainly increase if oil prices stay stable,'' said Raymond W. Stone, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J., firm that provides research and commentary on developments in the credit and foreign exchange markets.
''I would like to see them ease policy over the next few days,'' Mr. Stone added, ''but the situation in the Middle East looks so tenuous that it makes it hard to predict if oil prices will stay down.''
The positive tone in the market provided a useful backdrop for the five-year note auction.
At the sale, the new notes were sold at an average yield of 8.57 percent, up slightly from the 8.54 percent average yield at the last five-year note sale on May 24. It is the highest yield on a five-year note since the auction in May 1989.
Also brightening the outlook for traders is the fact that, with the exception of the weekly bill auctions, there will be no new Treasury securities to bid on until late September.
''The fact that we don't have to face any more new paper for a month is a positive,'' said Robert Chandross, chief economist at Lloyd's Bank.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered late yesterday at a price of 98 1/4, up more than 1 point, or more than $10 for each $1,000 face amount of securities, to yield 8.91 percent. Late Tuesday, the bellwether issue was offered at a price to yield 9.03 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 3/4 percent ten-year notes were offered at 99 5/8, up 22/32, to yield 8.80 percent. The 8 1/2 percent seven-year notes were offered at 98 29/32, up one-half point, to yield 8.71 percent. And the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes auctioned Tuesday were offered on a when-issued basis at 100, to yield 8 1/8 percent.
 
Short-Term Bill Rates
Short-term Treasury bill rates eased slightly.
By late in the day, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.45 percent, down 2 basis points, or hundredths of a point. Meanwhile, six-month bill rates fell by 5 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.42 percent.
The positive tone in the market for Treasury securities was also evident in the secondary markets for investment-grade corporate and tax-exempt municipal securities.
Municipal bond traders said that prices of most widely quoted issues rose by about three-fourths of a point.
Participants in the corporate bond market said that prices of most issues rose by anywhere from one-half point to a full point, in line with the increase in the price of Treasury issues.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year Treasury notes:

GRAPHIC: Charts: 5-Year Treasury Notes (source: Treasury Department); Freddie Mac Yields (source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); INFLATION (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



898 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metals End Slide; Grain and Soybeans Drop

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Precious metal futures halted their plunge on the Commodity Exchange in New York yesterday, largely disregarding a sharp drop in energy futures prices.
Gold was 10 cents lower to 30 cents higher, with the August contract up 30 cents, to $385.30 an ounce. Silver was 1.6 cents to 1.8 cents lower, with August at $4.826 an ounce. 
Trading volume fell from Tuesday's level because of increased margins on gold and silver contracts demanded by the exchange. The move makes trading more expensive and dampened market enthusiasm, said Don Tierney, an analyst with Stanley Bell & Company in New York.
Mr. Tierney said selling hit the market early in the session as energy prices fell. But moderate buying by speculators and investors in London helped stabilize prices.
After losing more than $30 in recent trading sessions, gold is coming out of its oversold condition, with some new buying beginning to support the market, Mr. Tierney said.
Grain and soybean futures prices were lower on the Chicago Board of Trade, with aggressive commodity fund selling coming late in the session.
The sharp selloff was attributed to the good growing conditions in the Middle West and the perception that crop yields will be larger than predicted by the Agriculture Department, said William Biedermann, an analyst with Allendale Inc. in Chicago.
''There is also the perception that the Soviet Union will not enter the U.S. market for grains and soybeans until October,'' Mr. Biedermann said.
Also contributing to the fall in prices was the lessening of inflationary pressures, as indicated by a drop in energy futures prices.
Livestock futures were lower and pork futures mostly higher on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Cattle prices were under pressure from light retail demand for beef and expectations of a decline in cash prices.
Pork futures were higher on speculation that demand for pork products will increase.
Live cattle were 0.13 cent to 0.58 cent lower, with October at 76.07 cents a pound; feeder cattle were 0.20 cent lower to 0.20 cent higher, with August at 88.77 cents a pound; hogs were 0.02 cent to 0.37 cent higher, with October at 48.82 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were 0.22 cent to 0.35 cent higher, with February at 52.60 cents a pound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (92%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; GRAIN; SOYBEANS; METALS AND MINERALS FUTURES (95%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); PORK (89%); MEATS (87%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (86%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BEEF (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AGRICULTURE (72%); FROZEN FOODS (63%); 

PERSON: DON TIERNEY (87%); WILLIAM BIEDERMANN (68%); 



899 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mostly Higher in U.S. After Ending Mixed Abroad

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar moved mostly higher in United States trading yesterday after a mixed performance overseas as currency dealers began adjusting their holdings ahead of the long holiday weekend in the United States.
Domestic currency dealers said the dollar's advance came as a byproduct of trading in German marks and Japanese yen, which captured most of the attention.
Dealers sold marks and bought yen. The buying interest in the Japanese currency coincided with an OPEC agreement to increase oil output to compensate for lost exports from Iraq and Kuwait. 
At a meeting this week in Vienna, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided on the action in response to the international embargo on Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil.
Earlier this month, dealers had dumped yen amid speculation that Japan's economy, heavily dependent on oil imports, would suffer because of a disruption in oil supplies from the Middle East.
 
Markets Still Nervous
A nervous tone continued in foreign exchange markets as traders awaited developments in the Persian Gulf.
Michael Schaufler, a currency trader at the Bank of Boston's New York office, said foreign exchange markets were preparing for the three-day Labor Day weekend in the United States. Efforts are being made to balance currency holdings in case any market-moving developments occur while United States trading is closed.
European foreign exchange dealers similarly reported that with prospects uncertain for a diplomatic solution to the Persian Gulf crisis, trading focused more on consolidating accounts before the end of the month.
The dollar rose to 1.55925 marks, up from 1.5560, in New York trading yesterday. And it rose against most other major currencies except for the yen and the British pound.
The dollar closed in New York at 143.55 yen, down from 143.75 on Tuesday. Earlier in Tokyo, it closed at 144.35 yen, up 1.15 yen from Tuesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 143.65 yen.
The British pound was quoted at $1.9475 late in London, up from $1.9470 on Tuesday. In New York the pound rose to $1.94575 from $1.9429 on Tuesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Tuesday's late quotes, were: 1.28875 Swiss francs, up from 1.2860; 5.2300 French francs, up from 5.2175; 1,155.00 Italian lire, up from 1,149.25, and 1.13865 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1416.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (97%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); US LABOR DAY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (71%); 



900 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Healthiest S.& L.'s Show Sharp Decline In Latest U.S. Data

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Providing troubling evidence that the savings and loan deterioration is worsening, the Government reported today that even the healthiest segment of the industry has sharply declined in the last three months.
Losses mounted and loan problems increased at more than 7 percent of the strongest savings institutions.
''The numbers do not bode well for the thrift industry,'' said James Barth, a finance professor at Auburn University who has been studying the savings and loan debacle.
Analysts and lawmakers have assumed that the future of the industry would be dependent upon how the healthiest savings associations weather the current crisis. They expressed concern today about the latest figures, saying the data raised questions about whether the industry would be able to survive or would need to be absorbed by the commercial banking industry to reduce the enormous burden that the savings and loan bailout has placed on the Federal budget. 
In May, the Office of Thrift Supervision issued a report in which it divided all the savings institutions not taken over by the Government into four groups, based on their financial standing that month. Group One consisted of the well-capitalized and profitable institutions, and Group Two comprised those expected to meet the requirements on capital, which provides the institution's cushion against losses. Group Three included those troubled with poor earnings and low capital, and Group Four was made up of those associations expected to be seized by regulators.
Today, the thrift office updated that data into August. And out of the 2,453 savings associations in the industry that have not been taken over by the Government, the thrift office removed 106 institutions from Group One and added 17. That left a net loss of 89 from the top rank and a final Group One total of 1,175.
At the same time, the return on equity of the top group dropped from 10 percent to 9.6 percent, a move that some analysts said would further discourage investments in savings institutions. All told, 205 institutions out of the total were either demoted to a lower category or seized by the Government over the period, while 101 institutions earned a higher rating.
Officials at the Office of Thrift Supervision said that the reduction in Group One institutions was caused by the inability of the savings associations to meet capital requirements and by their mounting losses. They said some had also had their ratings lowered after more of their assets were identified as being in trouble, which required them to post additional reserves on their financial statements.
''Given the slowdown in the economy and the real estate market in many sections of the country, we are not surprised by the slippage in the healthiest group,'' said T. Timothy Ryan Jr., director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.
 
No Expectation of Improvement
He warned that there was no sign that the industry would be much better in the near term. ''If current economic conditions continue or get worse, it's very possible we will see additional deterioration when we report on the groups again in three months,'' he said.
Mr. Ryan said it was too soon to reach any conclusions about the future of the industry but added that trends should begin to emerge by earlier next year.
''What we have said about the healthiest thrifts is that we believe they are in good shape and by and large they should be survivors,'' he said. ''But we are not in control over the world. These thrifts will move in and out of groups based on macroeconomic factors.''
 
Need for Change Cited
Professor Barth of Auburn, who is working on a Congressional study of the Federal deposit insurance system, said that the numbers ''underscore the need for Federal deposit reform and raise again the question of who do we want to give access to Federal deposit insurance and what do we want them to be doing with federally insured deposits.''
In the wake of the savings bailout - which by the most conservative of estimates is expected to cost taxpayers more than $130 billion - both Congress and the Bush Administration have been considering ways to change Federal deposit insurance. A series of Congressional hearings on the issue will be held in the coming weeks, and a report by the Treasury Department is expected to be completed by the end of the year.
''The weaker the savings and loan industry, the more likely are the prospects for homogenization and accleration of bank and thrift mergers,'' said Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, who serves on the House Banking Committee. ''Consolidation will be a hallmark of the 90's.''
 
Accounting Changes Noted
Mr. Leach said the numbers in today's report by the thrift office might not necessarily illustrate an industry in decline but could to some extent reflect accounting changes that have been imposed upon the savings institutions.
''My sense is that it does not reflect a deteriorating circumstance as much as a greater honesty in accounting,'' he said. ''The figures are being looked at much more realistically. One has to remember that behind some of the scandals have been poor accounting practices. Those practices have changed.''
Officials in the savings industry questioned the accuracy of the Government's figures, although they acknowledged that soft real estate markets had continued to take a toll on even the healthiest savings associations.
 
Data Are Questioned
''If there is going to be a debate on the continuation of thrift chartering, we would hope that it would be on the most accurate data obtained,'' said James H. Grohl, senior vice president of the United States League of Savings Institutions, the industry's largest trade association. ''We have serious questions about today's data and are not confident that the shifts are accurate.''
He said that he believed that there were fewer problem institutions than the Government report indicated and added that his organization would be examining the Government's data over the next few weeks.
A lot of institutions, even the healthiest ones, he said, are adjusting to the sour real estate market and to the new rules of the bailout legislation that tightened capital standards. ''If we are headed into a recession, or indeed are in one, then we are no safer than commercial banks or other segments of the economy,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: Chart of savings and loans not under Government control (source: Office of Thrift Supervision) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (57%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES SAVINGS & LOANS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN TIM RYAN (55%); 



901 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Complaints About Census Mount As Many Areas See Low Counts

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
The complaints of New York City about undercounting in the 1990 census figures grew to a chorus today as officials from cities and states across the country argued that they, too, were underrepresented in the preliminary data.
The loudest cries came from the areas whose populations sank furthest below expectations, like Philadelphia, which lost 8.6 percent from its 1980 figure; New York, which lost 0.5 percent, and small Southern cities like Meridian, Miss., which lost 13 percent.
Of those who claim an undercount, some, like Joseph Chow, a Houston planning official, were able to offer specific evidence. Other officials, like those in Philadelphia, said they were sure the numbers were low but had not yet determined what houses or apartment buildings had been left off the maps of the areas covered by the Census Bureau's count thus far.
 
The Highest Count Possible
Because the final census figures will be used by the Government to determine everything from Congressional representation to Federal benefits, state and local officials want the census to reflect the highest count possible. And this year, officials have been given more opportunity than ever before to review census findings before the data are made final. 
While the angry responses could be heard most clearly, there was another, less audible reaction of contentment in cities like Colorado Springs, where census tallies confirmed local perceptions of the growth and economic good times experienced in the 1980's.
''If there's anything that's a trend it's that there's this kind of diversity in the way people are perceiving the success of the census,'' said Alice Watland, an official of the National Association of Regional Councils, which represents thousands of local governments around the country. ''Just when I think I can go to the Census Bureau and say, 'This is the way it is playing across the country,' I'll call three or four people and get three or four more different opinions.''
Kevin Vandenbroek, press secretary for Gov. Ray Mabus of Mississippi, said state officials would meet today and Friday to examine their legal options for challenging census figures, which showed the state with a gain of just over one-half of 1 percent.
In most jurisdictions around the country, however, the emphasis is not on arguing about the figures, but on changing them. In many cases local governments do not have the computer capability to run cross-checks of census housing data and their own data on utility hookups or tax rolls.
Miss Watland said about 14 percent of the nation's 39,000 state and local governments were actively participating in the post-census local review.
And, while a few local officials expressed skepticism about the possibility that there was a political motivation behind some of the unexpectedly low numbers, far more were concerned that flaws might be caused by imperfect maps and haphazard field work.
''The thing that disturbed us worst was that we ended losing population in the county as a whole,'' said Mayor James Kemp of Meridian, Miss. ''We just don't believe that. We can believe that population in the city decreased. People are moving out of the city to the outer county, but they're still there.''
Meridian is the seat of Lauderdale County, which had a population of 77,285 in 1980. The preliminary count in the 1990 census put the county's population at nearly 74,000.
 
Disappointment in Philadelphia
David Baldinger, deputy director of the Philadelphia Planning Commission, said city officials were ''really disappointed'' with the preliminary figures, which showed a population decline as great as 135,000. But he said the Census Bureau initially sent Philadelphia the wrong computer tapes, so his department has had no chance to see where the problems are.
Mayor Maynard Jackson of Atlanta, whose preliminary count was down 9.6 percent from 1980, was more blunt. ''Way out of line,'' he said. In Los Angeles, which gained at least 450,000 people, city officials were nonetheless skeptical of the figures.
''Superficially, the count looks to be pretty much on the money,'' said Gregory Lipton, a technical expert with the city government. ''But the estimates were built on the 1980 census, and we know that was under by 4.7 percent. We know right away in this one that we're under by 4.7 percent, assuming nothing has changed. And we have more immigrants and more undocumented immigrants. We're very concerned about the count in minority neighborhoods.''
Among the cities that found problems with the census count are these:
* In Houston, Mr. Chow, assistant director of the city's Departmnet of Planning and Development, said an initial review of housing data and census maps showed that about 20,000 Houston housing units had been allocated to a neighboring county. The people in those developments were found but were counted as part of another jurisdiction.
* In upstate Michigan a demographer working with Kimball Brace of Election Data Services, a Washington consulting firm, found that in areas where the count fell well below expectations a high percentage of housing units were listed as having only one resident. In some census districts elsewhere there were reports of frustrated census counters listing a single person in a home when they were unable to make contact with the household.
* In several areas of central and South Chicago, which as a whole posted a 9.3 percent decline in the preliminary census figures, from 14 to 17 percent of all population data was taken by ''last resort'' means - asking someone outside the household, like a mail carrier or a neighbor, for information about the residents, said Bill Hunt of the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress. More than 10 percent of all housing units were enumerated by ''last resort'' methods elsewhere in the country, he said, including at least two local census offices in the Bronx, two in Manhattan, one in Los Angeles, one in Washington and one in Philadelphia.
 
The Least Reliable Data
''Last resort'' data, Census Bureau officials agree, are the least likely to be reliable. In a report prepared earlier this month, Mr. Hunt said data from 3.5 percent of all housing units were derived by these procedures.
The number of vacancies showing up in census data has some local officials suspicious. ''A few communities we have talked to, like Wilmette, think the vacancy rate is too high,'' said Max Dieber, who works as a consultant to communities in the Chicago area asessing the accuracy of census data.
But he added: ''What we were telling communities is that they're going to see these numbers, but don't sweat it. The number is preliminary and unfinished. Their task is to make sure all their housing units are counted.''
Houston, Detroit, Los Angeles and Chicago joined New York City several years ago in an ongoing lawsuit against the Commerce Department seeking to force a fundamental change in census methodology that would require the bureau to adjust the final count to correct for the undercounting in areas with hard-to-count populations of minorities and the poor. Officials from those cities have indicated that the initial counts will do nothing to dissuade them from pursuing that legal effort.
But while the losers - and even apparent winners like Los Angeles - believe the count was seriously flawed in their areas, the reaction in many parts of the country was closer to simple boosterism and civic pride at the way their communities were growing.
In Northern California, for example, newspapers tended to focus on the way the city of San Jose south of San Francisco Bay had vaulted ahead of San Francisco in it population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (72%); 

CITY: MERIDIAN, MS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (53%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; PHILADELPHIA (PA); HOUSTON (TEX); MICHIGAN; CHICAGO (ILL); MERIDIAN (MISS)

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (97%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY



902 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
BUSH URGES ALLIES TO BEAR 'THEIR FAIR SHARE' OF COSTS OF MILITARY EFFORT IN GULF

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Asserting that the ''shape of the post-cold-war world'' was at issue in the Persian Gulf crisis, President Bush said today that he was asking other countries to help pay the multibillion-dollar cost of military operations and economic sanctions in the region.
As the emergency entered its fifth week and Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar of the United Nations arrived in Jordan for a mediation effort, Mr. Bush again said he was pessimistic about the search for a diplomatic solution. Mr. Perez de Cuellar, who is to meet on Friday with Iraq's Foreign Minister, Tariq Aziz, described the situation in the Middle East as explosive.
 
Hostage Release Delayed
In Iraq and Kuwait, American and other Western women and children, whom President Saddam Hussein had promised on Tuesday to release at once, encountered further delays. But late tonight, the Foreign Office in London said Iraq was arranging to fly some British women and children directly to London, and Virgin Atlantic Airways said it had been given permission to fly to Baghdad to pick up others. 
Soviet officials, after three weeks of quietly tolerating the buildup of United States military forces in the Persian Gulf, sharply challenged the American presence and questioned whether it might be intended as a permanent foothold in the region. [Page A13.] At a news conference before returning to his vacation home at Kennebunkport, Me., Mr. Bush said, ''The United States has large interests in the balance and has undertaken commitments commensurate with them, and we're more than willing to bear our fair share of the burden.'' He added, ''But we also expect others to bear their fair share.'' [Excerpts, page A11.] Brady and Baker to 'Twist Arms'
American delegations led by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d are to be sent soon to West Germany, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Japan, South Korea and the Kuwaiti exile Government to ''twist their arms a bit,'' a ranking official said, for contributions of as much as $25 billion.
The money would defray some of the costs of American troop deployment and naval patrols and help Middle Eastern nations that are suffering hardships because of the United Nations trade embargo against Iraq.
Turkey, Egypt and Jordan are the principal nations that will benefit from the aid program, American officials said. The plan to solicit contributions was put together rapidly, under strong Congressional pressure to set up some form of burden-sharing, and it remains somewhat nebulous.
At a dinner at the White House on Wednesday night for a group of 11 senators and representatives, all old friends of the President, several pressed him to adopt a more aggressive policy, including the removal of President Hussein as the leader of Iraq, several guests said.
Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said there was ''a clear appreciation that further goals have to be established.'' Senator William V. Roth, Republican of Delaware, commented: ''There were some who spoke quite strongly that we ought to go beyond the goals we have set, that the aggressor ought to be removed.'' Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, who attended the dinner, has recently expressed that view in public and in private.
But Mr. Bush said today that he had ''stopped short of adding'' the removal of the Iraqi leader to the list of aims of the United States.
 
New Conditions for Release
The roughly 1,000 American women and children in Iraq and Kuwait have been told that they must submit letters requesting permission to leave, accompanied by Arabic translations and bearing official stamps attesting that all local taxes have been paid, according to Margaret D. Tutwiler, the State Department spokeswoman.
''Once again, Iraqi promises have been followed by new restrictions on foreigners and burdensome procedures,'' Miss Tutwiler said. ''This emotional roller coaster is inhumane and disgraceful.''
The Foreign Office in London said that even as Mr. Hussein was talking about letting people go, he was detaining others. A spokesman said Iraqi troops took 32 Britons from their homes in Kuwait on Wednesday, grouped them with seven others and transported all 39 to Baghdad under armed guard.
At his news conference, Mr. Bush said he was worried about the hostages but declined to say that their vulnerability would deter him from launching any attack on Iraq.
''We cannot permit hostage taking to shape the foreign policy of this country,'' he declared. ''I will not change the policy of the United States to pay homage or to give credibility to this brutal move of staking out citizens and a brutal move of holding people against their will.''
 
Perez de Cuellar Meeting Delayed
Mr. Perez de Cuellar had been expected to begin his meeting with Mr. Aziz this evening, but the session was postponed until Friday morning. He said he thought the Iraqi Government was ''as eager as we all are to find a just and lasting solution of the problem.''
But he also emphasized that he had no choice but to push Baghdad to accept Security Council resolutions demanding Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait and release of all hostages.
''These are not my resolutions,'' the United Nations leader said. ''They are Security Council resolutions. I cannot make any concessions on these. I am not a merchant to negotiate.''
In Cairo, officials of 13 countries of the Arab League gathered for an emergency meeting that is given little chance of finding a solution. The deep divisions within the group, which split when 12 countries voted on Aug. 10 to send troops to help defend Saudi Arabia, were reflected by the absence of eight member countries.
As the diplomatic activity continued, so did the military buildup. A unit normally based at Torrejon in Spain, the 401st Tactical Fighter Wing, which flies F-16's, arrived in Qatar on the Persian Gulf. Army aviation units flying Apache, Blackhawk, Huey, Chinook and Kiowa helicopters were dispatched from West Germany to the gulf region.
The Pentagon reported that it had intercepted about 250 ships since the naval blockade of Iraq begun. Most of those were simple radio contacts, but about 10 ships have been boarded, none of them flying the Iraqi or the Kuwaiti flag.
Pete Williams, the Pentagon spokesman, said that in the last 48 hours, three ships - Sri Lankan, Panamanian and Liberian - had been searched in the Gulf of Aqaba and then allowed to proceed.
A fourth ship, a Sri Lankan freighter called the Kota Wirama, was searched and prevented from proceeding toward Jordan. Lloyd's List International, the shipping newspaper, said the vessel had been suspected of carry chemicals bound for Iraq.
 
Commerce at 'a Trickle'
At his news conference, President Bush said that Iraqi commerce through Jordan, which has been described as quite bustling in reports from the scene, ''has come down to a bit of a trickle.''
In a speech at the National Press Club this morning, the Jordanian Ambassador, Hussein Hammami, said that no ship with goods bound for Iraq had entered Aqaba harbor since Aug. 19, but that Jordan would continue to allow food and other basic commodities into Iraq until it was told not to do so by the United Nations.
Mr. Bush refused to comment directly on reports that the United States is aiding the Kuwaiti underground with weapons, equipment, intelligence and training, but he added: ''I support the Kuwaiti underground. I support anybody that can have a hand in restoring legitimacy there in Kuwait.''
 
De Facto Aid Reaches Guerrillas
Intelligence officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said Mr. Bush had been asked to sign a document authorizing formal cooperation but had so far declined to do so. Nonetheless, they said, numerous kinds of de facto aid is reaching guerrilla forces.
In discussing his plan to raise money to help Middle Eastern and other countries and to help defray American operational expenses, the President said he did not want American soldiers to appear to be mercenaries.
He said that he would send Mr. Baker and Mr. Brady, two of his closest Cabinet colleagues, to talk to the countries from which he hopes to raise most of the money. Mr. Brady is expected to leave next week for London, Paris, Tokyo and Seoul; Mr. Baker will travel to the Middle East, to Moscow and then to Europe.
 
'A Real Selling Campaign'
Although Mr. Bush denied that he was dissatisfied with what anyone had contributed to the multinational effort so far, the fact that he felt obliged to send emissaries indicated otherwise. Senior officials made no secret of the fact that they had what one called ''a real selling campaign'' ahead of them. They said, for example, that Japan's promised $1 billion was not enough.
Asked about the chances of war, Mr. Bush said: ''It's so hard to answer that question, ''because of the unpredictable nature of Saddam Hussein himself.'' The American buildup in the region, he said, ''would be a deterrent to anybody with any degree of rationhality. Having said that, I don't know what is on this man's mind.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Javier Perez de Cuellar, left, the Secretary General of the United Nations, with Foreign Minister Marwan Kassem of Jordan after arriving yesterday in Amman for talks on the Persian Gulf crisis. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); The family of an Iraqi diplomat at Kennedy International Airport yesterday as the envoys and their families compiled with the Bush Administration's order for the Iraqi Embassy in Washington to reduce its staff. (Associated Press) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JORDAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (94%); KUWAIT (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (69%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; UNITED STATES ; PERSIAN GULF; JORDAN; GREAT BRITAIN ; WEST GERMANY; SAUDI ARABIA; UNITED ARAB EMIRATES; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HOSTAGES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FINANCES ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WOMEN (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); FUNDRAISING (67%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; PEREZ DE CUELLAR, JAVIER (SEC GEN); BRADY, NICHOLAS (SEC); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); JOHN DINGELL (57%); 



903 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2399 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
Excerpts From President's News Conference on Gulf Crisis

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's news conference in Washington today, as provided by the Federal News Service, a transcription company:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
The United States is engaged in a collective effort involving the overwhelming majority of the member states of the United Nations to reverse the consequences of Iraqi aggression. And our goals, enshrined in five Security Council resolutions, are clear: the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait, the restoration of Kuwait's legitimate government, the stability of Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf, and the protection of American citizens.
What is at stake here is truly significant -the dependability of America's commitments to its friends and allies, the shape of the post-postwar world, opposition to aggression, the potential domination of the energy resources that are crucial to the entire world. This effort has been truly international from the very outset. Many other countries are contributing. 
At last count, 22 countries have either responded to a request from Saudi Arabia to help deter further aggression, or are contributing maritime forces pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 665. And still others are providing other forms of financial and material support to these defense efforts or to countries whose economies are affected adversely by sanctions or by higher oil prices. And still others are paying a heavy economic price at home for complying with the United Nations sanctions.
It is important that the considerable burden of the effort be shared by those being defended and those who benefit from the free flow of oil. Indeed, anyone with a stake in international order has an interest in insuring that all of us succeed.
The United States has large interests in the balance and has undertaken commitments commensurate with them, and we're more than willing to bear our fair share of the burden. This includes above all the thousands of men and women in our armed forces who are now in the gulf, but we also expect others to bear their fair share.
A number of countries already have announced their willingness to help those adversely affected economically by this endeavor. And it's essential, though, that this be a concerted and coordinated one and that all affected countries participate. It is important to get the priorities right and make sure that those most deserving of assistance receive it and that those most able to contribute do so. . . . Our approach calls for substantial economic assistance to those states - in particular, I'd single out Turkey and Egypt, who are bearing a great part of the burden of sanctions and higher oil prices. The plan also targets additional countries, including Jordan, the countries of Eastern Europe and others for special assistance. The United States will also seek burden sharing for part of our own effort.
At the same time, we will be asking other governments, including Japan, the Republic of Korea, the Federal Republic of Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Free Kuwait and others to join us in making available financial and, where appropriate, energy resources to countries that have been most affected by the current situation.
To facilitate this undertaking, I've asked Secretary of State Jim Baker and the Secretary of the Treasury Nick Brady to lead high-level delegations to the Persian Gulf, Europe and Asia. . . .
Let me close by repeating what I said the other day in meeting with the congressional leaders. The basic pieces of our policy are in place. The Iraqi regime stands in opposition to the entire world and to the interests of the Iraqi people. It is truly Iraq against the world. But I want to make this point clear, we have no argument with the people of Iraq.
Another area where there has been unprecedented international solidarity is OPEC's willingness to take up the slack in oil production created by the embargo on Iraqi and Kuwait's oil. In this connection, I met this morning with our energy advisers who are watching the oil production situation very, very closely. And we are pleased with OPEC's decision to help take up the slack in crude oil production. And although we are in what I would see as a transition period, the situation appears manageable.
At the present time, we don't anticipate major imbalances in the oil market. But we do have the Strategic Petroleum Reserve tested and available if it is truly needed. And our energy policy is resulting in increased oil production and fuel switching to natural gas and to other fuels. I also repeat my previous request for Americans to conserve and for all parties to act responsibly. Right now, the situation, I would say, is relative stable, and I am very pleased by the coordination that has taken place with so many countries in maintaining adequate fuel levels.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Hostages and Impasse
Q. Mr. President, Saddam Hussein has rejected demands that he pull his troops out of Kuwait, and he's holding several thousand foreigners hostage to keep the world at bay. You say you don't see much chance for diplomacy to work. How long can the West allow this impasse to go on, and would you take any action that might endanger the lives of those hostages?
A. It will go on as long as it takes to have these United Nations sanctions fully implemented, and I am glad that these diplomatic efforts are taking place. Perhaps one will hit pay dirt. But as of now, I must say, I'm not optimistic, because the man keeps reiterating terms that are simply - fly in the face of the United Nations action.
And on the second question, look, I feel very concerned about Americans that are held against their will, but we cannot permit hostage-taking to shape the foreign policy of this country, and I won't permit it to do that.
 
Priorities of U.S.
Q. Mr. President, there are reports that there's a split in your Administration; some who want to expand the goals to include the ouster - eventual ouster of Saddam, and also there are many, many suggestions for a Middle East conference that would include what you would call the post-postwar shape of the world, the perennial problems of the Middle East. What do you think on both of those?
A. What I think on the second part of the question that we ought to get on with the business at hand, the shorter-run business, which is the solution to this question, or the making right the situation in Kuwait; meaning the pulling out of forces obviously, and the restoration of the rulers.
I do - as I look at the countries that are chipping in here now, I think we do have a chance at a new world order. And I'd like to think that out of this dreary performance by Saddam Hussein there could be now an opportunity for peace all through the Middle East. But we have to be sure that what's been undertaken so far is successful before we can - we can move to that other agenda, it seems to me.
Q. Well would you support, then, a conference afterward? I mean, this may be premature, but the question is, are you shooting for that?
A. I haven't - that's not an objective - a conference. Peace through the Middle East is an objective. And as you know, we have never ruled out a conference of any nature. In fact, it was part of an active part of our diplomacy just several years ago. But I don't want to get out ahead of the - where we are right now on this. The question right now is what do we do to get Saddam Hussein to comply with international law. . . .
Q. . . . Do you want to get him out of his job? . . .
A. Well it wouldn't disappoint me if the Iraqis got up and said, Look, this man is our problem. I've said right here the problem is not with the people in Iraq And - but I - I've spelled out our objectives here, and I - I would - I stopped short of adding to them what - you know, the answer that you were seeking from me on the President.
 
Israel and Jordan
Q. Mr. President, some have expressed the fear that Saddam Hussein might seek to inflame the Arab world against the United States by drawing Israel into the conflict here, perhaps by a strike against Jordan. Can you tell us if you're prepared for such a contingency, and if so, how?
A. . . . I can't predict what he's going to do. . . .
Q. Well let me just follow up by asking a question about Jordan's participation in the U.N. sanctions. There are numerous reports coming out of the East - some quoting Israeli intelligence - to the effect that Jordan is a highway, really, for supplies still reaching Iraq. Are you aware of those reports? And what --
A. I'm aware of some. But, it is my view that based on what I've seen most recently, that commerce has come down to a bit of a trickle there. There were reports of enormous numbers of trucks being - being laid up - no goods to transport. So I don't know how effective it is right now. I do know that King Hussein told me, looking me right in the eye, that they were going to comply with the sanctions. But I've seen reports that indicate there's some leakage there. But I just can't give you the quantity. . . . It's my feeling that commerce through the Aqaba, the port of Aqaba, and indeed through Jordan going to Iraq and vice versa has slowed down. Regrettably, there's a lot of refugee traffic. And I think that's hurting the Saddam Hussein image, because people see the humblest being brutalized the most. . . .
 
Fishing and Golfing
Q. Sir, you're going to return to Kennebunkport this afternoon. May I ask how bothered you may have been by the opinion of many Americans . . . who are bothered by you going out and fishing and golfing while in command of the troops in the gulf?
A. No, I'm not bothered by it. I've expressed myself on that. If I were bothered I wouldn't be going back there for the Labor Day weekend with my family. And I think the American people are supporting strongly what I'm doing.
 
Help From Allies
Q. Mr. President, on the question of burden sharing, since you're sending your envoys out, it sounds like you have not gotten the voluntary contributions you might have liked to have gotten. Can you give us a sense of how much you're looking for, and where you expect to find it?
A. No, I don't think it's a question of doing this because we haven't gotten what we think is fair for other countries and for the - and for burden sharing generally. What we're talking about here . . . is a consulting and coordinating effort, and we've had strong indications of support. But now we are moving up a little bit and trying to take . . . leadership, in helping sort out who should help whom. And somebody has to do that, and we've made a significant commitment in various ways, and so it seemed appropriate that we take the lead in working with our friends and allies. . . . Prime Minister Kaifu called me last night . . . and made a significant contribution, and then pledged to do more in terms of support for other countries. Now that is very good, and that was voluntary. But it needs to be coordinated. Somebody needs to take the lead on saying, Look, we don't put all the money to this one country. . . .
Q. If I could follow up, there have been concerns expressed about the Japanese not making any military contribution. They could send minesweepers or something like that. Is money not enough in the Japanese case? And what has happened to your good friend Helmut Kohl, who seemed extraordinarily silent?
A. Well, I don't - I wouldn't say money is not enough. I'm fully aware of the constraints on the Japanese, and I have not pressed him to go beyond what his Constitution provides.
Helmut Kohl - I think they'll be very responsive, and part of what we're talking about here is to follow up on comments like the ones Helmut Kohl made to me about we want to be a part of this, we want to help. So I have no argument with the Germans at all.
 
Kuwaiti Underground
Q. Is the United States doing anything to help the Kuwaiti underground, the Kuwaiti rebels? Training, supplies, anything?
A. . . . I wouldn't comment on it . . . but in a broad way - I support the Kuwaiti underground. I support anybody that can have a hand in restoring legitimacy there to Kuwait
 
Iraqi Opposition
Q. . . . There are some Iraqi opposition groups in London and elsewhere and the Kurds. And they've all said in recent weeks they've heard nothing from your Administration. If anything . . . the United States only wants covert contacts with them. Why not, if as you say, you want the Iraqi people to rise up, why . . . has this administration not done anything with the opposition groups?
A. We've got a plan, and the plan is to work diplomatically, and the plan is to put on the ground a significant military force. And if these comments I made today about anybody who wants to help the United Nations and those of us who want to see Iraq out of Kuwait succeed, so much the better.
 
Effects on Iraq
Q. If I could just follow up, you said also today you don't want to hurt the Iraqi people. But isn't this embargo and these sanctions only hurting them, and hurting them first before they hurt Saddam?
A. There's nothing that's painless, David, when you get into a situation like this, when you have a leader that is - could brutalize his own people.
 
Talking With Iraq
Q. On the question of negotiations, Mr. President, are all channels still open? Specifically, have there been any back channel contacts or proposals from White House officials that are worth pursuing?
A. None that I know of.
Q. If I could follow on that, sir. Saddam Hussein has suggested that you and he and Margaret Thatcher go on TV to debate this. What do you say to that?
A. I say you can put an empty chair there as far as I'm concerned.
 
Reduction in Troops
Q. A suggestion has been made that some reduction in the troops might be made in the days ahead to give a more international tinge to the force over there. Would you support such a move?
A. I'm more interested in seeing the fulfillment of commitments made.
 
Hussein and TV
Q. Mr. President, do you have any problem with the live TV coverage of Saddam Hussein media events, which a lot of people complain that this gives him a propaganda platform?
A. No, I have no complaints about it. I think that it hasn't helped him very much with world opinion. . . .

GRAPHIC: President Bush joking that the tie and handkerchief worn by Marlin Fitzwater, left, his press secretary, matched those worn by the Iraqi spokesman. Also at the news conference were Brent Scowcroft, national security adviser, Richard Haass, an N.S.C. staff member, Robert Gates, the N.S.C. deputy director, and a Secret Service agent. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 



904 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
In Tallying Its Gulf Costs, U.S. Counts Impatience

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
In drawing up the burden-sharing plan announced today by President Bush to help sustain United States forces in the Persian Gulf, the Administration was mindful that the American people and Congress might become impatient with a drawn-out crisis, State Department officials said.
The officials said that political pressure is likely to grow as the American public starts taking notice of the expanding costs of the operation, especially when many economists say a recession is imminent. The plan is intended to bolster the argument that the sacrifices required to stop Iraqi aggression are truly international.
The Pentagon said this week that American operations in the Persian Gulf will have cost $2.5 billion beyond normal military operating expenditures by Sept. 30. 
The political ramifications have been driven home in recent days by members of Congress, who have argued that Japan and other allies should contribute more to the enforcement of the United Nations trade sanctions against Iraq.
 
Concern for Mideast Allies
The officials said another element of the plan, aid to nations suffering economic hardships, was motivated by the Administration's belief that Turkey, Egypt and Jordan, need financial assistance to make up for the more than $3 billion in annual trade they will lose collectively as sanctions against Iraq take hold.
The State Department officials said that as the crisis deepens, the Administration hopes to assure the political stability of these nations, which are among those most affected by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. All three countries face a rise in unemployment and a wave of business failures linked to Iraqi commerce.
Drafts of policy papers prepared by the State and Treasury Departments over the last week have differed in their breakdowns of the needs of the poorer Middle East countries and of the contributions that should be sought from the Administration's wealthier allies.
But officials said the Administration hopes eventually to gain commitments of $2 billion a month or more, including military and economic aid, with the largest amounts coming from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait's exiled Government.
 
Measuring Jordan's Compliance
The officials suggested that the amount of aid allotted to Jordan would depend on how it fulfills its pledge to observe the embargo against Iraqi trade. President Bush said King Hussein of Jordan had promised to support United Nations sanctions. But there have been continued reports of food and other shipments leaving the port of Aqaba or crossing the Jordanian border into Iraq.
The State Department officials said Bangladesh, Morocco, the Philippines, India and some countries in Eastern Europe would also receive assistance. The Administration does not believe that Bangladesh and Morocco should have to pay for sending several thousand troops to Saudi Arabia when wealthier countries are sending no troops at all, they said.
They noted that the Philippines, India and Eastern European nations are expected to lose vital oil supplies and trade as long as they support the embargo against Iraq and occupied Kuwait.
The Administration's primary goal, a State Department official said, ''is to sustain the worldwide support for effective pressure on Iraq. At the same time, we have an important stake in helping countries to respond to the adverse economic affects of the Gulf crisis.''
He added, ''The idea is not to hit up countries for specific sums, but to build on the consensus we have already achieved and insure an appropriate sharing of the burden.''
 
Nations to Be Pressured
The Administration particularly wants long-term commitments of economic aid from West Germany, Japan, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the exiled Government of Kuwait. Officials greeted Japan's announcement that it would commit $1 billion in financing, transportation and medical aid to the effort, but said that much more would be needed from Tokyo in the months to come.
Announcing the program at the White House, President Bush said: ''We are more than ready to bear our fair share of the burden, and we also expect others to bear their fair share.'' He added, ''We're trying to take the lead here in helping sort out who should help who.''
Mr. Bush said he was sending separate delegations led by Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady to Europe, Asia and the gulf to solicit contributions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cost of American operations in the Persian Gulf will exceed normal military expenditures by $2.5 billion by Sept. 30. United States Air Force personnel relaxed yesterday outside tents near C-141 transport planes on a Saudi air base. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); JORDAN (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); GULF STATES (94%); KUWAIT (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); MOROCCO (92%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (65%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); US AIR FORCE (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; UNITED STATES; TURKEY; JORDAN ; EGYPT

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



905 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
THATCHER WARNS EUROPE OVER GULF

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HELSINKI, Finland, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain said today that Europeans were in danger of losing the global military protection of the United States unless they took a broader view of their security interests than they have in the Persian Gulf crisis.
''It is sad that at this critical time Europe has not fully measured up to expectations,'' Mrs. Thatcher told a gathering of European conservative party leaders.
''The only countries in Europe which have done significantly more than the minimum are Britain and France,'' she said, adding, ''It's not what you say that counts but what you do.''
''That was a jab at West Germany,'' said Carl Bildt, leader of Sweden's opposition Moderate Center Party. Mrs. Thatcher's remarks came 12 hours bfore President Bush's call for countries, like West Germany, that have not contributed much directly to the military operations in the gulf, to reimburse the United States for up to $12 billion in costs. 
The NATO allies and the 12-nation European Community have supported United Nations resolutions condemning the invasion and annexation of Kuwait by Iraq, imposing an international trade and military embargo on the Iraqi Government, and authorizing enforcement of the blockade. But NATO itself, formed to defend Europe against aggression by the Soviet Union in the cold war, has not taken any role, and the alliance has left action or inaction to its members.
 
Widely Different Views
Their positions reflects their widely differing notions of who they are and what they can do with military force. Germany, though soon to be united and the most powerful military and economic force on the European continent, has shown itself deeply equivocal about using that strength in any way except to defend its territory.
Britain, which likes to remember when it ruled the waves, has sent four warships and three minesweepers to the gulf, deployed scores of aircraft and sent 2,200 soldiers. France, which likes to show that it can defend its interests all alone, has an aircraft carrier, an elite commando unit, and seven other navy ships in Indian Ocean waters near the gulf.
The United States has sent thousands of troops to Saudi Arabia and neighboring states, several aircraft carrier task groups, and several hundred combat aircraft to the gulf. Other European countries have sent the odd ship or two for logistical support or economic help to Arab nations suffering from the effects of Iraq's aggression, but not as part of a single American or NATO military campaign.
 
Speaks at Conference
With West Germany's Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, taking center stage in NATO councils for the last year as German unity suddenly became a possibility, Mrs. Thatcher had been something of a wallflower until the gulf crisis erupted.
But today at the conference of the European Democrat Union she said: ''There is no place in future for an inward-looking NATO, any more than there is for an inward-looking European Community. We have all this rhetoric about a common security policy as part of the political union, yet when it comes to something practical which affects us fundamentally, some countries are hesitant.
''We cannot expect the United States to go on bearing major military and defense burdens worldwide, acting in effect as the world's policeman, '' she warned, ''if it does not get a positive and swift response from its allies when the crunch comes - particularly when fundamental principles as well as their direct interests are just as much at stake.''
The NATO treaty, signed in 1949, created the alliance to respond to ''an armed attack on the territory of any of the parties in Europe and North America,'' but specified that the collective security guarantee applied only to the North Atlantic area north of the Tropic of Cancer.
 
Calls for Redefining Aims
That, most of America's allies agreed during two Arab-Israeli wars, clearly did not include the Middle East. But now that the threat of Soviet attack is gone, at least for a good while, people like Mrs. Thatcher are arguing that it is time to redefine NATO's aims to include defense against threats to security or economic stability from places like the gulf, where they have arisen repeatedly in the last decade.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''We cannot expect the United States to go on bearing major military and defense burdens worldwide,'' Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain said. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); GERMANY (94%); GULF STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); FRANCE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; WEST GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; PERSIAN GULF; EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-MIDDLE EAST MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); POLITICS (79%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NAVIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN); WHITNEY, CRAIG R GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



906 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Price Tag on Gulf Aid Bears U.S. Imprint

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Aug. 31

 BODY:
A decision by Japan to pledge $1 billion in aid for the military buildup against Iraq came after United States officials expressed unhappiness over the original package announced by Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, American and Japanese officials said today.
The officials said the American unhappiness - and a personal request for more by President Bush to Prime Minister Kaifu on Wednesday - led to wrangling session that night among Japanese bureaucrats and politicians to produce the price tag on Japan's aid program missing in the original announcement.
A major confrontation was also said to have occurred between Mr. Kaifu and his Finance Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, who was reported to have resisted the Prime Minister's desire for a specific dollar figure to satisfy Washington's demands.
After producing the $1 billion figure, Mr. Kaifu called President Bush again on Thursday. That call led Mr. Bush to say in Washington that the United States was satisfied with Japan's efforts. ''We're now evaluating the package more positively than before,'' an American official said. 
 
Military Vehicles Requested
The extraordinary deliberations within Japan provided an unusual glimpse into the way the Japanese political and bureaucratic system functions - extremely sensitive to high-level pressure from Washington, and yet insistent on maintaining Japanese prerogatives.
Officials said today that although Mr. Kaifu had also originally ruled out the shipment by Japan of any military equipment to the Middle East, discussions with the United States were continuing to see if Tokyo could send military vehicles and equipment.
The decisions this week culminated nearly a month of wrestling over Japan's role in the international effort to press Iraq economically and militarily to pull out of Kuwait. In the end, Japan showed itself divided and perplexed about protecting its interests and cooperating with its major ally.
Pressed by many countries and by many Japanese to exercise leadership commensurate with its status as an economic superpower, Tokyo was widely seen today as hampered by bureaucratic rivalries, political infighting and a long-standing ambivalence toward a larger role on the world stage.
 
'Japan Was Really Tested'
Many Japanese themselves are expressing disappointment that Japan moved too late with too little, and doing it too much under foreign pressure.
''This was a time when Japan was really tested to see if it could bear its international responsibility,'' said Moto Shiina, a leading Japanese defense analyst and former member of Parliament. ''I am disappointed that Japan did not show the will and the courage to do something more.''
Like Americans and Europeans, Japanese have been moved and angered by broadcasts of women and children hostages in Baghdad.
But widespread concern focused on two facets of the Japanese aid scheme announced on Wednesday. First was an apparent scaling back on earlier expectations of a large, quick infusion of cash for Middle East countries from Japan's Foreign Ministry.
 
Aid With Strings Attached
Second was the point that after a searching public debate with everyone agreeing that Japan's interests were at stake, Mr. Kaifu concluded that Tokyo could not provide the assistance to the military buildup in the Middle East that Washington had sought.
What Japan did come up with was not inconsiderable, Japanese and American officials agreed.
Mr. Kaifu offered to spend $1 billion to send 100 medical specialists, and food, water and medical supplies aboard chartered ships and planes to the Middle East, and to provide an unspecified sum of economic aid to Turkey, Egypt, Jordan and other countries strangled by the crisis.
But the economic aid to hard-pressed Middle East countries came with strings attached, guaranteeing that the money would not be available for their immediate cash needs.
 
Watered Down by Ministry
Government officials explained that initial promises made by Foreign Minister Taro Nakayama were watered down when turned over for implementation to the Finance Ministry, which like all budgetary agencies is extremely reluctant to spend money.
Clashes and delays caused by bureaucratic infighting have long been a feature of Japan, which traces the existence of a powerful professional bureaucracy back a thousand years.
In Japan's Government system, moreover, the Prime Minister is usually too weak politically to force an issue through the way he wants or reconcile differences among various agencies. Mr. Kaifu is considered an especially weak Prime Minister, lacking a power base of his own.
As for Japan's foreign aid program, it is also controversial because it relies less on health and welfare for individuals than on large construction projects - power plants, harbors and the like -often awarded to Japanese contractors.
In addition, Finance Ministry officials asserted this week that the financial aid would have to be carried out in coordination with other nations and with the International Monetary Fund, making it likely to require austerity measures of the recipients.
 
'Airlift Capacity Is Strong'
The more serious debate in Japan was whether Tokyo could for the first time since World War II use its ships and planes to transport military equipment and personnel.
The United States has made its view clear that such aid would not violate either Japan's Constitution - written by the American occupation after World War II - or laws enacted since then.
In rejecting the American request, Mr. Kaifu said Japan could not do such things without amending the laws governing its armed forces. Many defense experts argue that Japan could have done more and still complied with its legal and Constitutional restrictions.
''We cannot send combat forces. That's true,'' said Mr. Shina, who until his defeat for re-election this year was the dominant Liberal Democratic Party's leading defense analyst. ''But our airlift capacity is strong, and so are combat-ready medical teams who know how to set up field hospitals.''
Aside from the Constitutional issue, a practical barrier to Japanese action emerged this month when owners and unionized workers with the airlines and shipping companies told the Government that they would refuse to carry military personnel or equipment into a combat zone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (78%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-MIDDLE EAST; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



907 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Confrontation in the Gulf;
Soviets Issue Their First Criticism Of American Presence in the Gulf

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 30

 BODY:
After three weeks of quietly tolerating the buildup of United States military forces in the Persian Gulf, Soviet officials sharply challenged the American presence today and questioned whether it might be intended as a permanent foothold in the region.
''There are no guarantees that the United States will leave Saudi Arabia after the crisis is over,'' Deputy Foreign Minister Aleksandr Belonogov told a parliamentary committee today.
Mr. Belonogov, who has been a leading architect of Moscow's collaboration with the West in efforts to roll back Iraq's conquest of Kuwait, said the Soviet Union had never approved of the American deployment of troops in Saudi Arabia, and described the situation in the region as ''becoming more and more explosive.''
In an interview with the official Tass press agency, General of the Army Vladimir N. Lobov, Chief of Staff of the Warsaw Pact alliance, said the American presence had drastically changed the strategic balance in the region and could scuttle disarmament talks in Europe. 
 
Pressure on Moscow
General Lobov, who said he was expressing his personal views, speculated that the United States might plan to extend its forces along the Soviet Union's southern flank, establishing a bridgehead from which to control Middle East oil flows and put pressure on Moscow.
The remarks of two Soviet officials were by far the most critical Soviet reaction in the gulf crisis, which has brought the two superpowers into the closest working relationship since they were allies in World War II.
There are several possible reasons for the Kremlin's choice of this moment to distance itself somewhat from American policy in the region.
One is the mounting impatience of top military officials about the massing American armies in a region 700 miles from the Soviet Union's southern border. The Kremlin may have felt the time was ripe to issue a warning before the Americans got too settled.
Another reason may be to address fears in the public and the Parliament of a widening conflict that could draw in the Soviet Union. #85% Support Anti-Iraq Stand A poll published today in the weekly Moscow News showed that 87 percent of those with a clear opinion support President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's policy of siding with the West and Arab moderates in the campaign to isolate Iraq.
But the Kremlin knows that a public scarred by the war in Afghanistan and obsessed with its domestic economic woes would have little appetite for sending Soviet troops to fight in the Persian Gulf.
Since the first joint Soviet-American statement condemning Iraq on Aug. 3, Moscow has joined Washington to support five United Nations resolutions against the former Soviet ally, including one endorsing use of force to police an economic embargo.
While the Kremlin has repeatedly urged that military measures be delayed until economic and political pressure has had a chance to work, Soviet officials have refrained until now from publicly criticizing the American-led naval buildup and the assembly of land forces in Saudi Arabia.
Today's comments came as the Soviet Parliament's International Affairs Committee met to review the Iraq-Kuwait conflict.
 
'Buildup Cannot Please Us'
Mr. Belonogov, who was quoted by Tass, said, ''The buildup of American military cannot please us, either in the short run, since the situation is becoming more and more explosive, nor in the long run, since there are no guarantees that the United States will leave Saudi Arabia after the crisis is over,''
''The United States, in answer to an inquiry, notified the Soviet Union of its intention to sent troops to Saudi Arabia, but the Soviet Union did not express approval of that step,'' he added.
General Lobov, who spoke to Tass after the parliamentary hearing, offered a ''likely scenario of further developments in the region'' that may have been intended as a case for bolstering the Soviet military budget.
The general hypothesized that with the United States likely to scale back its presence in Europe as a result of conventional arms talks in Vienna and the reunification of Germany, ''the current crisis over Iraq and Kuwait opens new possibilities.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DISARMAMENT (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL ALEKSANDR BELONOGOV (63%); VLADIMIR N LOBOV (60%); 



908 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Romanian Leader Is Seeking Fall Visit With Bush

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Romania, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Prime Minister Petre Roman wants very much to come to Washington this autumn and has let the Bush Administration know of this desire. But so far, the Romanian official has received no positive response.
''I would like to visit the United States,'' he said in an interview in his office here on Wednesday. ''I want to go because I want to be questioned by Congressmen and Senators. I want to be really there to answer every question and every criticism directly in the pure American style.'' 
Mr. Roman, who is 45 years old, is to meet on Friday with Senator Bob Dole, the Republican minority leader, and six of his colleagues. He will be able to answer their questions in English, which he speaks quite well.
But at this point, it is not clear whether the Bush Administration, which has repeatedly and harshly assailed the Romanian Government for most of the last eight months, will officially endorse a visit by Mr. Roman.
''We have certain benchmarks,'' a United States Embassy official said when asked about the possibility of a visit by the Romanian head of government. ''We are watching University Square,'' the scene of violent clashes between anti-Government demonstrators and the police earlier this year. ''We are watching the newspapers and the development of a press law.''
The Romanian Government has been strongly criticized for its conduct during a demonstration in June, when a call for help brought to the capital a flood of miners who beat up students, demonstrators and others.
But American diplomats here acknowledge that the Romanian Government, whose United Nations representative is now chairman of the Security Council, has been extremely supportive of United States initiatives in the Persian Gulf crisis. ''That is a positive development'' in the still sour relationship with Washington, a diplomat said.
Mr. Roman indicated that he intended to go to New York for the annual session of the United Nations General Assembly that starts in September and that ''if I have a clear signal from Washington, I'll go.''
He was frank in acknowledging mistakes by his Government, which was overwhelmingly endorsed by Romanian voters in elections last May that were generally acknowledged as fair.
Referring to clashes in mid-June that left six dead, Mr. Roman said the Government was ''to blame for the fact that we did not succeed in controlling the violence of June 13 and the fact that some miners got out of control the evening of June 14 also.''
He said that the events of June were still the subject of investigation, but that it was evident to him that some former members of the Nicolae Ceausescu's secret police had committed acts of violence at the time. ''Some former Securitate men were involved in provocations to force us to return to their methods,'' he said, using the Romanian name for the deposed dictator's state security force.
Mr. Roman rejected the notion that Romania was, saying, ''I think you have to view our political stability within the framework of the legacy inherited from the Communist regime.''
''It was clear to us that we would have a very difficult economic situation in this transition,'' he continued. ''It may be worse than we expected.'' He said other East European countries ruled by Communist governments until last year had the same problems.
He said his Government had pushed through the necessary legal changes to turn state enterprises into privately owned companies and to encourage small businesses, including a law that every apartment house built after 1948 could be placed on the open market.
That and other laws encouraging privatization ''haven't operated very well,'' he said, because brakes were being applied ''by ancient members of the bureaucracy.''
''We need to accelerate the autonomy,'' he said, although ''even those that want to put things in order, most don't have the means.''
The only real bright spot in the economy, Mr. Roman said, was in agriculture, where a record grain harvest of 11.5 million tons is being brought in -with 3 million tons being kept by farmers for sale on the free market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ROMANIA (99%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROMANIA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ROMANIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROMAN, PETRE (PRIME MIN); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); BINDER, DAVID PETRE ROMAN (96%); 



909 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Loss of Paychecks From Kuwait Makes Families Hostages of Crisis

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Saying the Persian Gulf conflict has eliminated its only source of income, a Texas company has cut off paychecks to the families of six oil workers who are hostages of the Iraqi Government.
The company, OGE Drilling, says paying the men would mean financial ruin. But the families say losing those paychecks means they might lose their homes and medical care.
''Our revenue has been cut. and if we continue to pay these people we will be bankrupt,'' said Bill Schaub, drilling director of OGE. ''Then we would no longer be helpful to anyone.'' 
 
'In His Mind I'm Safe'
That explanation is little comfort to Donnita Cole, of Odessa, Tex., whose husband, John, is trapped in Kuwait. ''My husband thinks I'm fine right now,'' she said. ''In his mind I'm safe and OGE is taking care of me, but in actuality I may be out on the street.''
OGE has 18 employees and one source of income: the Kuwait Oil Company, whose assets were among those frozen by the United States Government after Iraq invaded Kuwait earlier this month. OGE's business is to find employees for Kuwait Oil. It pays their salaries and expenses and is then reimbursed by Kuwait Oil.
Even before the invasion, Mr. Schaub said, Kuwait Oil owed OGE $500,000. The salaries of the six employees being held by Iraq cost the company $30,000 a month, he said. Though he would not reveal the revenue of OGE, or its parent company, OGS Engineering, he said ''those kind of losses are more than we can handle.'' OGS provides workers for other aspects of the oil business.
 
No Steady Job for Years
Patricia Hale of Spring, Tex., says loss of the paycheck is more than she can handle. Before her husband, Edward, left for Kuwait in January, he had not had steady work for several years, because of the decline of the oil drilling business, in which he had worked for 35 years. By the time he left, the couple had sold their home north of Houston, and most of their furniture. Their savings were gone.
In February, Mrs. Hale, who has severe asthma, was hospitalized for a month. Because hers was a pre-existing condition, insurance did not cover the $18,000 bill, which she has been paying in installments. Still recuperating at home, she requires oxygen equipment, which costs nearly $3,000. She was about to apply for a loan to pay for the equipment, she said, when she heard rumors that OGE might stop her husband's paychecks.
''That equipment is my lifeline,'' she said. ''The company that owns it couldn't be nicer, and they said they understand but they can't go forever without being paid. One day they'll want the money or the equipment back.''
 
Search for Ways to Help
Jay P. Simpson, vice president of OGE, said the company was looking at ways, short of paying the full salaries, to help the families of the six employees.
He said his staff was investigating ways to allow the families to keep their insurance benefits, which are due to expire on Saturday. The company has queried the Texas Employment Commission to see if the families could apply for unemployment benefits for the employees in their absence.
Bill Grossenbacher, the commission's Administrator, said the most the families could receive would be $214 a month if they qualified. A recipient of unemployment benefits must be able to actively look for work and since the hostages cannot do so special waivers of state regulations would be required.
Mr. Simpson said OGE was trying to collect the money it was owed by Kuwait Oil and had approached the Treasury Department, asking that some of its assets be freed so its debts could be paid.
Finally, he said, the idea of other OGE and OGS employees' taking pay cuts is being discussed, and a fund is being set up for anyone who wished to donate money to the families.
Still, Mrs. Cole said she was close to the breaking point.
''I'm playing three waiting games now,'' she said. ''I'm waiting to see if my soldier son in Saudi is going to war. I'm waiting to see if my hostage husband comes home from Kuwait. And now I'm waiting about the paycheck. That last one, I didn't need.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia Hale of Spring, Tex., whose husband, Edward, is being held hostage by Iraq. She is dependent on oxygen equipment that she can no longer afford because Mr. Hale's employer, a Texas oil personnel company, has stopped paying his salary and those of five other hostages. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (58%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); KUWAIT OIL CO KSC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OGE DRILLING CO; KUWAIT OIL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; TEXAS; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: HOSTAGES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ASSETS, FROZEN; WAGES AND SALARIES ; FINANCES, PERSONAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WAGES & SALARIES (92%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FAMILY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); ASTHMA (50%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA ; HALE, PATRICIA



910 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo's Share of World Leadership

 BODY:
Faced with Washington's wrath, Japan stopped some of its hemming and hawing yesterday and pledged at least $1 billion for the multilateral effort in the Persian Gulf. But regrettably, Tokyo remains vague about its promises to help beleaguered front-line gulf states.
In any event, the total package disclosed so far doesn't begin to approximate what Japan's contribution should be - given that nation's substantial dependence on gulf oil and its new desire to become an important actor in world affairs. 
Tokyo cannot hope to be a great power unless it acts like one. And as long as Prime Minister Kaifu and other political leaders defer to cautious financial bureaucrats, Japan cannot fulfill its clear obligations to thwart Iraqi aggression.
To be sure, Washington unwisely complicated Mr. Kaifu's problems by urging Japan to make a military contribution to the gulf effort. Specifically, it was a mistake to ask Tokyo to send minesweepers. That would violate the spirit of Japan's anti-militarist Constitution. It would also alarm Japan's Asian neighbors, many still traumatized by Japanese aggression during World War II.
But the United States is right to press Japan to live up to its promises of immediate and large-scale financial aid, with no strings attached, to countries like Turkey and Egypt. Provided Jordan fully respects the United Nations sanctions, it should receive aid as well. These countries face heavy economic burdens from the showdown with Iraq, and they have no realistic hope of coping without substantial outside help.
Japan did much better yesterday, albeit belatedly, in stepping up to its responsibilities in sharing the financial burden for the multilateral force. The $1 billion pledge over the next six months is a good start. Even without major combat, U.S. troop deployments are expected to cost more than $1 billion a month. The Administration hopes that Germany will also make a heavy contribution. Reasonably enough, the largest share is expected to come from the rich Arab gulf states that American forces are there to defend.
As Mr. Bush rightly noted yesterday, ''the shape of the post-cold-war world'' is at stake in the resolution of the gulf crisis. A critical element of security in that new world will be united action. And for there to be unity, different nations will have to contribute according to their strengths.
Mr. Kaifu seems to understand the point well as it applies to his own nation. ''If Japan's response is delayed,'' he said Wednesday night, ''and the world gets the impression that it does nothing for peace in a region where its own national interest is at stake, then its future will be lost.'' So far, Japan is doing more than nothing, but not nearly enough to set an example of how to unite for peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-MIDDLE EAST; FOREIGN AID; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); COLD WAR (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); WORLD WAR II (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); 



911 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: NATO Can Get Back on the Right Track

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is not true that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was ''founded in 1949 to counter the Soviet threat'' (''NATO, Bereft of a Military Role, Redefines Itself as the West's Political Galvanizer,'' news article, Aug. 9). Only after the Korean War did NATO become the United States-led military bloc it is. West Germany was incorporated into the North Atlantic Alliance in April 1955; on May 5 that year the Soviet Union retaliated by forming the Warsaw Pact. 
Louis St. Laurent, Lester Pearson, Escott Reid and NATO's other Canadian architects conceived the Western alliance as an economic, political and cultural confederation of Canada, the United States and Western Europe. In August 1948, Pearson gave the definitive statement of Canada's vision of the Western Alliance:
''A North Atlantic treaty will create a new living international institution which will have within itself possibilities of growth and adaptation to changing conditions. The North Atlantic Community is a real commonwealth of nations which share the same democratic and cultural traditions. If a movement toward its political and economic unification can be started this year, none of us can forecast the extent of the unity which may exist 5, 10 or 15 years from now.''
In the Canadian view, shared by Britain and an influential minority in the State Department of the United States, the treaty's military aspect was only to provide the psychological security for reconstruction of Western Europe. This position is enshrined in Article II of the North Atlantic Charter. Pearson expected the alliance's military aspect to be temporary, until relations between the Western world and the Soviet world had improved. The European peace that proved evasive in 1948-49 is finally in sight.
The end of the cold war, and with it NATO's exclusively military existence, should be welcomed to return NATO to its original principles of economic, political and cultural cooperation.
 
GREGORY FELTON
Vancouver, Canada, Aug. 13, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (56%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (56%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (67%); WESTERN EUROPE (67%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, WEST

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); KOREAN WAR (72%); 

PERSON: FELTON, GREGORY LESTER PEARSON (85%); 



912 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
Lobster Bargain Is No Bargain For Lobstermen

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

DATELINE: STONINGTON, Conn.

 BODY:
Here on the fishing docks in this seaside village near the Rhode Island border, stacks of empty lobster traps bake like driftwood in the noonday sun. ''Must mean people are buying lobster, else they wouldn't be empty,'' said Arthur Medeiros, the captain of the Rosemary R., a 40-foot dragger that combs Fishers Island Sound and Little Narragansett Bay.
Indeed consumers, restaurantgoers mainly, are buying lobster these days; fishing industry statistics say that the nation's annual lobster consumption has remained at 40 million pounds for the last 10 years.
Among New England lobstermen, however, there is rising concern that cheap Canadian imports, higher fuel prices and the fickle tastes of diners could scuttle their business. Already, boat prices (the prices paid to lobstermen) have hit 10-year lows, making lobster almost as cheap as hamburger in some parts of New England. In Maine and Massachusetts, lobstermen have gone on strike this summer in an effort to push up prices. 
''We've been having a hard time for the past year,'' said John Healey, captain of the 27-foot lobster boat Tina Marie. ''People aren't spending money like they used to, so there is no demand. Not even at low prices.''
Even in good years, lobster prices rise and fall like the oil or gold markets. This year, though, boat prices in Stonington dropped to $2.25 a pound in April. Last summer, the average price fluctuated between $3 and $4 a pound. Lobstermen generally cite $2.50 a pound as their break-even point.
In the past few weeks, boat prices have rebounded to a recent high of $3 to $3.50 a pound. The increase, however, is linked mainly to recent bad weather limiting supplies already languishing because of the annual August lull in catches.
''August is always the worst month,'' said Mr. Medeiros, a fisherman here for the last 43 years and the current president of the Southern New England Fishermen and Lobstermen's Association.
Lobstermen sometimes attribute the summer price drop to the price of fuel, which has increased by up to 25 cents a gallon in the past month.
''It doesn't pay to go out anymore,'' Mr. Healey said. They also cite imported lobsters from New Brunswick and Nova Scotia that are selling for less than $3 a pound. More often, they point to the worsening economy for what they perceive to be a drop in demand. Eighty percent of all lobsters are consumed in restaurants.
''We were delivering 150 lobsters a day to some restaurants last year and now they are getting 75 or 80,'' said Bill Paul, manager of DiMaggio's Lobsters, a wholesaler on the town dock.
Because of the decline in wholesale prices, some restaurants in Connecticut have been offering lobster dinners at under $10 this summer; SoNo Seafood in South Norwalk recently was charging $8.95 for one-claw lobsters. Others, though, have been less willing to pass along the price cuts. For example, the cheapest price for a one-pound lobster at the HarborView, a dockside restaurant in Stonington, runs $14.95 at the bar.
''It's a short season, and we have to make as much money as we can off the tourists,'' said the restaurant's head chef, Bill Geary. ''Besides, a lot of our customers are from New York, and this is still cheaper than what they are used to.''
Catching lobsters has also come under criticism from crustacean-rights advocates, who contend that boiling lobsters alive is a cruel method of killing. ''We hear it every day,'' Mr. Paul said. ''People come in here, they want the lobster, but they don't want to cook them. They hear them kicking in the pot.''
''All they got to do is make sure the water is hot enough,'' Mr. Paul said. ''They'll be dead in a second.''
Curiously, the troubled lobster market has not forced lobstermen into other less-volatile ventures. The trade has become almost trendy. On his latest album, the rock singer Billy Joel released a song about bay men, and he is often spotted cruising in a working lobster boat.
Old-timers around Stonington, a former whaling and shipbuilding capital that still houses Connecticut's largest fishing fleet, noted, too, that an increasing number of part-timers have been taking out lobster traps.
''Every year, there are more and more out there,'' Mr. Medeiros said. ''It must be the romance.''
Mr. Healey, however, had a better explanation. ''With the economy the way it is around here,'' he said, ''it is getting so there is nothing else to do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (57%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: LOBSTERMEN'S ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); CANADA

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; LOBSTERS; FISHING, COMMERCIAL SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); CRUSTACEANS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (76%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); STRIKES (72%); STATISTICS (71%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK BILL PAUL (67%); JOHN HEALEY (67%); ARTHUR MEDEIROS (67%); 



913 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 3, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Bargemusic: Brooklyn's Floating Concert Site

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
''Actually, we're practicing great economy of motion here,'' said Olga Bloom, the founder of Bargemusic Ltd. Since 1977, Mrs. Bloom has been presenting weekly concerts in the refurbished coffee barge that she transformed into a floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River, near the Brooklyn Bridge.
''Water exerts a universal pull on humanity'' Mrs. Bloom said. ''People commune with nature here, to a degree. They even see a soaring seagull occasionally, and I have my scraggly, brave pines on the deck. We also offer an unmistakably warm social occasion. Our audiences are small - we can hold 140, but I usually try to cut off at 130 - so even though they don't know each other, they speak to each other readily during the intermissions. They are sharing values. And they are experiencing a noble performance of great music. All in one visit.''
Bargemusic, which is moored at Fulton Ferry Landing, at the foot of Furman Street, presents its concerts every Thursday evening and Sunday afternoon, with Friday evening concerts during the summer. This week's program, which can be heard tonight at 7:30 and on Sunday at 4 P.M., includes the Mozart Clarinet Trio in E flat (K. 498), Walter Piston's Duo for Viola and Cello, and Mendelssohn's Piano Trio in C minor (Op. 66). 
The performers are Toby Hoffman, violist; Mihae Lee, pianist; Mark Peskanov, violinist; David Shifrin, clarinetist, and Ronald Thomas, cellist. Tickets are $15, or $12 for students and the elderly. Information: (718) 624-4061.
 
Intimate Setting
Some of Bargemusic's appeal has to do with the idea that hearing a serious concert on a barge is a slightly quirky thing to do. But its principal draw is the intimacy of the performances. Now that chamber-music concerts are offered frequently in such large spaces as Avery Fisher Hall and Carnegie Hall, New York's smaller halls have lost some of their proprietary claim on the genre. But even the smallest ones have several hundred seats. And current practice aside, chamber music's historical roots are in small rooms, where most of the repertory is heard to best effect.
Bargemusic has changed a good deal since Mrs. Bloom started it 13 years ago. Her original plan was to present concerts by students at New York City's conservatories. She found immediate support from the New York State Council on the Arts. But when the council sent someone to critique the series, after a few seasons, the reviewer found the performances insufficiently rehearsed. So in 1984, Mrs. Bloom appointed Ik-Hwan Bae, a violinist who is now 33 years old, as her project's artistic director, and he helped Bargemusic set a new course.
''I got involved purely by chance,'' Mr. Bae said the other day. ''One of my colleagues who was supposed to play at the barge got sick, and asked me to sub for her. I was a last-minute thing, but I went and did it, and I fell in love with the place. Olga and I talked, and we hit it off instantly.
''But artistically and financially, the barge was not in good shape, and I saw that Olga's dream for it was not being realized. She wanted to create an environment where musicians could come and play as they would in their own living rooms. And she wanted to give opportunities to students.
''That's a very honorable dream,'' Mr. Bae said, ''but I convinced her that in order to be a successful musical organization in New York City, we simply could not depend on students alone. It's fine to bring in young talented students from time to time. But we are presenting about 120 concerts a year, and unless you have professional musicians giving concerts of first-class quality, you cannot draw the kinds of audiences and support that you need. Once we began inviting professional musicians, things got better very quickly.''
 
Friendly Get-Togethers
As artistic director, Mr. Bae is responsible for putting together the 52 weekly programs.
''I always go after the artists first, then I put together the programs,'' he said. ''I think the reason we are successful now is that we have a pool of 80 or 90 players who come from around the world, and who look at the barge the same way I do. We don't think of it as a normal concert scene, or like the places we play when we are touring. It's more like our student days, when we played chamber music with our friends, and had fun. Not that I don't have fun when I play elsewhere. But the intimate ambiance seems to hit everyone in the right place.'' Some of the players scheduled to perform over the next few months are the pianists Edward Auer, Christopher O'Riley and Paul Schoenfield; the violinist Pamela Frank; the flutist Ramson Wilson; the cellist Carter Brey, and the violist Steven Tenenbom.
Mrs. Bloom, whose husband, Tobias, was a violinist in Toscanini's NBC Symphony Orchestra, and who played the violin herself, began thinking about presenting concerts in 1975, after her husband's death. The first two barges she bought - a wooden vessel and a metal one - proved acoustically problematic. But on her third try, she found the 102-foot coffee barge, built in 1899. After spending a year refurbishing it on Long Island, she had it towed to Brooklyn, near the Brooklyn Maritime Museum and the River Cafe.
 
Weddings and Donations
When she began giving concerts on the barge, Mrs. Bloom ran the series on a shoestring budget, and she raised money partly by renting the barge out for weddings and similar events on Saturdays, and partly through donations from foundations, corporations and individuals (including many musicians). But costs, she said, have grown enormously in recent years. In 1985, her budget was $350,000. This year, it is close to $1 million.
''And I'll tell you why,'' she said. ''We have seen many changes, but one of the most important is the change in river traffic. It used to be exclusively huge freighters, which slid by without a ripple. They have all but vanished. And what we're getting now are ferries and fast-moving pleasure craft. They throw up a huge wake, which causes erosion on the shore, and loosens our line. Now we bob around quite a bit, and every time we have to call a man with a welding machine, we've got a sizable expense. But as they say, if you have to ask what it costs to run a boat, you shouldn't buy one.''
One thing Bargemusic's budget cannot cover yet is the cost of rehearsal. Usually, the musicians get together just before the Thursday evening concert. For Mrs. Bloom, there's a certain excitement to this approach: ''When you're always on the brink of disaster, the performances have a certain spontaneity.'' ''Well, Olga has a way of saying that,'' Mr. Bae said, ''but let me explain how it works. Most of the musicians who play at the barge see each other regularly at festivals around the world during the year. And in many cases, we've known each other, and played concerts together, for 10 or 15 years, ever since we were in school. When you know each other, and you know the music, you are in familiar territory. And I find that positive things can happen when you have not had endless hours to rehearse and to argue about specific points. Usually, everyone brings out the best in each other.''
 
Thoughts of Retirement
In recent years, Mrs. Bloom, who is 72 years old, has been thinking about retiring. She has appointed what she calls a board of overseers, separate from the board of directors. She and Mr. Bae are among the overseers; the others are Fred Sherry, the cellist and artistic director of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center; David Shifrin, the clarinetist who is also the director of Chamber Music Northwest, and Mr. Thomas, the cellist in tonight's concert, and also the director of the Boston Chamber Music Society.
''I have turned some of the administration of the barge over to these four young musicians in order to ensure the future,'' Mrs. Bloom said. ''Very often when a founder leaves, an organization founders. But with these artists, who were chosen both for their artistic integrity and their entrepreneurial skills, I'm hoping to create a sense of continuity.''
But Mrs. Bloom still has projects in mind. Recently, she and Mr. Bae visited Seattle, where they are considering starting a West Coast version of Bargemusic. And to hear Mrs. Bloom tell it, the New York and Seattle barges would be the start of an armada.
''One problem is that there are not many cities that have the steady variety of artists that New York has,'' Mrs. Bloom said. ''But if we organized the cities on the East and West Coasts, and put barges on various bodies of water, then we could circulate the artists. I think this could work not only in music, but in all the art forms. There is a need for grandiose events. But there is also a need for intimate ones.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Weekend on Friday about Bargemusic Ltd. referred incorrectly to a flutist who appears there. He is Ransom Wilson.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Olga Bloom, the founder of Bargemusic, during a rehearsal by Mihae Lee, pianist, and Ronald Thomas, cellist, members of tonight's quintet. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARGEMUSIC LTD

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN; BLOOM, OLGA MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 



914 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE OIL JOLT
 
The Administration has a ''short-term strategy'' for stabilizing oil markets by raising domestic production and encouraging conservation, Energy Secretary James D. Watkins said. It will not speed up a new national energy policy, he said. [Page A1.] 
 
Wholesale gasoline prices surged, reflecting concerns about low supplies and strong demand. Crude oil prices also rose, with the October contract up 85 cents a barrel, to $26.77. [D1.]
 
A substantial oil shortage will develop late this year, predicted officials at the International Energy Agency, which represents 21 oil-consuming nations. [D1.]
 
A Texas company, OGE Drilling, has cut off paychecks to families of six oil workers who are hostages of Iraq. [A18.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Even the healthiest segment of the savings industry has sharply declined in the last three months, the Government reported, providing troubling evidence that the crisis is deepening. [A1.]
 
Many officeholders who got contributions from Silverado are looking for a way to get rid of the money. [A17.]
 
Orders to factories for manufactured goods grew 1.6 percent in July, the Government reported. [D2.]
 
A capital gains tax cut ''could not be counted on'' to significantly increase American economic growth, the Congressional Budget Office said. [D2.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stocks fell in the slowest trading in three months as many investors lightened their holdings before the Labor Day weekend. The Dow slid 39.11, to 2,593.32. [D1.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed in light trading. An oil-price rise helped persuade bond traders to sell securities, but anticipation of Fed easing helped shorter-term issues. [D12.]
 
The dollar gained against leading currencies, even the yen, despite the Bank of Japan's decision to raise its discount rate. [D13.]
 
Grain and soybean futures prices dropped on continuing good growing weather in the Midwest. [D13.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Not even Morgan Stanley has been able to insulate itself from the vicissitudes of the securities business. [D1.]
 
Morgan Stanley has been selling a large number of ''junk bonds'' as part of a liquidation. [D1.]
 
Newmont Mining said it plans to sell 3.6 million new common shares in a public offering. [D1.]
 
A Federal appeals court overturned a $5.2 million libel award to the singer Wayne Newton from NBC. [A16.]
 
Harold C. Simmons said he had raised his Lockheed stake to 19.8 percent, as high as he can go without bumping into a company ''poison pill.'' [D3.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Tokyo's financial markets reacted positively to the increase in the Bank of Japan's discount rate, but a number of economists warned that it was unlikely to be the last such jump in Japanese interest rates because of growing inflationary pressures. [D6.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Of the world stock markets battered by the Mideast crisis, Thailand's has had it the worst. Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Weight Watchers will start a yearlong national TV campaign next week for its weight-loss programs, again using its persuasive selling tool - Lynn Redgrave. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D5.]
 
The Mideast crisis drew a surprisingly muted reaction from mutual fund investors. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); NEM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (52%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (75%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (52%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (73%); GRAIN MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); TAX LAW (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); US LABOR DAY (71%); COMMON STOCK (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); LIBEL & SLANDER (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (63%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (52%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 



915 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Newmont to Offer Stock; Hanson Seeks to Cut Stake

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
In a move to take advantage of the current boom in the gold industry, the Newmont Mining Corporation, the large gold mining concern that is 49 percent owned by Hanson P.L.C. of Britain, said yesterday that it plans to sell 3.6 million new common shares in a public offering.
Newmont also said it intends to sell warrants to buy 1.8 million common shares. Analysts said the sales could bring more than $160 million. 
Meanwhile, Hanson said that its United States affiliate, Hanson Industries, intends to sell 8.4 million of its Newmont common shares and 4.2 million Newmont warrants. The sale could bring Hanson more than $600 million, if all the warrants are exercised, and could reduce Hanson's stake in Newmont to about 26 percent.
''Ultimately, Hanson will dispose of the remaining Newmont shares,'' said William G. Siedenburg, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. ''But it's not clear how they will dispose of them.''
 
Financing for Acqusitions
Newmont is based in Denver and is the largest gold producer in North America. On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, its shares fell $3.375 each, to $44.50. The company has 67.6 million shares outstanding.
With uncertainties over the direction of the economy aggravated by the current crisis in the Middle East, some investors have turned to gold as an investment. At the same time, several mining companies have announced plans to finance additional capital expenditures or acquisitions of gold properties.
Two days ago, Amax Inc. said it planned to offer 9.5 million units in its Amax Gold Inc. subsidiary. Also, the American Barrick Resources Corporation, a Toronto-based mining concern, said two weeks ago that it planned to sell five million common shares in a public offering.
 
Shareholder Rights Plan
Newmont also announced yesterday that it had adopted a shareholder rights plan aimed at making it prohibitively expensive to make a hostile offer for the company. Jim Hill, a spokesman for Newmont, said that the company was not aware of any parties contemplating such an offer.
Newmont has shifted gears several times in its nearly 70-year history, changing its emphasis from copper to coal to precious metals.
Earlier this summer, it sold its 54.9 percent stake in the Peabody Coal Company to Hanson for $725.6 million. It recently sold a 19.9 percent stake in Newmont Australia to Poseidon Gold of Australia for $137 million and indicated that it wanted to sell its remaining stake. 1-Year-Old Stake Hanson acquired its stake in Newmont in August 1989 as part of its acquisition of Consolidated Gold Fields. Its sale of Newmont shares could help it recoup some of the costs of acquiring the Peabody Coal stake.
Sir Gordon White, chairman of Hanson Industries, said the offering ''will permit Newmont to raise additional capital and, at the same time, afford Consolidated Gold Fields the opportunity to monetize a portion of its investment while continuing to maintain a significant stake in Newmont.''
Hanson's holdings in Britain include Imperial Tobacco, Ever Ready batteries and London Brick. In the United States, Hanson's interests include the SCM Organic Chemicals Corporation, the Peabody Holding Company, Jacuzzi whirlpool bath products and Farberware cookware.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (91%); K (TSX) (91%); NEM (NYSE) (91%); BTU (NYSE) (85%); ABX (TSX) (84%); ABX (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327332 CONCRETE PIPE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (94%); SIC2951 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURES & BLOCKS (94%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (91%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (91%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (85%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (85%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HANSON LTD (94%); KINROSS GOLD CORP (91%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (91%); PEABODY ENERGY CORP (85%); BARRICK GOLD CORP (84%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (69%); AMAX INC (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CONSOLIDATED GOLD FIELDS PLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWMONT MINING CORP; HANSON PLC; HANSON INDUSTRIES INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES GOLD MINING (91%); COMMON STOCK (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (90%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COAL MINING (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (62%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P STAKE HANSON (59%); 



916 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Year-End Oil Shortage Predicted

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Officials at the International Energy Agency, which represents 21 oil-consuming nations, predict that a substantial oil shortage will develop late this year. At present, however, daily worldwide demand for oil is only slightly greater than supply, despite the embargo on Iraqi and Kuwaiti crude.
As the agency's governing board prepared for a meeting on Friday, an official said the worldwide shortage in September would be only 100,000 barrels a day, despite the loss of some 4.3 million barrels a day from Iraq and Kuwait.
As a result, a senior agency official predicted in an interview, the United States, West Germany, Japan and other members of the agency at Friday's meeting would probably postpone any decision to begin drawing oil from their government-controlled strategic reserves, saying only that they will act at the appropriate time. 
 
Known as Consumers' Club
Industrialized oil-consuming nations formed the agency in 1974 to help protect against oil shocks. The agency has worked to develop policies, like increasing strategic reserves and putting in place emergency conservation programs, to help cope with an oil crisis. It has also encouraged alternative energy forms like coal and nuclear power.
The agency - often called the oil consumers club - includes the United States, Canada, Japan, most Western European nations, Australia and New Zealand. The group, which acts by consensus and is charged with coordinating the industrialized world's response to an energy crisis, is highly regarded for the work it does in monitoring oil supply and demand.
Agency officials said a serious shortage had not yet developed because oil companies had drawn down their petroleum stocks, production had increased in some countries and demand had dropped modestly.
But a senior agency economist said that - despite Wednesday's decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to allow members who can produce more oil to begin pumping immediately - the worldwide shortage could rise to 200,000 barrels a day in October and to more than 500,000 barrels a day in December as demand swells with cold weather and as oil companies and some countries feel they should stop drawing down their stocks.
 
Refusal to Tap Reserves
OPEC officials said their action would replace nearly all the oil lost from Iraq and Kuwait, but agency offcials expect the move to add only four million barrels a day.
''A shortage of 100,000 barrels a day is manageable, but uncomfortable, but a shortage of 500,000 barrels a day is unmanageable,'' said an agency official. ''If it gets up above that level, then the shoe really starts to pinch.'' Member governments might then decide to draw down their strategic reserves, agency officials say.
Many oil experts and economists have criticized the agency's members for their refusal so far to tap their emergency reserves. They say such a move would have gone far to hold down oil prices, forestalling damage to the world's economic growth.
But agency officials say that the United States and other leading agency members contend that the reserves should be drawn down only when there is a serious shortage. ''The philosophy, particularly among the major holders of emergency stocks, is to look at the situation in terms of physical volume, rather than influencing the market,'' said an agency economist.
 
'A Little More Hairy'
Peter Bogin, a Paris-based oil economist with Cambridge Energy Research Associates, agrees with the I.E.A. that a significant shortage will develop by late fall. ''In the November-December period things will start to get a little more hairy,'' he said. ''Even with the OPEC decision, you're still not going to get the full four million barrels a day, and the quality of the replacement oil is not as good as the missing Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil.''
Saudi Arabian officials said they had increased production to 7.5 million barrels a day, from 5.5 million, and would lift their output to 8 million by September; Venezuela plans to increase its output by some 500,000 barrels a day. But much of the Saudi oil is medium and heavy, and the Venezuelan oil is also heavy. This, oil experts say, will mean a shortage of light oil and its derivatives - kerosene, airplane fuel and gasoline - and possibly an excess of heavy products, like sludgy oil derivatives used for paving roads.
Agency officials calculate that all but 100,000 barrels of the 4.3 million-barrel-a-day September shortfall will be made up in the following way:
* Oil companies will draw down their stocks by about one million barrels a day, and OPEC nations will reduce their stocks on the seas by some 200,000 barrels.
* OPEC is expected to have increased daily production by 1.3 million barrels by late September, Mexico by 100,000 barrels a day and industrialized nations by 300,000.
* Non-OPEC non-industrialized countries like Malaysia and India are expected to draw down their reserves by some 600,000 barrels a day.
* Demand will be reduced by 150,000 barrels a day as the industrialized countries stop building their strategic reserves, by 200,000 barrels a day as power plans switch to substitute fuels from oil and by 300,000 barrels a day as a result of higher fuel prices.
* Government-encouraged conservation could pare demand by another 50,000 barrels a day.
Robert Mabro, director of the Oxford Institute for Energy Research, said the agency's scenario might be overly optimistic. He questioned whether oil companies would be willing to draw down their commercial stocks to the extent the agency foresees. He also said that even if they did, they would ultimately move to rebuild those stocks, which could increase daily demand, and thus aggravate the supply imbalance.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Sources, in millions of barrels to alleviate the daily loss of 4.3 million barrels of oil (Source: International Energy Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (93%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FORECASTS; SHORTAGES; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; PRODUCTION PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN



917 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall As Trading Dries Up

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday in the slowest trading in three months as many investors lightened their holdings before the Labor Day weekend.
Program traders were extremely active, knocking the market down sharply.
The Dow Jones industrial average slid 39.11 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,593.32, while the broader Standard & Poor's index of 500 leading stocks fell 5.48, or 1.7 percent, to 318.71.
The smaller stocks, as measured by the Nasdaq composite index and the American Stock Exchange's market value index, fared a little better. 
The Nasdaq fell back 3.10, or eight-tenths of 1 percent, to 378.68, while the Amex slipped 1.32, or four-tenths of 1 percent, to 322.91. 120.89 Million Shares Traded Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange slowed to 120.89 million shares from 134.24 million on Wednesday. Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones 998 to 482, and 66 issues reached new lows while only 3 hit new highs.
Among the new highs was Kansas Gas and Electric, which hit 25 7/8 before ending at 25 3/4, up 1/4. Kansas City Power and Light, which is offering $27 a share for Kansas Gas, said Wednesday that it might raise its bid.
One trader said yesterday's market drop was ''really not very meaningful.'' He said the market's moves next week, when a flurry of economic data are scheduled for release, could be ''much more important.''
''It's not because you're bearish or because war could break out,'' he said, referring to yesterday's selling. ''It's because you're coming into a three-day weekend and you certainly aren't going to hold positions until Tuesday.''
He maintained that many professional traders took this week off and that many others, in anticipation that investors would sell stocks today, decided to beat them to it.
 
Thin Market Expected
The trader predicted that because volume would probably be light today, stocks would decline. But he said the news today could have more of an impact on prices than on a normal trading day because the market would be so thin.
Birinyi Associates, which monitors program trading, said selling programs began barely 10 minutes after the opening bell yesterday, continued for more than a quarter of an hour and knocked close to 19 points off the Dow. A 12-minute series of selling programs starting at 3:25 P.M. knocked 15 more points off the Dow.
Throughout the day, Birinyi said, seven selling programs clipped a total of 72 points off the Dow.
Program trading is a technique that involves simultaneous trading in stock-index futures and the underlying stocks that make up the index to profit from price differences between the two markets.
With crude oil up 85 cents a barrel yesterday, to $26.77 a barrel, the Dow Jones average of 20 transportation stocks fell 9.87, or 1.08 percent, to 901.26. Among airline stocks, AMR fell 1, to 45 1/4 and UAL fell 2 1/4, to 93.
 
Blue-Chip Stocks Decline
Among the blue chips in the Dow industrial average, A.T.&T. fell a point, to 31 1/2; Chevron 1 1/2, to 75 1/4; General Motors 1 3/8, to 39 1/4; Coca-Cola 1 1/2, to 41 1/4; I.B.M. 2 1/8, to 101 3/4; Merck 2, to 80, and Texaco 1 1/8, to 62 1/8.
Among the 10 most-active stocks on the Big Board, Wal-Mart Stores fell 1 1/4, to 27 3/4; Philip Morris 1, to 44 1/2, and General Electric 3/4, to 61 7/8, all in heavy trading.
Home Shopping Network gained 3/4, to 5 3/4. The company, which reported sales last year of $774 million, said sales for the year ended today topped $1 billion.
Newmont Mining fell 3 3/8, to 44 1/2, after Consolidated Gold Fields, which owns 49 percent, said it would sell some of Newmont's stock. After the sale, Consolidated's stake in Newmont dropped to 26 percent, a sign that its interest in taking over Newmont had cooled. Newmont Gold, controlled by Newmont Mining, fell 2, to 46 1/2. Meanwhile, ASA, a leading gold stock, rose a point, to 49 5/8, as gold rose $1.20 an ounce, to $386.70.
 
Lower Earning Estimates
Melville, the shoe and apparel chain, fell 3, to 42 after William N. Smith, a retailing analyst for Smith Barney, Harris Upham, cut his earnings estimates.
Intel, the semiconductor producer, was among the most-active Nasdaq stocks, falling 1 7/8, to 33 1/8, as two million shares were traded. Gilbert P. Hyatt, a Southern California inventor, won a microprocessor patent that could bring him royalty payments.
Sierra Tucson, which operates alcohol and drug rehabilitation centers, plunged 4 3/4 in heavy trading, to 7 1/2, after forecasting lower profits.

GRAPHIC: Favorite stocks chart (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); KANSAS GAS & ELECTRIC CO (55%); KANSAS CITY POWER & LIGHT CO (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); US LABOR DAY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (79%); BONDS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (66%); 



918 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Gasoline Price Soars

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Wholesale gasoline prices surged yesterday, reflecting traders' concerns about low supplies and strong demand. Crude oil prices also rose, with the contract for October delivery up 85 cents a barrel, or 3.3 percent, to $26.77 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Also unsettling the markets were remarks by Saddam Hussein, Iraq's President, yesterday and late Wednesday. Traders feared that war remained a possibility in the Middle East. 
Even small news items, like reports of large gasoline contract purchases by an unidentified Wall Street brokerage house at midday, produced large price swings in tense trading, said Michael Wilner, the president of Hilltop Trading Company Inc., an independent trading and brokerage firm on the floor of the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 
'Getting Battle Weary'
''The main thing that's happening in these energy markets is that people are incredibly, incredibly nervous, and the activity is absolutely frenetic,'' he said, adding, ''Judgments tend to be a little less than keen right now, because people are getting battle weary.''
Trading of gasoline, heating oil and other petroleum products was particularly heavy on the eve of the expiration of some futures contracts today. Traders who had committed to delivering oil scrambled to find cargos to meet these contracts. Large oil companies are holding most of the available stocks and are selling little, Mr. Wilner said.
The gasoline contract for September delivery rose 4.35 cents a gallon, or 5.1 percent, to close at 89.07 cents. The contract for September delivery of heating oil increased 3.9 cents, or 5.4 percent, to close at 75.54 cents a gallon.
Traders and analysts said there were widespread concerns about possible shortages of refinery capacity. Kuwait and Iraq, which exported fourmillion barrels of oil exports a day before a United Nations embargo was imposed, sent out 630,000 to 800,000 barrels of that as refined products.
Although the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries authorized all production necessary to stabilize energy markets on Wednesday, a move that could lead to an extra four million barrels a day, almost all of that will be shipped as crude for lack of extra refinery capacity, said Fareed Mohamedi, an economist at the Petroleum Finance Company in Washington.
''I think that'll result in stock drawdowns,'' he said.
Another factor is that Kuwaiti and Iraqi oilfields produce a lighter oil that, when refined, yields a higher proportion of gasoline than oil from most other countries.
Military activities in the Persian Gulf and reduced refinery production there could trim exports of such petroleum products as jet fuel, household kerosene and home heating oil by 500,000 barrels a day, Bernard J. Picchi, an oil industry analyst at Salomon Brothers in New York, said. A lack of refinery capacity will become ''particularly noticeable'' as winter approaches, with shortages possibly resulting, and gasoline and heating oil prices almost certainly rising, he said.
The Strategic Petroleum Reserve, a Government emergency stockpile, consists of crude oil, not petroleum products, Mr. Picchi added.
 
Down to 210 Million Barrels
But some experts contended yesterday that enough refinery capacity could be found. William D. Hermann, the chief economist of the Chevron Corporation, said that while refineries in the United States were already very busy, there was extra capacity elsewhere.
Some of the 120 older, mostly small refineries in the United States that have been closed in the last 10 years could probably be reopened if needed, he said.
The American Petroleum Institute estimated Tuesday that the nation's gasoline stocks were down to 210 million barrels, not far above the 200 million barrel minimum that oil companies try to have on hand for routine operations. A three-week moving average shows American demand for gasoline set a new record last week, and demand will probably be strong over the Labor Day weekend, said Robert S. Jonke, an energy futures trader at Cargill Investor Services.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Crude oil prices from 7/2/90 to 8/27/90 (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); KUWAIT (93%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; SHORTAGES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); GASOLINE MARKETS (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); JET FUEL (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); FUEL DEALERS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); 



919 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Thai Stock Boom Grinds to a Halt

BYLINE: By Steven Erlanger

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand

 BODY:
BRASH and booming Thailand, which has been enjoying some of the world's highest growth rates in the last few years, has suffered something of a nervous breakdown this month, as the shock waves set off by President Saddam Hussein of Iraq have ricocheted around the world.
After surging 85 percent in a year, the Thai stock market fell farther faster than any other market in the world. In the 17 trading days between Aug. 1, the day before Iraq invaded Kuwait, and last Friday, the Securities Exchange of Thailand index lost 39.1 percent of its value, falling from 1,142.63 to 695.81, its lowest level since Oct. 31, 1989.
The move was almost enough to stop the pile drivers that are forming the foundations of the condominiums and office buildings that are supposed to service Bangkok's boom. The biggest concern during the market's tumble, economists say, was that the real estate sector might collapse, leading to a larger loss of confidence. The sector is already regarded as a little too hot and speculative for anyone's good. 
The Government became so worried that it decided to intervene. It established a $195 million mutual fund, to which all brokers had to contribute, to buy shares and provide liquidity to the market. If necessary, officials said, the sum could be doubled.
The fund, called Ruam Pattana II (''Joint Development II''), has a five-year maturity, and is modeled after Ruam Pattana I, set up after the stock market collapse of October 1987. The first fund was one-fifth the size, but seemed to help, prompting a rapid recovery of the market.
Fund II seemed to help this time, too. The S.E.T. index, as it is called, made gains of some 60 points a day early this week, and there was a general easing of concern. On Thursday the index closed at 839.80. Nevertheless, some economists contend that the Government intervened too quickly. ''I think the fund created an artificial bottom faster than necessary,'' said Chesada Loha-unchit, managing director of Tara Siam Business Information Ltd., a leading Thai research institute. ''The bottom was very near, but a lot of people with confidence in the market didn't want to buy before the bottom. I think the authorities were too nervous.''
Mr. Chesada, like most economists here, forecasts that the rise in oil prices will curb the growth of Thailand's economy, but says that Thailand is better positioned to adjust than it was during the last oil shock, in 1979. It is also probably better off than many of its neighbors, who depend more directly on exports to the United States, which seems to be veering into recession.
But no one knows if there will be a war, or what the price of oil is going to be next year. Narongchai Akrasanee, vice president of the Thailand Development Research Institute, the country's leading institute, said he expected that if oil prices average about $25 a barrel, Thailand's growth in 1991 will slow to 5 percent or 6 percent from an initial forecast of 9.3 percent, while inflation will reach 7.5 percent, instead of 6 percent.
Mark Greenwood, managing director of Asia Equity Thailand Ltd., said that with oil at $30 a barrel, inflation would be near 10 percent and growth would be cut to 6 percent. At $25 a barrel, he said both growth and inflation would be about 8 percent.
The main worry, he said, is inflation in real estate, ''which has a lot of froth.'' But compared to 1979, he said, when imported crude oil filled 80 percent of Thailand's energy needs, the figure today, after natural gas development, is 40 percent, representing only 9 percent of total imports.
Mr. Chesada agreed, saying that 1979 found a weak Government here with a large budget deficit and the baht tied to the dollar. Today, with a budget in the black and a floating baht, he said, Thailand has much more room to use fiscal policy. If there is a recession and a drop in exports, he said, the Government could put money into badly needed infrastructure projects - telephones and building mass transit to ease the paralyzing traffic, which happen to be most businessmen's biggest complaints.
Thailand also has a new Finance Minister, Virabongsa Ramangura, who when appointed Monday was in Vientiane, Laos, finishing a contract to advise the Laotian Government. In the face of rising oil prices, he said, he would concentrate on more austerity in Government spending and perhaps, finally, a tax overhaul. A nonpartisan technocrat and economic adviser to former Prime Minister Prem Tinsulanonda, Mr. Ramangura said he was known as an ''austerity economist.''
Almost more important, Mr. Virabongsa is regarded as a far less stubborn and difficult man than his flamboyant predecessor, Pramual Sabhavasu, a party regular in Chart Thai, the leading party in the ruling coalition. Mr. Pramual was named to a deputy prime minister's post. Mr. Pramual, known for his toughness, said he had not been told in advance of the change, and he left the ministry in tears. A lot of bankers were happy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: THAILAND (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;THAILAND; MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MUTUAL FUNDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (83%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 



920 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Reduction In Gains Tax Is Questioned

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A reduction in the Federal capital gains tax ''could not be counted on'' to increase American economic growth significantly, the Congressional Budget Office said today.
''It is unlikely that the increase in income would generate enough additional tax revenue'' to offset losses to the Treasury, said the report, which was requested by the Congressional committees that write the nation's tax laws and prepare the budget.
During his campaign for the Presidency in 1988, President Bush said cutting the capital gains tax rate was a top priority. But the Democratic-controlled Congress has refused to enact the proposal. 
 
Gains Tax Reduction Sought
The Administration has been seeking a reduction in the capital gains tax rate during this year's budget negotiations with lawmakers.
Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who is the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said the study was ''an objective assessment'' of previous reports on the capital gains tax cut the President proposed in his fiscal 1991 budget. Mr. Rostenkowski has opposed reducing the rate.
Capital gains are profits from selling stock, real estate and other investments. They are taxed at the same rates that apply to wages and other income. Legislation supported by the Administration and its Congressional backers last year would have excluded up to 30 percent of capital gains from taxes.
The new report questioned economic assumptions used by the Bush Administration, including a projection that such a cut would reduce the deficit by $12.5 billion over the years 1990 to 1995.
The Congressional Budget Office, a nonpartisan agency, said the Administration's studies ''made optimistic assumptions about how much cutting capital gains taxes would raise the real after-tax return received by savers and reduce the cost of capital faced by businesses.''
''Under plausible assumptions,'' it continued, ''cutting taxes on capital gains could even slow capital formation and slow growth if the deficit was increased by more than the increase in private savings.
''Taken together,'' the report said, ''the studies thus raise doubt about whether cutting taxes on capital gains can be counted on to raise saving and investment enough to significantly increase the gross national product.''
 
Different Projections
The Treasury Department has projected that the cut would raise tax collections every year, and by $12.5 billion in the initial five-year period. But Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation has forecast annual losses in revenues after the first two years and losses totaling $11.4 billion over the period.
In a study conducted in February, the committee also concluded that more than 83 percent of the direct benefits of the tax cut would go to people with annual incomes greater than $100,000 a year.
The report released today was based on an analysis of eight previous studies on the effects of a cut in the capital gains tax, including two by the Congressional Budget Office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS CAPITAL GAINS TAX (95%); BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (66%); 

PERSON: ROSTENKOWSKI, DAN (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



921 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Recovery Is Seen for Texas

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: DALLAS, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Economists are starting to see proof that the Texas economy is recovering from the deep slump caused by the collapse of oil prices in 1985, a Federal Reserve Bank official said today.
''Things are indeed getting better,'' Harvey Rosenblum, senior vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, told a group of business leaders. 
Employment, banking statistics and credit figures show that over all, the state's economy is much healthier than it was late last year, although some areas, notably the Houston region and south Texas, remain depressed.
Non-agricultural employment has reached seven million workers, up from the 1986 trough of 6.2 million, Mr. Rosenblum said.
The Dallas area has fared well, with two jobs having been created for every job lost in the recession, he said.
After several years of credit shrinkage, Texas ''is on the verge'' of credit expansion, Mr. Rosenblum said, adding that ''lending will probably expand in 1990 for the first time in several years.'' But he added that troubled banks still outnumbered healthy ones in Texas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); RECESSION (79%); TRENDS (79%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AGRICULTURE (54%); 

PERSON: ROSENBLUM, HARVEY HARVEY ROSENBLUM (90%); 



922 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Up 1.6% in July

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Orders to factories for manufactured goods grew 1.6 percent in July, the Government reported today. But analysts said the fluctuating performance so far this year suggested an anemic industrial economy even before the Persian Gulf crisis.
''It confirms that before the situation in the Middle East, things were sluggish but growing,'' said Thomas Runiewicz, an economist with the WEFA Group in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. But now, with the Middle East problem and energy prices higher, he said he would expect to see factory orders down in August and ''especially this fall.'' 
The Commerce Department said orders for both durable and nondurable goods rose $3.8 billion, to a seasonally adjusted $240.3 billion, after declining 1.9 percent in June. The gain was attributable mostly to a jump in orders for durable goods, particularly aircraft.
 
Up Three, Down Four
So far this year, factory orders have been up in three months and down in four, including a 5.5 percent drop in January, the sharpest decline since a 7 percent plunge in the recession month of December 1974.
''Basically, orders have been flat because of the month-to-month volatility,'' said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis. ''It's consistent with a slowing, weakening economy, which could get into a recession shortly.''
Today's report said orders for durable goods - items expected to last more than three years - rose 2.8 percent, to $128.2 billion, after falling 3 percent a month earlier. The increase was a slight revision from the 2.9 percent advance reported last week.
Orders for nondurable goods rose two-tenths of 1 percent, to $112.1 billion, after falling four-tenths of 1 percent a month earlier.
Among the durable categories, transportation orders were up 4.9 percent, to $34.9 billion, after a 6.3 percent decline the previous month. Much of the increase was in aircraft orders. Excluding the transportation category, orders would have risen 1.1 percent.
In the important category of nonmilitary capital goods, a barometer of business investment plans, orders gained 10 percent, to $39.8 billion. But most of the increase also was in aircraft, and aircraft orders are expected to slow.
Military orders fell 3 percent, to $7.6 billion after a 21.8 percent decline in June. Excluding military, factory orders were up 1.8 percent.
Inventories increased seven-tenths of 1 percent, to $373.3 billion, the largest one-month increase since a rise of eight-tenths of 1 percent last January.
''At first glance, this would appear quite disturbing,'' said Evalina Tainer, an economist with the First National Bank of Chicago, since a pileup of unsold goods could bring about a drop in production and job layoffs.
But much of the stockpile was automobiles in anticipation of a possible strike this fall, she explained. The United Automobile Workers contract with the Big Three auto makers expires Sept. 14.
Unfilled orders rose six-tenths of 1 percent, to $520.4 billion, while shipments declined eight-tenths of 1 percent, to $237.5 billion.
In addition to transportation, new orders rose in other durable-goods categories including primary metals, up 3.5 percent, to $11.9 billion; non-electrical machinery, up 2.3 percent, to $22.3 billion, and electrical machinery, up 1.5 percent, to $20.3 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Factory orders from 2/89 to 7/90 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); FACTORY ORDERS (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); RECESSION (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); 



923 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Fund Investors Remain Steadfast

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, and the subsequent plunge in stock market prices, drew a surprisingly muted reaction from mutual fund investors, several mutual fund companies said yesterday. Some managers said investors even stepped up their purchases of stock funds.
''Surprisingly enough, we had a pretty good month here, probably the best month since April,'' said Henry Schmelzer of New England Securities.
While other fund organizations, particularly ones that sell directly to consumers, reported that cash was taken out of the funds on a net basis, they noted that new sales of stock funds remained strong, as many investors sought to profit by buying funds at depressed prices. 
''Over all, the cash outflow in August was just a little larger than July's net inflow,'' said Jane Nelson, a spokeswoman for T. Rowe Price. At the Vanguard Group, Brian Mattes, a spokesman, referred to ''an incredibly small outflow'' from stock funds. ''The reaction has been very muted, given the extreme stress the market has been under,'' he added. Stock prices fell sharply for much of August, although they recovered to some extent early this week.
Another sign of investor confidence that the turndown in stock prices is temporary came in a survey of Fidelity Investments customers. Michael Hines said it showed that 21 percent of stock fund owners planned to buy in the next three months, up from 16 percent in a similar survey a month earlier. The percentage who said they planned to sell fell to zero from 4 percent in July, he said. ''It shows that the people who wanted to sell have done so,'' he added.
The statements came as the Investment Company Institute, a trade group, released figures for July, showing that only $131 million flowed into equity funds that month, the poorest showing since January, when $242 million came out of such funds.
In July the Dow peaked at just below 3,000 and began to slide, and investors responded by withdrawing $991 million from funds that invest primarily in American stocks. But that outflow was offset by a record inflow of $934 million into international funds, which invest overseas, and a flow of $188 million into global funds, which can invest either overseas or in American markets.
Foreign markets have also suffered heavily this month, and some fund officials said money had flowed out of international stock funds in August.
The cash flow figures include new sales and redemptions of fund shares, as well as exchanges between different funds. They do not include reinvested dividends.
The big movements out of stock funds, in both July and August, came from the minority of investors who seek to time markets by moving from one fund to another within the same group of funds. In July, those investors moved a net $1.2 billion out of funds, and officials of fund groups that cater to such investors said the trend continued this month.
''There were heavy net exchanges out of equity funds,'' Mr. Hines of Fidelity Investments said. But he added that for the whole month, the exchanges out of stock funds might be less than in July.
In general, the heaviest withdrawals from stock funds this month came from funds that are marketed directly to consumers, like Fidelity and T. Rowe Price's, rather than from funds sold through investment advisers, like New England Securities, which is represented by both stockbrokers and insurance agents.
''We had net positive sales in both equity and fixed-income funds,'' said Jack Thomas, a senior vice president of IDS Financial Services, whose funds are sold by financial planners.
''We're not seeing people aggressively selling their funds,'' reported Robert Leo, the director of mutual funds at Shearson Lehman Brothers. ''I think a lot of people are aware this thing can turn very quickly.''
Many fund managers reported that investors moved cash out of long-term fixed income funds as interest rates rose during August. They also said that renewed talk of recession had caused investors to withdraw cash from ''junk bond'' funds. After heavy cash withdrawals from those funds earlier in the year, they had net cash inflows in May, June and July. Indeed, the July figure was $136 million.
Sales of municipal bond funds were reported to have continued strong in August, after seeing net inflows of $1.5 billion in July.
The professionals who manage mutual funds poured cash into the stock market in May and June, but grew a bit more cautious in July, lowering the cash proportion of total stock fund assets to 10.7 percent from a revised June figure of 10.8 percent. In April, the figure hit a record 12.5 percent.
Investors' reluctance to dump stock funds when prices fell stands in sharp contrast to the reaction in 1987, when there was intense selling after the crash and the flow of new purchases dried up. ''Everybody was concerned we'd run into one of those crunches like 1987,'' said Mr. Schmelzer of New England, ''but it was pretty much business as usual.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (73%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (90%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; KUWAIT; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (76%); DIVIDENDS (73%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD MICHAEL HINES (57%); 



924 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Markets Rally After Central Bank Raises Rate

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Aug. 31

 BODY:
The financial markets here reacted positively to Thursday's increase in the Bank of Japan's discount rate, but a number of economists warned that it was unlikely to be the last such jump in Japanese interest rates because of growing inflationary pressures.
In trading today on the Tokyo stock exchange, share prices rose strongly and the Nikkei index was up more than 500 points at one point. But during the last half-hour of trading the market dropped back somewhat, and the Nikkei ended with a gain of 308.41, or 1.2 percent, to 25,978.37. Reuters reported that, late in the day, the Bank of Japan had recalled 300 billion yen in loans to banks. 
The stock market rose and bond prices rallied on Thursday after the early-morning announcement that the central bank had increased the discount rate to 6 percent from 5.25 percent, the fifth increase since May 1989. On Wednesday, the markets were swept by rumors that the rate rise was coming, so traders were prepared when the announcement came.
The bellwether rate is now more than double its level a year ago, but it has lagged behind even sharper increases in market-determined interest rates.
Though the move was anticipated, there was some criticism and concern on Thursday. Kabun Moto, the Minister of International Trade and Industry, said inflationary pressures had not yet even begun to force prices higher and thus the move was premature. He added that retail oil prices were unlikely to rise until later this year and that the real burden of higher rates will fall hardest on small and medium-sized businesses.
 
Concern Over U.S. Reaction
Others worried that the move might put upward pressure on American interest rates as the American economy is weakening and vulnerable. In fact, there were reports that the central bank had purposely waited until the Government announced its package of measures to support the multinational force in Saudi Arabia trying to enforce the embargo on trade with Iraq.
The Nihon Keizai Shimbun, a leading economic newspaper, said the central bank had been seeking approval from the Finance Ministry for several weeks to initiate the rate rise. It had delayed, the report said, out of concern that an early move might stir criticism in the United States that Japan was putting its own interests ahead of the common front needed to confront Iraq.
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu announced Japan's aid package late Wednesday evening, less than 12 hours before the Bank of Japan said it was increasing the discount rate.
Eishiro Saito, the chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations, which represents Japan's biggest companies, noted that the Japanese economy was generally healthy and thus could withstand higher rates. But he added, ''The problem is how the higher rate will affect the U.S. economy and foreign exchange rates.''
 
A Pre-emptive Move
Yasushi Mieno, the governor of the Bank of Japan, described the move at a morning press conference as pre-emptive, saying it was an attempt to halt inflationary pressures even before prices began to rise sharply; consumer prices are expected to rise by less than 3 percent this year.
But Mr. Mieno indicated that the central bank would have to remain ''flexible'' and consider further rate increases if the Persian Gulf crisis pushes oil prices even higher. Japan imports nearly all of its energy supply.
''The central bank is catching up with the the market, but they're not ahead of it,'' said Robert Alan Feldman, an economist with Salomon Brothers Asia. ''At this point, three-quarters of a point is not enough, and you could well see another move later.''
On Thursday, the stock market fidgeted immediately after the announcement, then moved much higher in the afternoon. The Nikkei index jumped 775.17 points, to 25,669.96. An estimated 530 million shares were traded, a moderately active day. The rise reversed most of Wednesday's 816-point decline.
Meanwhile, the 10-year Government bond yield slid to 8.115 percent from 8.3 percent Wednesday, a relatively large decline.
And despite the rise in the discount rate, the yen fell against the dollar on Thursday. Because the move had been anticipated, it had little impact on currency markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN; TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); 

PERSON: YASUSHI MIENO (56%); 



925 of 925 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Short-Term Treasuries Advance

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed in light trading yesterday. An 85-cent rise in oil prices, to $26.77 a barrel, helped persuade bond traders to sell securities, but anticipation that the Federal Reserve Board might be on the verge of easing monetary policy helped push up prices of shorter-term notes and bills.
''The Government market is gearing up for an easing in Fed policy,'' one trader said. ''The market is expecting the Fed to move, and positions seem to reflect it.'' 
Weakness in the economy, coupled with relative stability in oil prices over the past few days, has raised hopes that the Fed might move soon.
Those who were betting the central bank would move very quickly were disappointed yesterday; the Fed's open market operations gave no indication that policy had been altered.
Nevertheless, a number of analysts said that a lowering of the overnight rate for bank loans in the Federal funds market, the short-term rate most closely controlled by the Fed, was imminent.
 
Awaiting 2 Reports
''We look for the Fed to ease policy sometime next week,'' analysts at MMS International, an economic information and forecasting service, said in their daily market commentary. ''The best window of opportunity would be after the purchasing managers' report and before the employment data.''
The August survey of the nation's purchasing managers is expected to be released on Tuesday. A report on employment conditions during August is expected from the Labor Department on Sept. 7.
''If oil prices stabilize at around current levels, I think that would provide an opportunity for the Fed to move,'' said Rudolf Thunberg, an economist at Ried Thunberg & Company, an investment advisory firm in Westport, Conn.
Dealers said that activity was fairly brisk early in the session, but trading slowed as the session progressed and market participants began to look toward the Labor Day weekend. In observance of the holiday, trading will stop at 2 P.M. today. The credit markets will be closed on Monday.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds of 2020, were offered at a price of 97 3/4, down 17/32, to yield 8.96 percent, up from a yield of 8.91 percent late Wednesday.
Yesterday's price move was one of the smallest for the issue in several weeks. Movements in oil prices and developments in the Persian Gulf since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 have recently made the most speculative Treasury issue even more volatile.
Among note issues, the 8 3/4 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 13/ 32, down 9/32, to yield 8.84 percent.
The two issues that were auctioned earlier this week continued to trade at close to their auction prices.
Late yesterday the 8 1/8 percent two-year notes sold on Tuesday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.09 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 8.51 percent in when-issued trading.
Short-term Treasury bill rates fell slightly, reflecting anticipation of an easing move by the Fed.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.42 percent, down 3 basis points, or hundreths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by 4 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.38 percent. And one-year bill rates fell by a similar amount, to a late rate of 7.25 percent.
Dealers said that the increase in Japan's discount rate to 6 percent,from 5.25 percent, during overnight trading in Tokyo had been anticipated and was not a factor in the fixed-income markets yesterday.
Unlike a growing number of his colleagues, Michael J. Moran, the chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc., does not expect the Fed to move quickly to lower interest rates.
''I think the Fed will wait and look at the employment report, and if that provides any new evidence that the economy is even weaker than previously, then they will ease,'' Mr. Moran said. ''I think the Fed won't move until it has a clear case to adjust interest rates.''
 
Corporate and Municipal Issues
Activity in the secondary markets for investment-grade corporate and tax-exempt municipal bonds was light, dealers said.
Prices of most corporate bonds dipped by 1/4 of a point to 1/2 of a point, market participants said. Meanwhile, prices of actively quoted municipal securities fell a by a range of 1/8 of a point to 1/4 of a point.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve reported that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose in the week ended Aug. 20. The report had no impact on prices in the credit markets.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Tax-exempt yields (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); US LABOR DAY (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (61%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

 
