

601 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Tangling in the Shadow Of Wrigley

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- About the time the first pitch was thrown at Wrigley Field in a game between the Cubs and the St. Louis Cardinals on a recent night, a local group, the East Lake View Neighbors, called a meeting to order two blocks away. The agenda was to discuss proposed Wrigley renovations that the Cubs had submitted to the City Council.
The team's presentation included a slide show with facts, figures and renderings. As Mike Lufrano, the Cubs' vice president for community affairs, explained the concept of bringing street fairs to Sheffield Avenue, which borders Wrigley to the east, he was stopped.
''Can you go over that again?'' a man asked. ''I oppose it, but I want to make sure I know what I'm opposing.'' 
Just a week before, Tom Ricketts, the Cubs' chairman, broached the idea of moving the team, as unthinkable as that would seem.
This has been the tenor of negotiations since the Ricketts family bought the Cubs and Wrigley Field for $845 million in 2009 and began pushing for a stadium renovation. A deal has yet to be completed and resentment is on the rise, even though there are obvious shared interests at play.
''Wrigleyville needs the Cubs, and the Cubs need Wrigleyville,'' said Representative Mike Quigley, a season-ticket holder whose district includes the stadium.
The back and forth over Wrigley's fate is more complicated than the usual ultimatums issued by municipalities and sports franchises over stadium financing. The ballpark is wildly popular, and a protected city landmark in the heart of an affluent residential area. Navigating the sometimes byzantine world of Chicago politics can also require a steep learning curve. Another key sticking point involves the rooftop businesses across the street, which charge for seating and refreshments and have a contract with the Cubs to preserve their views of the playing field.
The Ricketts family has struggled to navigate this landscape, including failed requests for public financing and public-relations flubs. Still, the goal for all involved appears to offer common ground: improve a ballpark that will turn 100 next season, and continue a symbiotic relationship that benefits Wrigleyville, the city and the team.
Compromise, however, has remained a bitter pill.
''Everyone is wrong,'' said the Illinois political insider Rich Miller, who publishes the Capitol Fax newsletter in Springfield. ''But at the same time, everyone has a point.''
The Cubs submitted their latest plans to City Hall on May 1, setting the stage for public consideration of the $500 million project. The team wants to build a 175-room hotel across the street from Wrigley and a 6,000-square-foot video board in left field, and add more than 40,000 square feet of advertising signage in and around the stadium. The proposal also calls for street fairs around the park on game days, more night games and concerts, and an improvement of the baseball facilities.
The Rickettses did not intend to foot the bill because Wrigley, the third-most-popular tourist attraction in Illinois, is as much economic driver as beautiful ballpark. But attempts for direct public subsidies stalled twice, including last year, when it became known that Joe Ricketts, the family patriarch, was planning to finance what were perceived as racially tinged attacks against President Obama during his re-election campaign. (Obama is a Chicagoan, and Mayor Rahm Emanuel is his former chief of staff.)
In January, the Cubs changed course and offered to finance the construction as long as they could raise revenue through more advertising -- which is restricted by Wrigley's landmark status, zoning laws and the rooftops -- and more events and concessions.
In a renewed effort to rally public support, the team has put the renovation in baseball terms. This season, Tom Ricketts said the improvements and increased team revenue would mean a World Series title for the franchise, which last won one in 1908.
The reaction has been mixed, mostly because, according to Forbes, the team has baseball's top operating profit, $32.1 million, and is worth $1 billion, fourth highest in the major leagues, despite holding the majors' greatest debt, $580 million. Tom Ricketts disputed Forbes's numbers at a recent news conference but did not offer specifics.
''The Cubs are responding to the fact that as profitable as they are, they could still be more profitable,'' said Roger Noll, professor of economics emeritus at Stanford. ''Put simply, they want to make more money.''
This is not the first time Wrigley has been caught between tradition and the lure of modern revenue streams. When the Tribune Company bought the Cubs in 1981 for $20.5 million, it tried to install lights at Wrigley, then the only major league stadium without them. Neighborhood groups opposed the lights, and the team lost its case in the Illinois Supreme Court before eventually reaching a deal for a limited number of night games during the 1988 season.
Now the money at stake is far greater, and the interests around Wrigley have multiplied. In addition to the rooftop businesses, more than 80 bars and restaurants are within a mile of the park. The median home price in the neighborhood is near $1 million.
As Quigley said, ''It's gone from difficult algebra to complicated calculus.''
The neighborhood's fear, aside from parts of Wrigleyville looking like Times Square, is a repeat of 2006, when the Cubs expanded the bleachers. To add more outfield seats, the team signed a long-term revenue sharing deal with the owners of the nearby rooftops, which pay the Cubs 17 percent of their gross revenue through 2023. The Cubs were also required to construct a building to the west of the stadium that would include offices and space for the community, but it was never built.
Ricketts has expressed confidence that the existing rooftop contract will not prevent installation of the video board, even though it could affect the views from beyond left field. And as he cries foul against the rooftops, he has invested in one of them.
''The city should be more business friendly, that's a given,'' Miller, the newsletter publisher, said. ''But a lot of people look at the Ricketts family as rubes. There is a sense that they came in from Nebraska, bought the team and didn't understand what they were getting into.''
During the meeting of East Lake View Neighbors, Alderman Tom Tunney, who represents Wrigleyville on the City Council, delivered an impassioned speech about Wrigley's plight, and his own. In negotiations between the city and Cubs, Tunney described his position as ''between a rock and a hard place,'' with Emanuel aggressively pushing economic development and constituents concerned about parking, crowd control and safety.
Tunney says he worries his ward will not receive fair value in a final deal. He said that a continued concern was that in lieu of a direct public subsidy to the Cubs' owners, the community would, in effect, end up paying for the renovation -- from the additional sidewalk and street real estate given over to the Cubs to the air rights for increased advertising.
''We don't want to compromise the quality of life for our neighborhood,'' he said.
At an announcement last week for a new downtown development and basketball arena for DePaul University, Emanuel was asked about Wrigley Field.
''Mr. Ricketts is going to put his resources into revitalizing it, appropriately, and we're going to let him do that and help him,'' he replied.
As the fight for their stadium drags on, the Cubs remain a work in progress. On the heels of a 101-loss season, the team is under .500 and far behind the National League Central leaders.
Asked at a news conference whether a better team (the Cubs are 207-279 over the last three full seasons, and 18-24 this year) could make stadium negotiations easier, Ricketts said no. He then insisted that he was not frustrated by the slow progress on and off the field.
''We've just been working through the process,'' he said. ''We're anxious to get it behind us. It's been maybe a little longer and more three-dimensional than I initially anticipated.''
The Cubs remain hopeful that the proposal submitted this month will clear the necessary committees and be passed by the City Council in July. That would allow the team to begin construction this off-season, barring a legal challenge from the rooftops.
''You have to be an optimist to buy the Cubs in the first place, right?'' Quigley said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a tense atmosphere, Tom Ricketts, the Cubs' chairman, had threatened to move the team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BEATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); POLITICS (75%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



602 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: All the Lonely People

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
OVER the last decade, the United States has become a less violent country in every way save one. As Americans commit fewer and fewer crimes against other people's lives and property, they have become more likely to inflict fatal violence on themselves.
In the 1990s, the suicide rate dipped with the crime rate. But since 2000, it has risen, and jumped particularly sharply among the middle-aged. The suicide rate for Americans 35 to 54 increased nearly 30 percent between 1999 and 2010; for men in their 50s, it rose nearly 50 percent. More Americans now die of suicide than in car accidents, and gun suicides are almost twice as common as gun homicides. 
This trend is striking without necessarily being surprising. As the University of Virginia sociologist Brad Wilcox pointed out recently, there's a strong link between suicide and weakened social ties: people -- and especially men -- become more likely to kill themselves ''when they get disconnected from society's core institutions (e.g., marriage, religion) or when their economic prospects take a dive (e.g., unemployment).'' That's exactly what we've seen happen lately among the middle-aged male population, whose suicide rates have climbed the fastest: a retreat from family obligations, from civic and religious participation, and from full-time paying work.
The hard question facing 21st-century America is whether this retreat from community can reverse itself, or whether an aging society dealing with structural unemployment and declining birth and marriage rates is simply destined to leave more people disconnected, anxious and alone.
Right now, the pessimistic scenario seems more plausible. In an essay for The New Republic about the consequences of loneliness for public health, Judith Shulevitz reports that one in three Americans over 45 identifies as chronically lonely, up from just one in five a decade ago. ''With baby boomers reaching retirement age at a rate of 10,000 a day,'' she notes, ''the number of lonely Americans will surely spike.''
There are public and private ways to manage this loneliness epidemic -- through social workers, therapists, even pets. And the Internet, of course, promises endless forms of virtual community to replace or supplement the real.
But all of these alternatives seem destined to leave certain basic human yearnings unaddressed.
For many people, the strongest forms of community are still the traditional ones -- the kind forged by shared genes, shared memory, shared geography. And neither Facebook nor a life coach nor a well-meaning bureaucracy is likely to compensate for these forms' attenuation and decline.
This point is illustrated, richly, in one of the best books of the spring, Rod Dreher's memoir, ''The Little Way of Ruthie Leming,'' an account of his sister's death from cancer at the age of 42. A journalist and author, Dreher had left their small Louisiana hometown behind decades before and never imagined coming back. But watching how the rural community rallied around his sister in her crisis, and how being rooted in a specific place carried her family through its drawn-out agony, inspired him to reconsider, and return.
What makes ''The Little Way'' such an illuminating book, though, is that it doesn't just uncritically celebrate the form of community that its author rediscovered in his hometown. It also explains why he left in the first place: because being a bookish kid made him a target for bullying, because his relationship with his father was oppressive, because he wasn't as comfortable as his sister in a world of traditions, obligations, rules. Because community can imprison as well as sustain, and sometimes it needs to be escaped in order to be appreciated.
In today's society, that escape is easier than ever before. And that's a great gift to many people: if you don't have much in common with your relatives and neighbors, if you're gay or a genius (or both), if you're simply restless and footloose, the world can feel much less lonely than it would have in the past. Our society is often kinder to differences and eccentricities than past eras, and our economy rewards extraordinary talent more richly than ever before.
The problem is that as it's grown easier to be remarkable and unusual, it's arguably grown harder to be ordinary. To be the kind of person who doesn't want to write his own life script, or invent her own idiosyncratic career path. To enjoy the stability and comfort of inherited obligations and expectations, rather than constantly having to strike out on your own. To follow a ''little way'' rather than a path of great ambition. To be more like Ruthie Leming than her brother.
Too often, and probably increasingly, not enough Americans will have what the Lemings had -- a place that knew them intimately, a community to lean on, a strong network in a time of trial.
And absent such blessings, it's all too understandable that some people enduring suffering and loneliness would end up looking not for help or support, but for a way to end it all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (93%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); HOMICIDE (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (77%); AGING TRENDS (76%); MARRIAGE (72%); AGING (71%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); RETIREMENT AGE (66%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); BOOK REVIEWS (64%); LIFE COACHING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



603 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Carol Duh, Terence Leong

 BODY:
Carol Jiarou Duh and Terence Yuwen Leong were married Saturday at the Central Park Conservatory Garden in New York. Monica Weiss, an officiant of the American Ethical Union, officiated, with Joan Javier-Duval, a candidate for ministry with the Universal Unitarian Church, assisting. 
Ms. Duh-Leong, 28, expects to receive a master's in public policy from Princeton this month. In July, she is to return to medical school at Vanderbilt, where she will be a fourth-year student. She is on the board of Doctors for America, a nonprofit organization in Washington of physicians and medical students who support health care reform. She graduated from Yale.
She is the daughter of Hsinli Jian Duh and John J. Duh of Flemington, N.J. The bride's father is a senior manager for product development at Texas Instruments in Allentown, Pa. Her mother is an unemployment insurance technician, resolving online-payment problems, for the New Jersey Department of Labor and Workforce Development in Trenton.
Mr. Leong, also 28, is an associate in the New York office of the law firm Kirkland & Ellis. He graduated from Dartmouth and received a law degree from Northwestern.
He is the son of Kai-Jen Cheng and Dr. Wing-Yin Leong of Arcadia, Calif. His mother is a data systems coordinator for the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health in Los Angeles. His father is a pediatrician in private practice in Arcadia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (87%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (52%)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (69%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



604 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Hollande Signs French Gay Marriage Law

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
PARIS -- The rush toward France's first same-sex marriage officially began Saturday morning, after President François Hollande signed the country's ''marriage for all'' act into law.
The mayor of the southern city of Montpellier, sometimes called ''the French San Francisco,'' intends to officiate at the first gay wedding, which is likely to be no sooner than May 29, because by French law an application for a marriage must be filed at City Hall 10 days before the ceremony itself.
''Love has won out over hate,'' the mayor, Hélène Mandroux, a Socialist like Mr. Hollande, said Saturday. She has been pressing for a gay marriage law since 2009, while voicing concerns that the first such wedding could attract violent protests along with the inevitable and engineered publicity. 
The government's spokeswoman and minister for the rights of women, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, intends to attend.
One couple seeking to be the first to wed under the new law is Vincent Autin, 40, the president of Lesbian and Gay Pride Montpellier, and his partner of seven years, Bruno, 30. Bruno prefers not to provide his surname because he works for the state, though the couple has been featured on television, in newspapers and magazines.
France is the 14th country to legalize gay marriage. In the United States, Washington, D.C., and 12 states have legalized same-sex marriage.
For Mr. Hollande, who is riding low in the opinion polls, the passage of the law over considerable public opposition was a significant victory, given his campaign promise to legalize gay marriage within the first year of his administration (Saturday was within days of his May 15 anniversary in office).
But considering the opposition and significant economic problems in France, now in a triple-dip recession, Mr. Hollande also wants to move on to other important and controversial changes in the structure of the French economy, including pension changes and spending cuts.
Mr. Hollande signed the bill a day after the Constitutional Council dismissed a legal challenge by the right-wing opposition. ''I will ensure that the law applies across the whole territory, in full, and I will not accept any disruption of these marriages,'' he said.
Gay rights advocates praised the law, while a watchdog group, SOS Homophobie, said that France ''has taken a great step forward today, although it is regrettable that it was taken in a climate of bad faith and homophobic violence.''
Protests against the law, led by religious leaders and conservative groups, drew hundreds of thousands of people at their height, with scattered violence on the margins. Opponents of the measures have vowed to fight on, having already called another protest for May 26. There was a small protest Friday night near the historic Pantheon, in the Latin Quarter.
The law allows all married couples to adopt children. It does not provide state aid to help same-sex couples procreate, however.
The leader of the center-right Union for a Popular Movement, Jean-François Copé, told the newspaper Le Monde on Saturday that if the right returned to power (which is hardly imminent), it would ''rewrite'' the measure to clarify the legal descent of children adopted by gay couples and to ''better protect the rights of children.''
He said he disagreed with the law as it stood but respected the decision of the Constitutional Council. ''It is a decision that I regret but that I accept,'' he said Friday.
Mr. Copé said he would attend the May 26 demonstration, which he hoped would broadly include all those disappointed with Mr. Hollande's leadership. He called on them to turn their unhappiness into political commitment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); MARRIAGE (95%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); MARRIAGE LAW (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); RIOTS (68%); RELIGION (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



605 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Sky High and Going Up Fast: Luxury Towers Take New York

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Only 10 floors have been completed in what is intended to be the tallest residential building in the Western Hemisphere -- a slender, 84-story tower on Park Avenue at 56th Street in Manhattan. But the top penthouse is already under contract for $95 million.
Other buyers have snapped up apartments on lower floors for prices that are almost as breathtaking. While their identities are not known, it is likely that many are the rootless superrich: Russian metals barons, Latin American tycoons, Arab sheiks and Asian billionaires. 
Ultraluxury housing and construction is booming across Manhattan, which is now beginning to rival London in popularity with the world's wealthy. The number of condominium buildings in the borough with apartments selling for more than $15 million has risen to 49, up from 33 in 2009, according to CityRealty.
And an additional 20 or so are under construction or in planning.
''There's a great deal of interest in New York, which is seen as relatively cheap compared to other global cities,'' said Yolande Barnes, director of research for Savills, an international real-estate firm.
The growth in high-end projects in Manhattan comes as housing for the working and middle class is in increasingly short supply in the city. These buildings are proving so profitable that they are warping the local real-estate market, making it more difficult to put up more-affordable housing.
Developers have long complained that the prices of land, construction materials and labor are high in New York, even if they are somewhat less expensive than in London or Hong Kong.
But builders of ultraluxury apartments have much more latitude on costs because they are securing spectacular prices for their projects.
As a result, the luxury building trend is driving up the overall cost of land in the city. Several developers maintained that they could build moderately priced housing only if they could get significant tax breaks.
''There are only two markets, ultraluxury and subsidized housing,'' said Rafael Viñoly, the architect who designed the tower on Park Avenue at 56th Street, which is called 432 Park.
The rush to build these towers underscores the gap between rich and poor in New York City, said James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research organization supported by unions. He said that median family income in the city had fallen 8 percent since 2008.
''Manhattan's superluxury condo boom, along with rocketing foreclosures in Queens and record homelessness, present an unobstructed view of accelerating polarization in this recovery,'' Mr. Parrott said.
Still, it is not hard to see why developers are flocking to the high end.
Izak Senbahar, the developer of 56 Leonard, a 60-story tower in TriBeCa where penthouses are going for more than $20 million, signed contracts with buyers for 70 percent of the 140 apartments in just 10 weeks.
''We were all surprised,'' Mr. Senbahar said. ''This was not what we expected. There's a pent-up demand for condos with helicopter views.''
A decade or two ago, luxury buildings were largely confined to Park and Fifth Avenues.
Today, they are rising all over Manhattan -- from One57 and the Baccarat in Midtown Manhattan to 825 First Avenue on the East Side, 150 Charles Street in Greenwich Village and 30 Park Place downtown.
''It's not that location is unimportant,'' said Nancy Packes of Signature Marketing Services. ''But it's now all about bigness, lifestyle and views.''
Determining who is buying many of these properties is a challenge. The superrich often go to great lengths to shield their identities, requiring confidentiality agreements with builders and brokers and using anonymous corporate entities for purchases.
In an interview, the developer of 432 Park, Harry B. Macklowe, said he and his partner, CIM Group, already had contracts for nearly $1 billion worth of apartments at the building. Total sales are expected to surpass $3 billion for a building that will cost about $1.25 billion to complete, he said.
The cheapest apartment in the building, a 351 square-foot studio, costs $1.59 million, according to the offering prospectus.
About half the buyers are foreigners, Mr. Macklowe said.
As with many of these buildings, only about a quarter of the units will be occupied at any one time.
Mr. Macklowe bought and demolished the former Drake Hotel during the real estate boom of 2006 to make way for the tower, before nearly losing the property during the downturn.
Mr. Macklowe said he and his architect, Mr. Viñoly, designed the tower around the ''purest geometric form: the square.'' The tower floors are 93 feet square; each side of the building has six 10-foot-by-10-foot windows.
''This is the building of the 21st century, the way the Empire State Building was the building of the 20th century,'' Mr. Macklowe said.The penthouse has six bedrooms, seven bathrooms and a library. A sculptured bathtub sits in front of a window, offering IMAX-like views of the city. A buyer can also pick up a $3.9 million studio for the housekeeper and a private wine cellar for $300,000.
The building offers residents an indoor-outdoor event space for 350 of their closest friends.
Mr. Macklowe has sought to reach out to potential buyers with a lavish marketing campaign developed by Dbox, an advertising and branding agency. He distributed an oversize glossy magazine around the world that resembles Vogue, with ads from retailers including Armani and Piaget, and essays by writers including Ruth Reichl and Blake Gopnik.
He also produced a short film that places the tower in the context of classic images: the ceiling of the Pantheon, New York movie stills, fashion plates and sculptures by Giacometti.
In one film clip, the aerialist Philippe Petit walks a tightrope that stretches from the Empire State Building to 432 Park with the aid of computer-generated imaging, while Mr. Macklowe emerges from a King Kong outfit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of 432 Park Avenue, an 84-story tower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DBOX FOR CIM GROUP AND MACKLOWE PROPERTIES) (A1)
 Harry B. Macklowe, the developer of 432 Park Avenue, where a penthouse has already been sold for $95 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) GRAPHIC: Amenities in the Sky: An apartment building being constructed at 432 Park Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets, at the site of the former Drake Hotel, will be the tallest residential building in the Western Hemisphere. It will also be one of the most expensive. (GRAPHIC BY DBOX FOR CIM GROUP & MACKLOWE PROPERTIES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TRENDS (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); LIBERALISM (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



606 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: The Health Toll of Immigration

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
BROWNSVILLE, Tex. -- Becoming an American can be bad for your health.
A growing body of mortality research on immigrants has shown that the longer they live in this country, the worse their rates of heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes. And while their American-born children may have more money, they tend to live shorter lives than the parents.
The pattern goes against any notion that moving to America improves every aspect of life. It also demonstrates that at least in terms of health, worries about assimilation for the country's 11 million illegal immigrants are mistaken. In fact, it is happening all too quickly.
''There's something about life in the United States that is not conducive to good health across generations,'' said Robert A. Hummer, a social demographer at the University of Texas at Austin. 
For Hispanics, now the nation's largest immigrant group, the foreign-born live about three years longer than their American-born counterparts, several studies have found.
Why does life in the United States -- despite its sophisticated health care system and high per capita wages -- lead to worse health? New research is showing that the immigrant advantage wears off with the adoption of American behaviors -- smoking, drinking, high-calorie diets and sedentary lifestyles.
Here in Brownsville, a worn border city studded with fast-food restaurants, immigrants say that happens slowly, almost imperceptibly. In America, foods like ham and bread that are not supposed to be sweet are. And children lose their taste for traditional Mexican foods like cactus and beans.
For the recently arrived, the quantity and accessibility of food speaks to the boundless promise of the United States. Esther Angeles remembers being amazed at the size of hamburgers -- as big as dinner plates -- when she first came to the United States from Mexico 15 years ago.
''I thought, this is really a country of opportunity,'' she said. ''Look at the size of the food!''
Fast-food fare not only tasted good, but was also a sign of success, a family treat that new earnings put in reach.
''The crispiness was delicious,'' said Juan Muniz, 62, recalling his first visit to Church's Chicken with his family in the late 1970s. ''I was proud and excited to eat out. I'd tell them: 'Let's go eat. We can afford it now.' ''
For others, supersize deals appealed.
''You work so hard, you want to use your money in a smart way,'' said Aris Ramirez, a community health worker in Brownsville, explaining the thinking. ''So when they hear 'twice the fries for an extra 49 cents,' people think, 'That's economical.' ''
For Ms. Angeles, the excitement of big food eventually wore off, and the frantic pace of the modern American workplace took over. She found herself eating hamburgers more because they were convenient and she was busy in her 78-hour-a-week job as a housekeeper. What is more, she lost control over her daughter's diet because, as a single mother, she was rarely with her at mealtimes.
Robert O. Valdez, a professor of family and community medicine and economics at the University of New Mexico, said, ''All the things we tell people to do from a clinical perspective today -- a lot of fiber and less meat -- were exactly the lifestyle habits that immigrants were normally keeping.''
As early as the 1970s, researchers found that immigrants lived several years longer than American-born whites even though they tended to have less education and lower income, factors usually associated with worse health. That gap has grown since 1980. Less clear, however, was what happened to immigrants and their American-born offspring after a lifetime in the United States.
Evidence is mounting that the second generation does worse. Elizabeth Arias, a demographer at the National Center for Health Statistics, has made exploratory estimates based on data from 2007 to 2009, which show that Hispanic immigrants live 2.9 years longer than American-born Hispanics. The finding, which has not yet been published, is similar to those in earlier studies.
Still, the data does not break down by generation. Ms. Arias cautioned that subsequent generations -- for example, grandchildren and great-grandchildren -- may indeed improve as they rise in socioeconomic status, which in the United States is strongly correlated with better health.
Other research suggests that some of the difference has to do with variation among American-born Hispanics, most of whom still do better than the rest of the American population. Puerto Ricans born in the continental United States, for example, have some of the shortest life spans and even do worse than whites born in the United States, according to research by Professor Hummer, dragging down the numbers for American-born Hispanics. But Mexican immigrant men live about two years longer than Mexican-American men, according to the estimates by Ms. Arias.
Why is a harder question to answer, researchers say. Some point to smoking. Andrew Fenelon, a researcher at Brown University, found in 2011 that half of the three-year life expectancy advantage that Hispanic immigrants had over American-born Hispanics was because they smoked less. The children of immigrants adopt health behaviors typical of Americans in their socioeconomic group. For second-generation Hispanics, the group tends to be lower income, with higher rates of smoking and drinking.
Other researchers say culture contributes. Foreign-born Hispanics are less likely than American-born Hispanics to be raising children alone, and more likely to be part of large kinship networks that insulate them from harsh American economic realities that can lead to poor health.
''I'd love to have my wife at home taking care of the kids and making sure they eat right, but I can't afford to,'' said Camilo Garza, a 34-year-old plumber and maintenance worker whose grandfather immigrated from Mexico. ''It costs money to live in the land of the free. It means both parents have to work.''
As a result, his family eats out almost every night, leaving his dining table abandoned.
''It's a decoration,'' said Mr. Garza, who is overweight and a smoker. ''It's a place where we set groceries before sticking them in the refrigerator.''
The lifestyle takes its toll. The county in which Brownsville is situated, Cameron, has some of the highest rates of obesity and diabetes in the country. The numbers are made worse by a lack of physical activity, including walking. Immigrants said they felt so conspicuous during early attempts to walk along the shoulder of the roads that they feared people would suspect they were here illegally. Ms. Angeles recalled that strolling to a dollar store provoked so many stares that she felt like ''a bean in rice.''
''In Mexico, we ate healthily and didn't even know it,'' said Ms. Angeles, who has since developed diabetes. ''Here, we know the food we eat is bad for us. We feel guilty. But we eat it anyway.''
Still, immigrants have better health outcomes than the American-born. A 2006 analysis by Gopal K. Singh, a researcher at the Department of Health and Human Services, and Robert A. Hiatt, a professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of California, San Francisco, found that immigrants had at least a 20 percent lower overall cancer mortality rate than their American-born counterparts.
Mortality rates from heart disease were about 16 percent lower, for kidney disease 18 percent lower, and for liver cirrhosis 24 percent lower.
''When my daughter was born, my doctor told me that if I wanted to see her 15th birthday I needed to lose the weight,'' said Gerry Ortiz, 37, a first-generation Mexican-American in Brownsville. He managed to lose 75 pounds, motivated in part by his grandfather, a farmer in rural Mexico who at 93 still rides his bicycle every day. He stares down at the family from a black-and-white photograph hanging in Mr. Ortiz's living room. Four of the family's six siblings are obese and have diabetes.
And health habits in Mexico are starting to look a lot like those in the United States. Researchers are beginning to wonder how long better numbers for the foreign-born will last. Up to 40 percent of the diet of rural Mexicans now comes from packaged foods, according to Professor Valdez.
''We are seeing a huge shift away from traditional diets,'' he said. ''People are no longer growing what they are eating. They are increasingly going to the market, and that market is changing.''
Joseph B. McCormick, the regional dean of the University of Texas School of Public Health in Brownsville, said, ''The U.S. culture has crept across the border.''
Perhaps more immediate is the declining state of Hispanic health in the United States. Nearly twice as many Hispanic adults as non-Hispanic white adults have diabetes that has been diagnosed, a rate that researchers now say may have a genetic component, particularly in those whose ancestry is Amerindian from Central and South America, Dr. McCormick said.
Hispanic adults are also 14 percent more likely to be obese, according to 2010 data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The rate is even higher for Hispanic children, who are 51 percent more likely to be obese than non-Hispanic white children.
''We have a time bomb that's going to go off,'' said Dr. Amelie G. Ramirez, a professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio. ''Obesity rates are increasing. Diabetes is exploding. The cultural protection Hispanics had is being eroded.''
But at least for now, the older generation is still enjoying its advantage. In the De Angeles snack bar, a favorite meeting place for elderly Brownsvillians, one regular who is 101 still walks across the bridge to Mexico. Maria De La Cruz, a 73-year-old who immigrated to the United States in her 40s, says her secret is raw garlic, cooked cactus and exercise, all habits she acquired from her father, a tailor who died at 98.
''He had very pretty legs, like mine,'' she said, laughing. ''You want to see them?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Esther Angeles, 41, with her daughter, Johanna Marisol Gomez, 7. Ms. Angeles has developed diabetes since coming to the United States and struggles to see that her daughter eats healthfully. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. MICHAEL SHORT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); SMOKING (73%); DIABETES (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%); HYPERTENSION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); DIETING (70%); FAST FOOD (69%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (69%); RESTAURANTS (65%)

COMPANY: CHURCH'S CHICKEN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



607 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: A Prison Site's Future Stirs Up the Ghosts Of Its Notorious Past

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS DALBY

 BODY:
MAZE, Northern Ireland -- On a quiet country road south of Belfast, only the sudden appearance of a watchtower and portions of walls offer any hint of what was once Europe's most notorious prison. After the last inmates walked out the gates in 2000, the bulldozers moved in, leaving little of the top security fortress intact.
The road signs and the buildings of the old Maze prison have proved far easier to erase than the vivid memories of the events that took place here, particularly the 1981 hunger strike in which Bobby Sands, an Irish Republican Army leader convicted of a firearms charge, and nine of his comrades died in pursuit of the right to be treated as political prisoners rather than criminals.
Now, 15 years after the Good Friday peace accord paved the way for the controversial early release of hundreds of paramilitary prisoners -- pro-British unionists as well as republicans opposed to British control over Northern Ireland -- the site of the old prison has once again become a vortex of political discord. 
After more than a decade of indecision, the power-sharing local government recently agreed to build a center devoted to the study of peace and conflict resolution on part of the old prison site, along with an industrial park for high-tech companies.
The government commissioned Daniel Libeskind, the architect best known for his work at the ground zero site in Manhattan and the Jewish Museum in Berlin, to design the center to reflect the complexities of the conflict, known as the Troubles, that claimed more than 3,000 lives over 30 years.
But instead of being embraced as a powerful symbol of reconciliation and a shared future, the proposed peace center has already become mired in the continuing dispute between unionists and republicans over how the story of the Troubles will be told.
The prototype designs Mr. Libeskind released this month have been eclipsed by the controversy surrounding the site itself, particularly the single remaining H-shaped cellblock containing the small hospital where the hunger strikers spent their last days.
Although the cellblock will not be part of the new center, some pro-British unionists contend that the site will become a ''shrine to terrorism.''
''This is the most toxic and divisive site that you could possibly choose for such a building,'' said the leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, Mike Nesbitt. ''It is clear there will be an undue focus on the prisoners rather than their innocent victims.''
Other unionists who have supported the project in the local government assembly have dismissed such views as ''scaremongering rubbish.''
''The idea that representatives like myself who put on a uniform to fight I.R.A. terrorism and who walked behind the coffins of comrades and family members murdered by the I.R.A. would now countenance a shrine to the I.R.A. is such a nonsense that it says more about the motivation of those who allege it than it does about us,'' said Jeffrey Donaldson, an elected representative of a rival unionist party.
One former hunger striker who supports the peace center, Pat Sheehan, 55, contends that its opponents are guilty of overstating the symbolic importance of the site to republicans.
''The people who died are not in the walls or floors of the H-blocks,'' he said. ''They are alive and well in the hearts and thoughts of another generation who have been inspired by their sacrifice.''
The election of Mr. Sands to the British Parliament weeks before he died bestowed a populist legitimacy on the I.R.A. campaign and eventually propelled Sinn Fein, the I.R.A.'s political wing, to power in the local assembly.
''His victory exposed the lie that the hunger strikers -- and by extension the I.R.A. and the whole republican movement -- had no popular support,'' the Sinn Fein president, Gerry Adams, said of Mr. Sands.
Mr. Sheehan went 55 days without food and would probably have been next to die had the protest not collapsed under pressure from the prisoners' families. At the time, his doctors told him he might not survive anyway because of the damage his long fast caused to his liver. But he recovered and is now a Sinn Fein representative in the local Parliament.
In a recent interview, Mr. Sheehan recalled his decision as a 23-year-old to volunteer for the hunger strike.
''The British saw us as the soft underbelly and believed if they could break us it would be a crushing blow to the I.R.A. struggle,'' he said. ''Bobby Sands believed he was going to die; those of us who went on hunger strike all believed we were going to die, and you had to have total tunnel vision to cope with that decision -- you can't let anything impinge.''
Another former hunger striker, Gerard Hodgkins, 54, spent nearly half his adult life behind bars at Maze and described the fast as the only leverage available to the prisoners. In his small west Belfast apartment, reminders of his prison days are all around, including images of the 10 men, their faces frozen in perpetual youth, on every wall.
''I figured, what more can they do to us?'' Mr. Hodgkins recalled. ''We had been tortured; we lived in almost total isolation from the outside world in a brutal regime; we wore only blankets and were covered in our own filth in freezing cells. Something had to give, and our choices were very limited.''
Since the Good Friday agreement of 1998, a new industry has sprung up in Belfast as thousands of visitors now embark on guided ''terror tours'' around the notorious spots where atrocities took place, taking in the peace walls and the vivid murals commemorating the main events.
After Mr. Libeskind's center opens in 2015, the 15-mile trip to Maze is likely to be included as an evocative finale to the tours.
The body organized to see the project through, the Maze Long Kesh Development Corporation, is eager to play down the history of the prison, pointing out that the site has a long and varied past. It was once a Royal Air Force base and then a racetrack.
The corporation's chairman, Terence Brannigan, has described the redevelopment plans, and the industrial park's promise of 5,000 jobs for a moribund economy, as ''an opportunity we simply cannot afford to ignore.''
''We have already had significant international interest shown in developing the site, and we anticipate that global investors will be excited about what is an unprecedented development opportunity,'' Mr. Brannigan said.
But for most people, the real attraction will not be the industrial park intended to lure high-tech industries, but the chance to glimpse the ghosts of a troubled past.
In a statement last month, Mr. Libeskind said, ''It is truly meaningful to build a hope-filled common ground, to tell individual stories and to do so at Maze Long Kesh.''
Critics are dismissing such sentiments as wishful thinking.
''When a group of Irish-Americans turn up with flowers, who will create an international incident by telling them they can't lay them there?'' Mr. Nesbitt said. ''People make shrines, and I guarantee you that whatever anyone says, this place will become a shrine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pat Sheehan, left, and Gerard Hodgkins were among Irish Republican Army members who took part in a 1981 hunger strike at Maze prison, top in 1979, in Northern Ireland. A center for the study of peace and conflict resolution is planned for the site. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAULO NUNES dos SANTOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); STRIKES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (54%) NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



608 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; ALEXANDRA MCCULLAGH, RILEY NEWMAN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: A Scientist and the Value of Meddling

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Alexandra Buck McCullagh and Riley Sutthoff Newman were married Saturday at Grace Cathedral in San Francisco. The Rev. Jude A. Harmon, an Episcopal priest and a minor canon at the cathedral, performed the ceremony.
The bride, 25, is a dancer in the corps de ballet of the San Francisco Ballet. She is pursuing a bachelor's degree in performing arts through a program for dance professionals offered by St. Mary's College in Moraga, Calif.
She is a daughter of Nanci Buck McCullagh and George P. McCullagh of San Rafael, Calif. 
The groom, 30, works in San Francisco as the director of data science at Airbnb, a Web site for short-term home and apartment rentals around the world. He graduated with degrees in international studies and economics from the University of Washington. He also received a Master of Philosophy in economics from the University of Cambridge.
He is a son of Lisa Prince Newman and John S. Newman, also of San Rafael.
Mr. Newman said that he saw Ms. McCullagh for the first time in 2000 when he was a senior in high school and accompanied his parents to a performance of ''The Nutcracker'' at the Marin County Civic Center in San Rafael. His sister, Maria, and Ms. McCullagh were students at the Marin Ballet school and were in the production. Year after year he dutifully returned to see ''The Nutcracker.''
''She was always dancing the lead roles and was incredibly athletic,'' he said of Ms. McCullagh. ''She's an incredible jumper. She would leap across the stage and she had the biggest smile.''
In the winter of 2006, while Mr. Newman was at Cambridge, his parents spotted Ms. McCullagh in the corps de ballet when they went to see the San Francisco Ballet. They then spoke to her when she came out to see her parents afterward. ''You should fly home and bring this girl roses after every one of her shows until she goes out with you,'' Mr. Newman remembered his father telling him on Skype. His father also told him he was convinced he had met his son's future wife. Mr. Newman laughed it off.
In the summer of 2008, a year after Mr. Newman graduated from Cambridge and was living in San Francisco, his mother, by then on the board of the Marin Ballet school, invited him and Ms. McCullagh to a school benefit. She showed up with a boyfriend, another dancer, whom his father furtively invited for a drink at the bar to give his son some time to talk with Ms. McCullagh.
Mr. Newman became Ms. McCullagh's friend on Facebook, but that was it. In spring of 2010, when he and his mother were on the way to see the San Francisco Ballet one evening, they saw Ms. McCullagh on the street rushing to a performance. With his mother's encouragement, he caught up with her at a stoplight. ''She was nice and smiling, her perfect smile,'' he said, and the next day he was surprised to find a Facebook message from her. He then asked her out.
A couple of days later, they had dinner at an Italian restaurant in North Beach.
''It felt like I was meeting an old friend,'' she said, adding with a laugh, ''for a ballet dancer to end up with a data scientist at a tech company, sometimes it requires a little bit of meddling.'' ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexandra Buck McCullagh Riley Sutthoff Newman (PHOTOGRAPH BY MURRAY BOGNOVITZ) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); DANCE (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



609 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: China Tries to Improve Image In a Changing Myanmar

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and BREE FENG; Wai Moe contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MADAY ISLAND, Myanmar -- The pipelines are finished. The oil storage tanks gleam in the tropical sun. The deep-sea port set in jade-colored waters awaits the first ships bearing crude from the Middle East.
China's ambition of transporting energy through the Indian Ocean and across the mountains of Myanmar seems close to fulfillment. Natural gas is scheduled to start flowing in July from wells deep in the Bay of Bengal through a 500-mile pipeline. Oil will run in a parallel pipe at the end of the year.
But for China, the cost of the pipelines has been far greater than the several billion dollars that the China National Petroleum Corporation, China's energy giant, has spent on construction. With its projects challenged more than ever by activists energized by Myanmar's democratic opening, China has been trying to repair its tarnished reputation among residents here, and in the country at large.
Farmers and fishermen in this remote coastal region -- who made little headway while objecting to lost lands and diminished catches under Myanmar's repressive military junta -- are winning some concessions. In central Myanmar, monks have joined with ancestral landholders to stop a Chinese-led conglomerate from leveling a fabled mountain embedded with copper. 
And last week, in a new ominous sign for the Chinese, guerrillas of the Shan State Army attacked a compound belonging to the Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise, a partner with the Chinese oil company, not far from the pipeline and close to China's border.
In response to the broad opposition, Beijing has ordered secretive state-owned Chinese companies to do something they have rarely done before: publicly embrace Western-style corporate social responsibility practices and act humbly toward the people who live near their vaunted projects.
The grass-roots protests against Chinese projects disturb Beijing because they come amid a scramble for influence in Myanmar between China and the United States.
Official visits give a glimpse of the diplomatic jockeying. President Thein Sein of Myanmar, who heads the quasi-civilian government, will visit the White House on Monday in what will be the first encounter in Washington between an American president and a leader of the country formerly known as Burma, since 1966.
A member of the military junta that China backed for decades, Mr. Thein Sein met President Obama in November during what was the first visit by a sitting American president to Myanmar. Mr. Thein Sein has visited China twice in the past six months. The leader of the opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, was at the White House earlier this year and is expected in Beijing soon.
''It is in China's self interest to think about the impact of their investments,'' said Thant Myint-U, a Myanmar historian and author of ''Where China Meets India: Burma and the New Crossroads of Asia.'' ''In the long term, it is difficult to see a Myanmar where China is not important. But there is a chance that China will no longer be the dominant actor in Myanmar, and that is worrying for some people in China.''
That concern has prompted Chinese officials, worried about losing Myanmar to the Americans, to push back. When a veteran Chinese diplomat, Wang Yingfan, was appointed several months ago as special envoy to Myanmar, he immediately flew there and spoke about the social obligations of Chinese state-run corporations.
And Gao Mingbo, the head of the political section at the Chinese Embassy in Yangon, said: ''The companies must retain the support of the local communities. That has been the consistent message of the embassy: to be open, to be engaged.''
He created the embassy's Facebook page; although Facebook is blocked in China, it is a tool that Chinese officials in Yangon, Myanmar's commercial capital and main city, are using to reach citizens.
''If you don't walk the walk and just talk the talk, you won't win the hearts and minds of the local people,'' Mr. Gao said.
Whether China's outreach efforts will quell anti-China protests is an open question.
After years in exile in Thailand, the leadership of activist organizations like the Shwe Gas Movement has now regrouped at home, its ground forces well trained in tactics of persuasion and protest. The group has pledged to continue to press for higher compensation for land taken for the pipelines, and to push for better-paying jobs along the pipelines' route. These are demands similar to those made by nongovernmental groups in China but given short shrift by Chinese authorities.
Hundreds of miles east of the pipeline, the Wanbao Mining Corporation, a subsidiary of China's state-owned arms maker, Norinco, is collaborating with Myanmar Economic Holdings Ltd. to build a vast new pit for the mining of copper, a project that calls for the acquisition of the lands of 26 villages at the base of Letpadaung mountain.
After violent protests against the mine last November, during which human rights groups say the police used white phosphorous smoke grenades, the government established an inquiry led by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi.
To the relief of Wanbao, the inquiry ruled that the company could continue to expand, and Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, anxious not to alienate China, urged the farmers to cooperate with the project. Her inquiry ordered the company to pay market prices for farmers' land, and compensation for three years of crops.
The report said that the company must conduct an environmental impact study but mentioned nothing about enforcing the results.
Passions are high among the farmers near the mine, many of whom have been trained by former student activists known as the 88 Generation Group. At the village of Wat Mie, a 27-year-old woman, San San Hla, recently sat on the dusty orange earth sorting watercress leaves, plucking the good ones and discarding the others in preparation for selling at the market.
In the distance, the tin roofs of new houses built by the mining company for farmers who agreed to sell their land glinted in the setting sun. Ms. Hla said there was no way she could be persuaded to move into the company-provided compound.
''I'm not afraid of the mining company,'' said Ms. Hla, who was arrested during the protest last year. ''I won't move, because I like this farming life.'' She will ignore Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's pleas for cooperation with the Chinese company, she said.
Immediately after the release of the inquiry's results, Wanbao appointed a public relations officer, Aung Zawlin, who proudly showed visitors his PowerPoint presentation outlining plans for new schools, libraries and upgraded roads around the mine.
China National Petroleum Corporation's public relations team recently released a 42-page document outlining community outreach, which the company says includes $20 million worth of schools, clinics and other projects. Many of the company structures appear sturdier than the run-down government facilities in the villages along the pipeline. But villagers complain of no money for teachers.
Leading the opposition to the petroleum corporation is Wong Aung, the international coordinator of the Shwe Gas Movement, who was born in Rakhine State, an area that encompasses Maday Island, where the gas and oil pipelines begin their journey. ''The exiles were encouraged to come back to put more pressure on the Chinese companies,'' said Mr. Wong, who is running workshops for villagers on how to organize.
The fact that the pipeline will provide power to Yunnan Province, in the far southwest of China, but leave Rakhine still largely in the dark galls the villagers, who use wood for cooking and candles for light.
As the finishing touches were being made to the oil storage tanks, several hundred men and women from tiny Piyin Village in the center of Maday Island protested last month, demanding additional compensation for their lands.
The company agreed to more money for land, new roads and extra electricity.
Still, the resentment remains. Maung Maung Gyi, 52, a physics teacher in nearby Kyaukphyu, said: ''The Chinese come here for their own benefit and then leave us with only small things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: villagers in Se Tae, Myanmar, spoke against a project by China's Wanbao Mining Corporation at the base of Letpadaung mountain
a man stood in one of the houses Wanbao has built for farmers who agreed to sell their land
 and new oil storage tanks on Maday Island built by the China National Petroleum Corporation, which also donated a school in the area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: China is working to transport oil and natural gas through the mountains of Myanmar. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); HISTORY (60%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (70%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (70%)

PERSON: THEIN SEIN (78%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); MYANMAR (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



610 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: How Is My Beach?

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON, LISA W. FODERARO and SARAH MASLIN NIR; Robert Davey, Christopher Maag and Tim Stelloh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY
Sandy Hook
Gateway National Recreation Area
A Question of Toilets
On a Saturday in July, Sandy Hook can easily draw 40,000 beachgoers, temporarily turning the bent finger of sand that juts into the Atlantic Ocean south of New York Harbor into one of the largest municipalities in Monmouth County.
And though three miles of the area's popular seven-mile bike path remain closed, Sandy Hook's most persistent problem is its least visible: damage to the park's own sewage treatment plant, said Pete McCarthy, unit coordinator of the Sandy Hook portion of the National Park Service's Gateway National Recreation Area.
The plant was severely flooded in the storm and only recently was brought back online. Sanitary service has returned to the northern end of the park, where the plant is, but the storm also knocked out the pumps that move sewage from bathrooms at each of the beaches to the plant, and those repairs continue. 
As a result, come Memorial Day weekend, three of the six beach centers will have to rely on portable toilets. Mr. McCarthy hopes that by mid-July all six beaches will have working toilets. ''It's a work in progress,'' Mr. McCarthy, visibly weary, said during a recent tour of Sandy Hook.
Eventually, he said, Gateway plans to move parts of the sewage plant to higher ground.
Asbury Park
Opening Statement
It was not the most damaged beach town on the Jersey Shore, not by a long shot. But Asbury Park wasn't spared. Its boardwalk, immortalized by Bruce Springsteen's album ''Greetings From Asbury Park,'' suffered significant damage, with the storm surge raking a miniature golf course, splash park and vintage pinball arcade.
Now, to send a message about the Jersey Shore's comeback, the town is opening its beaches a week early this season, with lifeguards stationed along its somewhat storm-narrowed strip of sand starting this weekend.
''It's a statement that the Jersey Shore is back and open for business,'' said Tom Gilmour, Asbury Park's director of economic development, adding that everything except the miniature golf course had been repaired.
On a recent spring day, a sign on the door of Madame Marie's Temple of Knowledge, the fortune teller's booth Mr. Springsteen sang about in his anthem ''4th of July, Asbury Park (Sandy),'' read: ''Will Be Open Soon Due to Sandy.'' Nearby, graffiti on a wall seemed more in-your-face: ''Yo Sandy ... we'll be back.''
Mantoloking
Reminders of Destruction
For 31 years, Peter Van Sciver's real estate office, a tidy Cape Cod on Ocean Boulevard at the foot of the Mantoloking Bridge, was the town's most prominent property, a place where contractors and summering millionaires read newspapers and discussed something they all cared about: their houses.
Mr. Van Sciver's place remained prominent after Hurricane Sandy, when aerial photographs showed an inlet carving Mantoloking in two. His property sat in the main channel, 10 feet below seawater.
In all, 60 of Mantoloking's 300 homes were destroyed by the storm, and officials estimated that another 200 houses might have to be demolished. Residents were barred from their homes for months after the storm. Despite all that, Mantoloking's beach will open by Memorial Day, though some access ramps will remain blocked by fallen houses, said Chris Nelson, the mayor's special counsel.
Beachgoers will be reminded of the storm's destruction. Though some homes appear untouched, others lurch sideways, or their roofs sit squashed by the road, or their second-floor bathrooms dangle over the beach.
Mr. Van Sciver's property remains scraped flat. It is dry, protected from the ocean by a rust-colored, corrugated sea wall constructed by the Army Corps of Engineers.
''I will rebuild,'' he said. ''It's still the most visible spot in town.''
Ocean Grove
Appealing for Money
Perhaps the clearest sign that Ocean Grove is not your average Jersey beach town is the giant wooden cross that rises from its dunes. On a recent afternoon, a herring gull perched on top, huddled against the ocean breeze.
The cross is a reminder of Ocean Grove's history as a Methodist retreat, founded in the 1860s, when the first revival meeting was held. It eventually became a permanent Methodist community, part of Neptune Township. The faithful still flock to the crisp white tents that serve as summer residences, attending services in the Great Auditorium and Tabernacle. There is even an open-air pavilion on the boardwalk for oceanfront worship.
But that boardwalk, which was severely damaged during Sandy, faces an uncertain future. The Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association, the nonprofit organization that owns and operates the boardwalk and the beachfront, estimates that repairs to both will total $3 million. The Federal Emergency Management Agency denied its application for financing, citing its private, nonprofit status.
The association is appealing and has enlisted the support of local and state politicians. It has also begun a fund-raising campaign. But some residents are growing impatient. ''All of the other towns are moving ahead with FEMA funding and we don't have that,'' said Matt McGovern, 50. ''It's exceedingly frustrating.''
Sea Bright
Clubs to Rise Again
Sea Bright, a skinny barrier beach flanked by the Atlantic Ocean and the Shrewsbury River, has more than a half-dozen private beach clubs -- the most of any town along the Jersey Shore. With names like Ship Ahoy and the Sands, the clubs are a central focus of summer for residents not only from the borough of Sea Bright, but also from inland towns like Rumson, Fair Haven and Little Silver. Generations of teenagers have come of age at the clubs.
A few club buildings were washed away entirely or damaged beyond repair. But every owner has vowed to rebuild, borough officials say.
The main building of the oldest establishment, Seabright Beach Club, founded in 1895, survived, but the pool area and other structures were damaged. Three years ago, the Surfrider Beach Club undertook a renovation that incorporated the latest hurricane standards, said James LoBiondo, one of the owners. When the storm hit, the main clubhouse was one of the few buildings spared major damage. To its south, plywood recently covered the newly constructed frame of Chapel Beach Club; to the north, the Sands Beach Club had driven piles to support a new clubhouse. ''The business is here,'' Mr. LoBiondo said. ''It's almost like: if you build it, they will come back again.''
Seaside Heights
Farewell to a Coaster
The old Jet Star roller coaster was never fast. What attracted people was its big drop, where the cars lurched so close to the edge that riders feared falling into the ocean.
''That was the terror of it,'' said Bob Henry, 60, who grew up in northern New Jersey and rode the Jet Star on family vacations to Casino Pier, an amusement park on the beach in Seaside Heights.
The old coaster finally made good on its threat, plunking into the water when Hurricane Sandy washed out the pier beneath it. The sight was so eerie that it became a tourist attraction. Mr. Henry, who now lives nearly 3,000 miles away in San Ramon, Calif., brought his family to see it in early May. The other day, Prince Harry, visiting from Britain, also came by.
In January, a resident climbed the coaster's skeletal remains and erected a flag. He was arrested. Others rowed out to steal chunks of metal as souvenirs, said Guy Lanza, 58, who operates a boardwalk pizza shop.
The beach and boardwalk will be open come Memorial Day, though the Jet Star and four other rides submerged in the water will be gone -- a contractor began removing them on Tuesday.
''Some people said we should keep it in the ocean,'' said Maria Mastoris, Casino Pier's marketing manager. ''It's just too devastating to see.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hurricane Sandy cut a channel, now repaired, from the ocean to the base of the Mantoloking Bridge.
An Asbury Park boardwalk fixture made famous by Bruce Springsteen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP
GRAPHICS (GRAPHICS BY ALICIA DESANTIS
ARCHIE TSE
 TIM WALLACE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); BEACHES (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); WATER PARKS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); GOLF (68%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



611 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: The 1 Percent Are Only Half the Problem

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY NOAH

 BODY:
Most recent discussion about economic inequality in the United States has focused on the top 1 percent of the nation's income distribution, a group whose incomes average $1 million (with a bottom threshold of about $367,000). ''We are the 99 percent,'' declared the Occupy protesters, unexpectedly popularizing research findings by two economists, Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez, that had previously drawn attention mainly from academics. But the gap between the 1 percent and the 99 percent is only half the story.
Granted, it's an important half. Since 1979, the one-percenters have doubled their share of the nation's collective income from about 10 percent to about 20 percent. And between 2009, when the Great Recession ended, and 2011, the one-percenters saw their average income rise by 11 percent even as the 99-percenters saw theirs fall slightly. Some recovery!
This dismal litany invites the conclusion that if we would just put a tight enough choke chain on the 1 percent, then we'd solve the problem of income inequality. But alas, that isn't true, because it wouldn't address the other half of the story: the rise of the educated class. 
Since 1979 the income gap between people with college or graduate degrees and people whose education ended in high school has grown. Broadly speaking, this is a gap between working-class families in the middle 20 percent (with incomes roughly between $39,000 and $62,000) and affluent-to-rich families (say, the top 10 percent, with incomes exceeding $111,000). This skills-based gap is the inequality most Americans see in their everyday lives.
Conservatives don't typically like to talk about income inequality. It stirs up uncomfortable questions about economic fairness. (That's why as a candidate Mitt Romney told a TV interviewer that inequality was best discussed in ''quiet rooms.'') On those rare occasions when conservatives do bring it up, it's the skills-based gap that usually draws their attention, because it offers an opportunity to criticize our government-run system of public education and especially teachers' unions.
Liberals resist talking about the skills-based gap because they don't want to tell the working classes that they're losing ground because they didn't study hard enough. Liberals prefer to focus on the 1 percent-based gap. Conceiving of inequality as something caused by the very richest people has obvious political appeal, especially since (by definition) nearly all of us belong to the 99 percent. There's also a pleasing simplicity to the causes of the growing gap between the 1 and the 99. There are only two, and both are familiar liberal targets: the rise of a deregulated financial sector and the erosion of accountability in compensating top executives outside finance. (The cohort most reflective of these trends is actually the top 0.1 percent, who make $1.6 million or more, but let's not quibble.)
Both halves of the inequality story should command our attention, because both represent a dramatic reversal of economic trends that prevailed in the United States for most of the 20th century. From the 1930s through the 1970s the 1 percent saw its share of national income decline, while the ''college premium'' either fell or followed no clear up-or-down pattern over time.
At least some of the tools to restore these more egalitarian trends shouldn't be divisive ideologically. Liberals and conservatives both recognize the benefits of preschool education, which President Obama has proposed making universally available. I've never met an affluent 4-year-old who wasn't enrolled in preschool, but nationwide about one-third of kids that age aren't.
Another reform both conservatives and liberals have supported -- though at different times -- is withholding federal aid from colleges and universities that can't control tuition increases. Mr. Obama proposed it in his last two State of the Union addresses; House Speaker John A. Boehner was a sponsor of a bill to do the same in 2003.
THERE is also more bipartisan support than you might suppose for restricting some of the Wall Street excesses that enrich the 1 percent. The impetus to do so isn't inequality so much as fear that an out-of-control banking sector will once again create economic crisis and compel Congress to bail out the big banks. Congressional Republicans have been blocking proper implementation of the Dodd-Frank financial reforms, but a growing chorus of conservative voices, including the columnist George F. Will, the former Utah governor Jon M. Huntsman Jr. and Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, favor breaking up the big banks. Senators David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, and Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, have sponsored a bill to require the largest banks to hold more capital reserves, or become smaller.
One reason the left plays down the growing skills-based gap is that it accepts at face value the conservative claim that educational failure is its root cause. But the decline of labor unions is just as important. At one time union membership was highly effective at reducing or eliminating the wage gap between college and high school graduates. That's much less true today. Only about 7 percent of the private-sector labor force is covered by union contracts, about the same proportion as before the New Deal. Six decades ago it was nearly 40 percent.
The decline of labor unions is what connects the skills-based gap to the 1 percent-based gap. Although conservatives often insist that the 1 percent's richesse doesn't come out of the pockets of the 99 percent, that assertion ignores the fact that labor's share of gross domestic product is shrinking while capital's share is growing. Since 1979, except for a brief period during the tech boom of the late 1990s, labor's share of corporate income has fallen. Pension funds have blurred somewhat the venerable distinction between capital and labor. But that's easy to exaggerate, since only about one-sixth of all households own stocks whose value exceeds $7,000. According to the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute, the G.D.P. shift from labor to capital explains fully one-third of the 1 percent's run-up in its share of national income. It couldn't have happened if private-sector unionism had remained strong.
Reviving labor unions is, sadly, anathema to the right; even many mainstream liberals resist the idea. But if economic growth depends on rewarding effort, we should all worry that the middle classes aren't getting pay increases commensurate with the wealth they create for their bosses. Bosses aren't going to fix this problem. That's the job of unions, and finding ways to rebuild them is liberalism's most challenging task. A bipartisan effort to revive the labor movement is hardly likely, but halting inequality's growth will depend, at the very least, on liberals and conservatives better understanding each other's definition of where the problem lies.
Timothy Noah is the author of ''The Great Divergence: America's Growing Inequality Crisis And What We Can Do About It.''
This essay is from The Great Divide, a series on inequality, at nytimes.com/opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); LIBERALISM (68%); CONSERVATISM (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); DEREGULATION (62%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



612 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: So Far, the Battery Charger Is Working in Japan

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
A GENERATION ago, Japan was a colossus on any investing map of the world.
Envious foreigners called its export-driven economy a ''miracle.'' Its real estate and stock markets seemed to defy gravity, and its financiers were so flush with cash that they bought skyscrapers, golf courses and corporate empires far from Japan's shores.
Then the bubble burst. In 1990, Japan began more than 20 years of stagnation and deflation. Invest in Japan? For most foreigners, it was wiser to avoid it. At the end of 1989, the Topix, a k a the Tokyo Stock Price index, reached 2,881. Now it's less than half that.
It's possible, at least, that those lost decades are finally over. Japanese markets have become turbocharged again, and are beginning to move markets worldwide. This year alone, the Topix has risen more than 22 percent in dollar terms, far exceeding the gain of the Dow Jones industrial average and nearly every other major stock market. The yen has weakened sharply, trading at more than 100 to the dollar for the first time in four years. That exchange rate should make many Japanese companies more profitable and more competitive. It may also inject inflation into the Japanese economy, encouraging consumers to spend and companies to invest. 
''What is happening in Japan is revolutionary,'' said Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive of Pimco, one of the world's largest bond managers. ''Nothing they've done since the Second World War comes close in terms of economic experimentation,'' he said.
It's far too soon to judge whether ''Abenomics'' -- the new policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Haruhiko Kuroda, the Bank of Japan governor -- will be successful. But they have already begun to change expectations within Japan and around the world.
Most crucially, there are signs that the policies may be breaking Japan's debilitating spiral of deflation. In April, Mr. Kuroda declared that Japan would achieve an inflation target of 2 percent within two years -- an ambitious goal that he said he would achieve by doubling the country's monetary base.
The central bank, which has already been holding short-term interest rates near zero, is making direct purchases of long-term bonds and other securities. That program of quantitative easing is enormous, Mr. El-Erian said: ''It is much bigger than the Federal Reserve's in the United States, when you consider the size of the two economies.''
Is the new monetary policy working? It hasn't been in place long, and no up-to-date inflation data is yet in hand. The latest government figures show that in March, Japan's consumer price index fell 0.5 percent, annualized, a deflationary reading. But Japan's bond prices imply that expectations for inflation two years from now have already jumped to well above 1.6 percent.
''It's not quantifiable yet, but the psyche of the Japanese consumer may actually be changing,'' said Taizo Ishida, lead manager of the Matthews Japan fund, a stock mutual fund for American investors. ''Anecdotally, you can feel it,'' he said. ''People are beginning to put money into equity mutual funds in Japan, and consumers are buying luxury goods. But we'll have to see where this ends up.''
MR. ABE, who faces elections in July in the upper house of the Diet, Japan's parliament, has not unveiled all the details of his policy, which comprises ''three arrows'': monetary easing, fiscal policy and structural reform. Monetary easing is the only one of the three that is substantially under way. It appears to be largely responsible for the yen's weakening and could have a sharp impact.
Forced for many years to adjust to competitive pressures from overseas, Japanese companies said in a government survey last year that they were profitable at an exchange rate of 84 yen to the dollar, a big change from 1986, when they said they needed a rate of 175 yen to the dollar.
The current rate of more than 100 yen to the dollar will make many export-oriented companies much more profitable, said Eileen Dibb, a portfolio manager and Japan specialist at Pyramis Global Advisors, the institutional arm of Fidelity Investments. Her portfolios include Toyota and Fuji Heavy Industries, and both should benefit from the yen depreciation, she said. While the cheaper yen could heighten trade frictions, Mr. Abe says he would like Japan to join the negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an Asia-Pacific free trade pact supported by the Obama administration.
Ms. Dibb is bullish on the Japanese stock market, saying it is still quite reasonably priced even after its recent run. In 1988, for example, the Topix traded at a price-to-book ratio of 6.5, compared with only 1.4 today, yet current earnings are attractive and strengthening. For the first time in years, she says, the outlook is extremely positive. ''It's as though Japan has turned the lights back on,'' she said.
Mr. Abe has adopted a stimulative fiscal policy. It may give the economy a short-term boost, but in a speech in April, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned that Japan's fiscal policy ''looks increasingly unsustainable,'' saying its debt-to-G.D.P. ratio is now nearing an extraordinarily high 245 percent.
Japan has some factors in its favor, however, making it quite different from debt-burdened countries like Greece, said M. Campbell Gunn, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Japan fund. Japan's debt is overwhelmingly financed by its own citizens, he noted; it is denominated in its own currency, and Japan runs a steady current-account surplus, all of which insulate it from bond market pressure.
Furthermore, he said, Japan can reduce debt by privatizing or more efficiently operating billions of dollars worth of state-owned assets, like the nation's ports and its postal system, which doubles as a gigantic savings bank. ''Japan now is in some ways like the U.K. before Margaret Thatcher,'' he said. ''There is much that could be done if the government wanted to do it.''
Structural problems, however, are major impediments to economic growth. Japan's population has been aging and declining in size, said Roger Aliaga-Díaz, a senior economist at Vanguard. Unless Japan permits enough immigration to offset this, he said, demographic constraints are likely to trim gross domestic product by 1.3 percentage points a year. ''That's a big hurdle for Japan,'' he said.
Shifts like raising the retirement age and removing impediments to work force participation by women could improve matters, but improvements are likely to be slow in coming, he said.
Still, Japan's markets have awakened, its economy may be reviving, and the flood of yen is certainly flowing into other markets around the world, Mr. El-Erian said. ''This is an ambitious effort,'' he said. But, he added, ''Japan's mounting debt load and difficult structural problems make this program a very high-risk and high-reward one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shinzo Abe, Japan's prime minister, taking a spin on a rice planter. His economic plan has cheered investors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIJI PRESS, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INFLATION (89%); DEFLATION (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); JAPANESE YEN (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (53%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



613 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Climate Warnings, Growing Louder

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The news that atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, the most important global warming gas, have hit 400 parts per million for the first time in millions of years increases the pressure on President Obama to deliver on his pledges to limit this country's greenhouse gas emissions.
America cannot solve a global problem by itself. But as Mr. Obama rightly observed in his inaugural address, the United States, as both major polluter and world leader, has a deep obligation to help shield the international community from rising sea levels, floods, droughts and other devastating consequences of a warming planet. In his State of the Union speech, he promised to take executive action if Congress failed to pass climate legislation. 
Which is just what he will have to do. The prospects for broad-based Congressional action putting a price on carbon emissions are nil. The House is run by people who care little for environmental issues generally, and Senate Republicans who once favored a pricing strategy, like John McCain and Lindsey Graham, have long since slunk away. Meanwhile, Republicans on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee have spent the last two weeks trying to derail Mr. Obama's nominee to run the Environmental Protection Agency -- a moderate named Gina McCarthy. Ms. McCarthy has served two Republican governors (Mitt Romney was one) but is considered suspect by the right wing because she wants to control carbon pollution, which is driving global temperatures upward.
Hence the need for executive action. Yet we are now four months into Mr. Obama's second term, and there is no visible sign of a coherent strategy. One plausible reason is that Mr. Obama has been preoccupied with other issues and that his key players on climate have not been in place. But that excuse disappears if Ms. McCarthy can survive a threatened Senate filibuster; even if she does not, Mr. Obama has sufficient talent in the E.P.A. and the Energy Department and among his science advisers to get started.
As this page has noted, it is possible to adopt a robust climate strategy based largely on executive actions. The most important of these is to invoke the E.P.A.'s authority under the Clean Air Act to limit pollution from stationary industrial sources, chiefly the power plants that account for almost 40 percent of the country's carbon emissions. The agency is reworking a proposed rule to limit emissions from new power plants. A more complex but no less necessary task is to devise rules for existing power plants, which cannot be quickly shuttered without endangering the country's power supply, but which can be made more efficient or phased out over time.
Mr. Obama can also order the E.P.A. to curb the enormous leakage of methane, a potent global warming agent, from gas wells and the pipes that bring natural gas to consumers. This is critical if America's bountiful supplies of cheap natural gas are to become a cleaner bridge from coal to alternative energy sources like wind and solar power.
He can hasten the development of less-polluting alternatives to older-generation refrigerants and other chemicals. He can order the Energy Department to embark on a major program to improve the efficiency of appliances and commercial and residential buildings, which consume a huge chunk of the country's energy supply. And he can ramp up investment in basic research.
All of this will take time, which is why it is important to get started. The most important of Mr. Obama's first-term environmental initiatives -- the historic fuel economy standards that will double the efficiency of America's cars and light trucks -- took more than three years to complete between the time they were proposed and when they were finalized last August. New power plant standards can be expected to take at least as long.
Mr. Obama has a firm grasp of the climate issue, and no one doubts that he cares about it. But as is often the case with this president, the question is whether he will exhibit a sense of urgency to match his intellectual understanding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (85%); METHANE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); FILIBUSTER (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



614 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The Government's Worst Face

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS. 
A writer at large for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THE reported targeting by the Internal Revenue Service of opponents of conservative organizations seeking tax-exempt status has led some to revisit the long history of presidents, or their administrations, using tax regulations to punish enemies. Some have drawn comparisons with the crimes of Watergate, when President Richard M. Nixon loosed the I.R.S. on an array of Democrats (including potential challengers to his re-election in 1972). Another example, parallel to the current episode, came in 1961, when President John F. Kennedy, alarmed by the growing strength of right-wing groups, ''asked the director of audits at the I.R.S. to gather intelligence on organizations receiving tax exemptions,'' as Rick Perlstein wrote in ''Before the Storm,'' his 2001 history of Barry M. Goldwater's 1964 presidential campaign.
There is no evidence as yet that President Obama ordered ideological targeting of this kind, and in his news conference last week he called the abuses, if real, ''contrary to our traditions.'' 
In any event, the impulse to uncover a top-down operation misses a larger point. The conspiracy talk of the moment reflects the broader unease many Americans, left and right, feel not just toward the I.R.S. but toward the federal government and the outsize part it plays in our daily lives. At times it can seem an abstract, distant force, bent on its own aggrandizement, often at the expense of individual citizens.
It is in this light that the report released last week by the Treasury Department's inspector general is best understood. As deplorable as the steps taken by I.R.S. officers seem to have been -- involving, as a Wall Street Journal editorial put it, ''aggressive and burdensome questionnaires as part of the process of applying for tax-exempt status'' -- the report indicates that, whatever motives may have driven the wrongdoers, their modus operandi was not to violate established procedures but to execute them with excessive zeal. Rather than secretly sabotaging the targeted groups, they seem to have ensnared them in dense thickets of red tape. It is a frustration many of us have experienced when dealing with government agencies, above all the I.R.S., which not only takes our money but then also makes us mail the check to an address we need a map to locate.
With its colossal size and tentacular reach, 100,000 employees working in more than 1,000 offices across the country, the I.R.S. is ''the largest law-enforcement agency in the nation,'' a character remarks in David Foster Wallace's satirical novel ''The Pale King,'' a best seller when it was published in 2011.
Largely set in an imagined regional I.R.S. office in Peoria, Ill. -- it could easily stand in for the Cincinnati office where the current abuses occurred -- ''The Pale King'' explores the bewildering minutiae of the tax code and those who enforce it while also capturing the hostility toward the agency that runs through much of American thinking.
AS one character, an I.R.S. officer, explains, ''We're the government, its worst face -- the rapacious creditor, the stern parent.'' The menace comes in the day-to-day workings of a bureaucracy that functions far from view, accountable only to itself. This is an argument conservatives have made for many years, dating back as far as the political theories of James Burnham, whose 1941 book ''The Managerial Revolution'' was an early classic on an emerging new governing class, the ''bureaucratic elite.''
''The firmest representatives of the New Deal are not Roosevelt or the other conspicuous 'New Deal politicians,' '' Mr. Burnham wrote, but the often faceless people who drafted its regulatory policies, the ''younger group of administrators, experts, technicians, bureaucrats who have been finding places throughout the state apparatus.'' It is a description easily applied to the I.R.S. functionaries now under investigation.
It was conservatives who, seizing on this argument, first depicted the I.R.S. as a symbol of the overweening state, acting against the nation's founding principles of ''limited government,'' taxation its blunt instrument of oppression. It is a belief many of today's activists share.
Jenny Beth Martin, an organizer of the Tea Party Patriots, one of the groups that possibly came under special scrutiny by the I.R.S., is also an author of a book, ''Tea Party Patriots: The Second American Revolution,'' that dates America's decline to 1913, the year the 16th Amendment was ratified, authorizing Congress to impose a federal income tax -- an inspiration for the nationwide Tax Day rallies that gave momentum to the Tea Party movement in 2009-10. At the time those protests seemed fresh and, directed at both parties, not especially partisan. But in fact, they echoed the admonitions of conservatives like Goldwater, who asserted in 1960 that ''taxation currently infringes on our freedom,'' and Newt Gingrich, who 25 years later mockingly characterized Bob Dole, then the Senate majority leader, as ''the tax collector for the welfare state.''
And the roots of this equation of ''big government'' and oppressive taxes go back even further, to the 1950s and the beginnings of the modern conservative movement.
One of its first heroes was Gov. J. Bracken Lee, a Utah Republican who was an avowed critic of all forms of federal taxation. Like today's insurgents, he denounced the 16th Amendment, saying it legalized ''theft money'' and subjected citizens to ''the will of the central government.'' In 1956, Lee led the drive for a third-party challenge to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and found a candidate in T. Coleman Andrews, who mounted his campaign with a convert's zeal: he had been Eisenhower's internal revenue commissioner before quitting and running on a platform calling for the repeal of the income tax. Mr. Andrews's supporters included the libertarian economist Murray Rothbard, later a mentor to Ron Paul, who has said both the I.R.S. and the Federal Reserve should be abolished.
In this view, the I.R.S. is by definition an alien and ''rogue'' agency, not to be trusted even when it plays by the rules. A case like the present one, in which those rules have been twisted for what appear to be ideological purposes, is bound to provoke intense indignation, directed not merely at the I.R.S. but at the larger agenda it appears to be serving. As one of Mr. Wallace's I.R.S. agents notes of ''TPs,'' the novel's shorthand for taxpayers, ''They hate the government -- we're just the most convenient incarnation of what they hate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



615 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: What Stock to Buy? Hey, Mom, Don't Ask Me

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard.

 BODY:
OVER the last few weeks, as the stock market has reached new highs, my thoughts have turned to my 85-year-old mother.
''O.K. Mr. Smarty-Pants,'' she often asks me, ''what stock should I buy now?''
She first asked me this question when I was an undergraduate at Princeton, majoring in economics. She asked again when I was a graduate student at M.I.T., earning a Ph.D. in economics. And she has asked it regularly during the last three decades when I have been an economics professor at Harvard. 
Unfortunately, she has never been happy with my answers, which are usually evasive. Nothing in the toolbox of economists makes us good stock pickers.
Yet we economists have written countless studies about the stock market. Here is a summary of what we know:
THE MARKET PROCESSES INFORMATION QUICKLY One prominent theory of the stock market -- the efficient markets hypothesis -- explains how answering my mother's question would be a fool's errand. If I knew anything good about a company, that news would be incorporated into the stock's price before I had the chance to act on it. Unless you have extraordinary insight or inside information, you should presume that no stock is a better buy than any other.
This theory gained public attention in 1973 with the publication of ''A Random Walk Down Wall Street,'' by Burton G. Malkiel, the Princeton economist. He suggested that so-called expert money managers weren't worth their cost and recommended that investors buy low-cost index funds. Most economists I know follow this advice.
PRICE MOVES ARE OFTEN INEXPLICABLE Even if changes in stock prices are unpredictable, as efficient markets theory suggests, we should be able to explain these changes after the fact. That is, we should be able to identify the news that causes stock prices to rise and fall. Sometimes we can, but often we can't.
In 1981, Robert J. Shiller, a regular contributor to this column and an economics professor at Yale, published a paper in The American Economic Review called, ''Do Stock Prices Move Too Much to Be Justified by Subsequent Changes in Dividends?'' He argued that stock prices were too volatile. In particular, they fluctuated much more than a rational valuation of the underlying fundamentals would.
Mr. Shiller's paper prompted a storm of controversy. My reading of the subsequent academic literature is that his conclusions, though not all his techniques, have survived the debate. Stock prices seem to have a life of their own.
Advocates of market rationality now say that stock prices move in response to changing risk premiums, though they can't explain why risk premiums move as they do. Others suggest that the market moves in response to irrational waves of optimism and pessimism, what John Maynard Keynes called the ''animal spirits'' of investors. Either approach is really just an admission of economists' ignorance about what moves the market.
HOLDING STOCKS IS A GOOD BET The large, often inexplicable movements in stock prices might deter someone from holding stocks in the first place. Many Americans, even some with significant financial assets, avoid stocks altogether. But doing so is a mistake, because the risk of holding stocks is amply rewarded.
In 1985, Rajnish Mehra and Edward C. Prescott, both now at Arizona State University, published a paper in the Journal of Monetary Economics called ''The Equity Premium: A Puzzle.'' They pointed out that over a long time span, stocks have earned, on average, about 6 percent more per year than safe assets like Treasury bills. This large premium, they said, is hard to explain with standard economic models. Sure, stocks are risky, so you can never be certain you'll earn the premium, but they are not risky enough to justify such a large expected return.
Since the paper was published, economists have made some limited progress in explaining the equity premium. In any event, the large premium has convinced most of us that stocks should be part of everyone's financial plan. I allocate 60 percent of my financial assets to equities.
Stocks may be an especially good deal today. According to a recent study by two economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, given the low level of interest rates, the equity premium now is the highest it has been in 50 years.
DIVERSIFICATION IS ESSENTIAL Every time a company experiences a catastrophic decline -- consider Enron or Lehman Brothers -- reports emerge about employees who held most of their wealth in company stock. These stories leave economists slapping their heads. If there is one thing we know for sure, it is that sensible financial management requires diversification.
So, if you have more than 5 percent of your assets in any one company, call your broker and sell. Doing otherwise means exposing yourself to extra risk without extra reward.
SMART INVESTORS THINK GLOBALLY One widely documented failure of diversification is what economists call home bias. People tend to invest disproportionately in their home country.
Most economists take a more global perspective. The United States represents a bit under half of the world's stock portfolio. Because Europe, Japan and the emerging markets don't move in lock step with the United States, it makes sense to invest abroad as well.
Which brings me back to my mother's question: If I could pick just one stock for someone to buy, what would it be? I would now suggest something like the Vanguard Total World Stock exchange-traded fund, which started trading in 2008. In one package, you can get low cost and maximal diversification. It may not be as exciting as trying to pick the next Apple or Google, but you'll sleep better at night.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL WIENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); LITERATURE (71%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); INDEX FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



616 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Scandal Involving Gifts and Theft Charges Complicates Politics in Virginia

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Va. -- A celebrated chef. A political donor with a private jet to lend and a product to pitch. The state's top two elected officials.
Virginia is in the grip of an old-fashioned, finger-licking political scandal linking all these figures. There are overlapping plot lines, a cameo by the governor's wife and, in an offstage role portending a possible dark denouement, F.B.I. agents.
The story is unfolding almost daily in court records and aggressive coverage by the Richmond press corps. It is riveting the state's political class even as it distracts the gubernatorial campaign of the attorney general, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, and clouds the ambitions of the governor, Bob McDonnell, who has been mentioned as a Republican presidential contender in 2016.
While not on a par with Washington scandals unfolding around the I.R.S. and other agencies, which are commanding national and presidential attention, Virginia's homegrown drama, now in its seventh week, has more outsize characters and soap opera turns. 
Whether it causes lasting damage to Mr. Cuccinelli, who on Saturday accepted the Republican nomination for governor at his party's convention here, or to Mr. McDonnell depends on whether the details break through voters' general cynicism about politicians. Recent polls have been contradictory about whether support has eroded for either official; a survey conducted from May 8 to 13 by Quinnipiac University showed that 44 percent of Virginia voters saw the revelations as ''just politics.''
In the opening act, Virginians were introduced to Todd Schneider, the former personal chef to the governor and his family, who kept a stash of the first lady's favorite crab-seasoned popcorn in the kitchen of the Executive Mansion.
Mr. Schneider, 52, told law enforcement agents last year that a $15,000 catering bill for the wedding of the McDonnells' middle daughter, a menu that included bruschetta with local tomatoes and Virginia wines, was footed by a political donor.
Although state law requires elected officials to report gifts, Mr. McDonnell did not declare the $15,000, later explaining that it was exempt because it was a gift to his daughter.
Mr. Schneider, who calls himself a whistle-blower in court filings, showed investigators the catering contract signed by Mr. McDonnell, an invoice noting that he put down a deposit and a $15,000 check from the political patron who ultimately bought the food.
That donor, a serial entrepreneur named Jonnie R. Williams Sr., has given more than $120,000 to Mr. McDonnell's campaigns, including nearly $80,000 in corporate jet travel, according to the Virginia Public Access Project, which tracks money in politics.
The McDonnells have returned the attention. Three days before the wedding of their daughter Cailin in June 2011, Maureen McDonnell, the first lady, flew to Florida on Mr. Williams's plane to promote a dietary supplement sold by Mr. Williams. She ''wowed'' investors, one wrote, at a meeting to discuss the supplement, Anatabloc, which is said to have anti-inflammatory properties.
Later that summer, Ms. McDonnell gave a luncheon at the Executive Mansion, a stately Federalist home in pale yellow brick, to officially introduce Anatabloc the week it appeared in stores, speaking to a group of local health care providers.
Enter the F.B.I.
Agents have questioned people who know the McDonnells to determine if there was an improper quid pro quo between Mr. Williams and the governor and first lady to advance Mr. Williams's business. In court documents, Mr. Schneider says he and at least one other Executive Mansion employee were interviewed by agents. A spokeswoman for the Richmond F.B.I. office would neither confirm nor deny the accounts.
Mr. McDonnell, 58, has called Mr. Williams a friend and said he did nothing for his company, Star Scientific, that he would not do to promote any other Virginia business.
''I think it's important that the people of Virginia know that nothing has been done with regard to my relationship with Mr. Williams or his company Star Scientific to give any kind of special benefits to him or his company,'' the governor said on WTOP radio.
Mr. Williams, 57, who until recently paid himself $1 million a year as a chief executive of Star Scientific, which has lost money for a decade, has a history of promoting over-the-counter treatments and a parallel history of running afoul of regulators. Two decades ago he was ordered to pay $300,000 for pumping up a stock with false claims about an anti-wrinkle cream named Lacramore.
In March, Star Scientific, which sells two dietary supplements and two face creams, revealed it was the target of a federal investigation into its stock.
A lawyer for Mr. Williams, Jerry Kilgore, did not respond to requests for comment.
Another friend of Mr. Williams's is Virginia's attorney general, Mr. Cuccinelli. Mr. Cuccinelli has reported $18,000 in gifts from Mr. Williams, including regular vacations at a house on Smith Mountain Lake, near Roanoke, and a catered $1,500 Thanksgiving dinner. He also received a box of Anatabloc.
Mr. Cuccinelli, 44, bought stock in Star Scientific, which at one time was worth more than $20,000, although he failed to disclose his holding as required by law for nearly a year. Last October, he filed an updated statement of economic interest to include the stock, his only substantial investment.
The Cuccinelli campaign declined to answer questions about Mr. Williams and Star Scientific. Chris LaCivita, a strategist for the campaign, has said Mr. Cuccinelli did not realize his stock's value had passed $10,000, the threshold for reporting. Once he did, he corrected the record. He has since sold all of his shares, his campaign has said, the last in mid-April.
While the two men were cementing their friendship after Mr. Cuccinelli's election in 2009, Star Scientific sued Virginia over a $700,000 tax bill. Mr. Cuccinelli, whose office represents the state, resisted pressure from Democrats to recuse himself once the Star Scientific saga made it into the news. Last month, he agreed to appoint an outside counsel in what a spokesman called ''an abundance of caution.''
It is unclear how much damage the scandal is causing. The Quinnipiac poll released last week showed that the governor's approval rating with registered voters fell to a two-year low -- but it hardly crashed -- at 49 percent. The poll showed Mr. Cuccinelli for the first time trailing his Democratic rival, Terry McAuliffe, by five percentage points, but that difference is within the poll's margin of sampling error. An earlier Washington Post poll showed Mr. Cuccinelli ahead of Mr. McAuliffe among likely voters.
One twist that may be worrying Mr. Cuccinelli is that Mr. Schneider, the chef, is to go on trial in October, three weeks before Election Day, which is sure to set off another round of scandal coverage when voters are paying closest attention.
Mr. Schneider is charged with taking food from the Executive Mansion after an investigation that led to his firing. He claims in court filings that he had been told to take the food as part of his compensation.
Presumably hoping to save himself, Mr. Schneider told the authorities last year of what he called ''wrongdoing'' by the governor and the first lady involving Mr. Williams. Nonetheless, Mr. Schneider was indicted by Mr. Cuccinelli's office on March 20, which brought the first public exposure of the convoluted links between the players.
At first, Mr. Cuccinelli denied that he had a conflict in prosecuting Mr. Schneider. But he recently recused himself, and a special prosecutor has taken over. Mr. Schneider's lawyers want the case thrown out. A judge is set to hear arguments in July.
If the case does go to trial -- four embezzlement counts for pilfering food worth more than $200 -- the former Executive Mansion chef could be the person who pays the highest price.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Bob McDonnell, shown in 2010, is considered a potential contender for the Republican nomination for president in 2016. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS)
Todd Schneider, left, was the governor's chef. He says Jonnie R. Williams Sr., right, a businessman and political donor, paid the catering bill for the wedding of Mr. McDonnell's daughter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE MAHONEY/RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
MASAAKI OKADA/RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, Virginia's attorney general, accepted the Republican nomination for governor on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY PAUL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (93%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



617 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Kenneth Waltz, Foreign-Relations Expert, Dies at 88

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Kenneth N. Waltz, a pre-eminent thinker on international relations who was known for his contrarian, debate-provoking ideas, not least his view that stability in the Middle East might be better served if Iran had a nuclear weapon, died on May 12 in Manhattan. He was 88.
The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Columbia University, where Mr. Waltz was a senior research scholar.
Leslie H. Gelb, emeritus president of the Council on Foreign Relations, characterized Mr. Waltz as one of five ''giants'' who shaped the study of international relations as a discrete discipline, the others being Hans Morgenthau, Henry A. Kissinger, Samuel P. Huntington and Zbigniew Brzezinski. 
The field developed in the 1950s, when the experiences of two world wars and the beginning of the cold war drove scholars to try to explain more precisely how nations interacted. The goal was to build a conceptual framework on which international politics could be analyzed, something earlier courses on military and diplomatic history had not offered.
''Without a theory, we're just lost,'' said Robert Jervis, a political science professor at Columbia. ''We just have all these random phenomena we can't make any sense of.''
One of Mr. Waltz's propositions was that wars are not caused simply by human aggression or bad governments but by the anarchic, dog-eat-dog nature of international relations. Each nation-state, he said, will push as far as it can to advance its own self-interests.
He used as an example the collapse of the Soviet Union, which he said freed the United States to become a bully because it no longer had an opponent in its own weight class. In this new ''unipolar'' world, the United States ''abuses its power, singling out poor, weak countries -- that's what we specialize in -- and beating them up,'' he said in 2011 in an oral history interview at the University of California, Berkeley.
''It is sad,'' he continued, ''but this is a typical behavior of powers that are dominant, or used to be dominant in their regions, and now are globally dominant.''
Mr. Walz shook conventional wisdom by regarding the ''bipolar'' nuclear stalemate between the United States and the Soviet Union as one of the most stable balances of power ever -- not the knife-edge of planetary annihilation. His critics, however, saw the failure of the bipolar model in the experience of World War I, in which two rigid, pre-existing alliances clashed with devastating results.
Mr. Waltz countered that the cold war was fundamentally different, because the 20th-century superpowers were so much stronger than their allies that only the superpowers mattered.
Even more, Mr. Waltz endorsed nuclear proliferation as a force for peace. ''The measured spread of nuclear weapons is more to be welcomed than feared,'' he wrote in 1981. He argued that nuclear states had always safeguarded their weapons carefully, and that no nuclear state had ever been involved in a major war. (He said the fighting between nuclear India and nuclear Pakistan in 1999 did not constitute a major war.)
Mr. Waltz's goal was to clarify thinking about international politics by offering a perspective he called ''structural realism,'' or neorealism, in which interactions between nations matter most in fomenting war.
''Even when you disagree, he moves your thinking ahead,'' Mr. Jervis said.
More than his views on particular foreign-policy issues, it was Mr. Waltz's theoretical work that influenced policy makers most, Mr. Jervis said. And yet his most controversial pronouncement was indeed about a specific issue: Iran's getting the bomb.
Writing in Foreign Affairs last year under the title ''Why Iran Should Get the Bomb,'' Mr. Waltz argued that in a region, the Mideast, that had only one nuclear power, Israel, another would be a stabilizing force. Iran, he said, would be unlikely to use the bomb because Iranian leaders, however hateful, were not self-destructive. He pointed to Maoist China as a precedent; even in the midst of the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s and '70s, he said, China assiduously guarded its nuclear arsenal against political radicals.
Critics responded that Iran's Islamic leaders might not be so self-restrained, given their belief that martyrdom wins God's approval; that Iran might share the bomb with terrorists, just as it shares conventional weapons; and that having nuclear protection might encourage Iran to be more provocative in local conflicts involving lesser arms.
''Some have even said that Iran with nuclear weapons would stabilize the Middle East,'' Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said a month after Mr. Waltz's article was published. ''I think people who say this have set a new standard for human stupidity.''
Equally controversial was Mr. Waltz's pronouncement that North Korea, however odious its government, would be ill-served by giving up its nuclear weapons as a means of deterring enemies. Here he pointed to the example of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, who Mr. Waltz argued may have hastened his own destruction by relinquishing his nuclear program in 2003.
Recently, Mr. Gelb arranged a luncheon with Mr. Waltz and Mr. Kissinger, who categorically opposed the idea of Iran having the bomb. ''One rousing argument after another,'' Mr. Gelb recalled.
Kenneth Neal Waltz was born on June 8, 1924, in Ann Arbor, Mich. He served in the Army during World War II and then earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Oberlin College in Ohio. He studied political science as a graduate student at Columbia, and his dissertation was published in 1959 as a book, ''Man, the State, and War: A Theoretical Analysis.'' His ''Theory of International Politics'' (1979) advanced understanding of the concept of a ''bipolar'' world, with two dominant powers. Though he did not invent the concept, he showed how it worked. The book became a standard text. In 1995, Mr. Waltz and the Stanford University scholar Scott D. Sagan published ''The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate,'' which also became popular in international relations courses. They updated and expanded the discussion in subsequent editions.
Mr. Waltz had begun teaching at Columbia in 1950 when, as a member of the Army Reserve, he was called to serve in the Korean War. He returned to Columbia after the war and taught there until 1957. He then taught at a number of colleges and universities, including Swarthmore, Brandeis and the University of California, Berkeley, before returning again to Columbia.
His wife, the former Helen Lindsley, died in 2008. He is survived by two sons, Daniel and Kenneth Jr., and four grandchildren.
Mr. Waltz was the president of the American Political Science Association in 1987 and 1988, and in 1999 received the association's James Madison Award, given once every three years. In 2008, Aberystwyth University in Wales held a conference in his honor titled ''The King of Thought: Theory, the Subject and Waltz.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth N. Waltz (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANE SCHERR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); HISTORY (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WORLD WAR I (69%); PNEUMONIA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



618 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
THE PRICE OF INEQUALITY, by Joseph E. Stiglitz. (Norton, $16.95.) The top 1 percent of Americans control some 40 percent of the nation's wealth. This disparity, Stiglitz argues, isn't the result of uncontrollable technological and social change; it stems from the unrestrained power of well-heeled interests. In this comprehensive counterargument to both neoliberalism and laissez-faire theories, the author, a Nobel laureate and economics professor at Columbia, examines the effects of inequality on the economy, democracy and globalization. 
THE WORLD WITHOUT YOU, by Joshua Henkin. (Vintage Contemporaries, $15.) The contentious family of a war correspondent killed in Iraq gathers a year after his death in Henkin's character-driven novel. Over the course of three days in the Berkshires, the story moves elegantly from one perspective to another.
AMERICAN TAPESTRY: The Story of the Black, White, and Multiracial Ancestors of Michelle Obama, by Rachel L. Swarns. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $16.99.) This is a deeply researched chronicle, by a New York Times reporter, of several generations of Mrs. Obama's family, fascinating in many details: from the men who fought in the Revolutionary and Civil Wars to the mothers and fathers who endured the horrors of slavery and the indignities of Reconstruction and segregation to build a better future for their children.
ABSOLUTION, by Patrick Flanery. (Riverhead, $16.) The history of apartheid torments the South Africans in Flanery's insightful first novel. Sam Leroux has returned from New York to his native Cape Town to interview the irascible aging author Clare Wald. As Clare assembles the sordid details of her revolutionary daughter's disappearance, the complicated bonds between Sam and Clare are slowly revealed.
CITY OF SCOUNDRELS: The Twelve Days of Disaster That Gave Birth to Modern Chicago, by Gary Krist. (Broadway, $14.95.) Filled with cameos and lengthy profiles of Chicagoans famous and infamous, this is a lavishly intricate account of the volatile summer of 1919, when an aviation disaster, a race riot, a transit strike and a sensational child murder roiled the city.
DIRT, by David Vann. (Harper Perennial, $14.99.) Set in a desolate stretch of California's Central Valley in the 1980s, Vann's unsettling yet sharply funny novel follows the self-destruction of its 22-year-old antihero, Galen. A New Age believer who fasts and rereads ''Siddhartha,'' Galen is burdened by his overbearing mother, his spiteful aunt and her oversexed teenage daughter. Pushed to the brink, he discovers how far he will go to attain the transcendence he craves.
DROPPED NAMES: Famous Men and Women as I Knew Them, by Frank Langella. (Harper Perennial, $14.99.) The 65 chapters in this satisfyingly scandalous memoir paint Broadway and Hollywood as teeming with vulgar, neurotic and irresistible company, and Langella as relentlessly affable in the face of nonstop groping by celebrities in far-flung locations.
THE COLDEST NIGHT, by Robert Olmstead. (Algonquin, $14.95.) To escape the wrath of his girlfriend's father, the protagonist of Olmstead's powerful novel joins the Marines in 1950 at age 17, arriving in Korea on the eve of the brutal battle of the Chosin Reservoir.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WRITERS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); RIOTS (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (67%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



619 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Paid to Be Good

BYLINE: By HELEN SCHULMAN. 
Helen Schulman's most recent novel is ''This Beautiful Life.''

 BODY:
THE HUMANITY PROJECTBy Jean Thompson
337 pp. Blue Rider Press. $26.95.
Linnea is a good kid from a home that lies somewhere in that wide gray zone between stable and chaotic, more dysfunctional than not -- in other words, an emblematic American household. Her stepdad is ''O.K.,'' her younger half-brother is ''pretty cool,'' her stepsister is a mean girl and a bully; but Linnea loves her mom, and since she can't remember her feckless, long-lost father, she doesn't really miss him. Theirs is a typical blended family, so sadly representative that the nightmare that demolishes their relative peace and turns Linnea into an unreachable, volatile teenager is a school shooting -- a signature American tragedy. Suffice it to say that the details of that awful day are blood-chilling and unbearable. As survivors go, Linnea is especially unlucky. She's earned her trauma, and she wears it like a badge. 
Conner is also a good kid, also a product of a failed marriage, who has elected to stick by his down-on-his-luck dad, an unemployed carpenter whose house is in foreclosure. Their functional dysfunctional home is destroyed by another exemplary symptom of modern American dislocation and unhappiness: a cyber-date gone horrendously wrong. Lonely, horny, desperate for relief from his many bankruptcies, the dad had managed to find a woman in even deeper trouble, and their encounter leaves him maimed in body and in spirit, with poor Conner left to pick up the pieces.
That Linnea and Conner meet (not cute) and become entwined (not in the ways one might expect) seems both calculated and still oddly organic, largely because of their creator's sharp lens and generous heart. She loves them, warts and all, and we do, too -- pretty much a good thing, since at the start no one is on their sides but us.
''The Humanity Project'' is Jean Thompson's sixth novel, and it is a forthright piece of social criticism in which children are victims of both their dreadful peers and their parents' immaturity, and parents are victims of the times: the economy, the government, the banks, their own predilections for OxyContin and alcohol, the contemporary culture's lack of -- Thompson's titular word -- humanity. Thompson is also an accomplished story writer, and she presents this novel as a bleak yet strangely charming series of storylike chapters -- complete mini-narratives from a kaleidoscopic range of points of view, often ending with a cliffhanger -- revolving not only around the friendship between Conner and Linnea, but also around Linnea's reunion with her hapless father, Art, a part-time academic who is forced into late-breaking parenthood when Linnea's mother gives up on her.
Conner, Linnea, Art, his downstairs neighbor Christie (a nurse and sort of Buddhist) and Christie's patient, Mrs. Foster (an off-her-rocker wealthy widow), all live in haute-hippie Mill Valley, Calif. Their various stories bump into one another and weave in and out like a litter of kittens between a kibble-bearer's legs. This piece of the world is as high-low a macrocosm as any: ''One of those odd mixes of wealth and distress. The truly rich had houses up in the hills, while those like himself got by in their odd corners. People in tennis clothes drank white wine in the restaurants at 1 o'clock in the afternoon. But in the parking lot adjacent to Art's apartment building, a man had lived for some months in a huge stationary white Lincoln.''
This novel explores aspects of almost all our national modern ills -- bullying, school shootings, the dangers of cyber-hookups, homelessness, the housing crises, income disparity, crazy-rich-person philanthropy -- and has enough chance interactions to make Dickens blush. It is ambitious and largely captivating, and many of the passages, especially those describing the Bay Area, are luscious and evocative (this reader Googled airfares between the chapters). What I'm describing sounds like an epic novel but is a very readable 300-something pages. The cumulative effect of all its hot-button topics, however, is somewhat confusing. Is this satire or realism? Sometimes farce?
The centripetal force for all of these struggling characters turns out to be the batty Mrs. Foster. She decides she wants to spend part of her husband's fortune establishing a foundation, the Humanity Project, and she offers Nurse Christie a great deal of money to run it. Mrs. Foster's vision: ''We could pay people to be good'' -- bribery as philanthropy.
This satirical notion departs from the sometimes moving pathos of the earlier sections, with the story plunging into a bit of wacky fun at the expense of would-be do-gooders and their enablers, the people who make money off foundations and corporations, like lawyers and caterers. It also allows for a rollicking set piece, again tonally divergent, toward the end of the book: a two-day conference titled ''Investing in Our Better Selves,'' where the speeches and discussion groups have Onion-worthy names: ''Learning From the Rural Poor of India.'' ''How Nonprofits Can Profit.'' ''What We Talk About When We Talk About Wealth.'' And ''Hard Times and Social Pathology.''
I'm not David Brooks, with his taste for looking at the world through binary glasses. But if I were, I might say that readers fall into two camps, those who relish the way coincidence brings a cast of characters to their knees and then into one another's arms, and those who will find this novel's myriad connections a bit too convenient and the resulting resolutions too tidy. I'd fall into Camp 2 myself, but I recognize the pleasures of Camp 1. I also recognize from my top bunk across the lake the originality of some of the twists and turns that bring these children of Job to a place where one spies hope. Thompson is a writer attuned to the callousness of 21st-century society, its comedic elements, its misguided efforts to right itself, its often tragic results. She's culled the news and integrated it into her text, sometimes shooting ducks in a barrel and other times mining her characters' complex circumstances to shed light on their embittered souls. They are to a certain degree archetypes; they also exhibit vast reserves of strength and endurance. There's real beauty in the way Thompson has them serve one another, even if that loving service is often not enough. It is, however, deeply human.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELSEY DAKE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (85%); CHILDREN (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); FAMILY (77%); STEPPARENTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (71%); SHOOTINGS (69%); WRITERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



620 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: An Economy in Transition

 BODY:
Readers discuss how to adapt to a changing job market.
To the Editor:
Re ''Where Have All the Jobs Gone?,'' by Jared Bernstein (Op-Ed, May 3):
Unemployment is staying high despite the end of the recession because we are now in a historic transition. Because of automation, globalization, efficiency and other factors, we no longer need the share of people working that we have had in the past. With these trends moving in only one direction, it is clear that the job crisis is permanent and will not go away with better economic times.
We can see this shift in recent social patterns. Working ages, once routinely 21 to 65, are narrowing, with younger people dependent longer and those older, often thrown out of their careers, increasingly choosing different lifestyles. More Americans without realistic expectations of supporting themselves legally are falling into bad habits, a problem cutting across racial, regional and urban-rural lines.
The ''brain drain'' no longer refers to workers coming to the United States; it now means foreigners going home after being educated here, or even our citizens moving elsewhere. Since women have weathered the trends better as a group, we are having new tensions between the sexes, with unemployed, directionless men becoming more common. 
Protectionist solutions will not solve this core problem. A more effective measure would be a Works Progress Administration-style infrastructure project, which with relatively low labor and material costs will never be cheaper than now. Also beneficial would be reducing work hours, to spread work around while improving our quality of life.
If we continue assuming that the job shortage will resolve itself, we risk dire consequences. More Americans will be without hope or purpose. Companies of all sizes may crash from lack of customers.
The challenge for our public policy as well as for Americans individually is to adapt to the permanent nature of what we are facing.
JAMES B. HUNTINGTON Eldred, N.Y., May 13, 2013
The writer is the author of ''Work's New Age: The End of Full Employment and What It Means to You.''
Readers React
In decades gone by, it was assumed that mechanization would liberate the masses from the drudgery of work. Instead, mechanization and globalization have ''liberated'' them from the ability to make a living.
We produce ever more as a society, be it food, clothes or iPads. However, the rewards of this bonanza are concentrated in ever fewer hands, while most of society struggles to get by. To continue on this path is ill advised, as a society out of financial balance cannot ultimately be stable.
Large chunks of the population must not be allowed to remain unemployed, but what jobs can be created that will be neither mechanized nor outsourced? Mr. Huntington mentions infrastructure projects, in conjunction with shorter working hours. I would also suggest projects to train large numbers of health care and elder care workers. We have a nation full of people desperately in need of these services.
Solutions to the unemployment issue require financing. Income and corporate taxes in the United States are low by historical standards, and rife with loopholes. Revising the tax code and funneling the resulting tax income into job-producing programs is a good way to begin fighting unemployment.
Unfortunately, I am not optimistic that this can happen in the current environment, where big money all too often calls the shots in its own short-term self-interest.
KIM JOHNSON Stamford, Conn., May 15, 2013
Mr. Huntington states what is rapidly becoming obvious: given the rise of the machines, human labor is worth less and less in the marketplace, leaving many without a living wage.
But we must also recognize another new development: there are now sufficient resources and productive capacity to provide food, shelter and health care to everyone, whether fully employed or not. The moral conclusion to draw is that if there's not enough work to go around -- and if it isn't necessary to boot -- then one shouldn't have to be employed to deserve a life worth living. In terms of meeting human needs, there's not a job crisis, but a crisis of resource distribution.
However, as Mr. Huntington points out, idleness undermines motivation, hope and purpose, so we must be more imaginative in creating meaningful work. There are many human-to-human, non-automatable occupations that could be expanded: teaching, mentoring, counseling, caring for the young, sick and elderly, rehabilitating offenders, providing social services, and training people for such occupations.
If we can put people before profits in allocating resources (a radical proposal, I realize), we'll apply the growing labor surplus not just to building and maintaining infrastructure, but to meeting the growing, and permanent, demand for human services with a human touch.
THOMAS W. CLARK Somerville, Mass., May 15, 2013
The writer is a research associate at the Institute for Behavioral Health, Heller School of Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University.
When my husband's corporate career was cut short, and we hung on by our fingernails to what was left of the gracious living it provided, we hoped and prayed (and job-hunted) for a miracle that would rescue us. It was not to be. We sold our house on a short sale.
Two years later, we live in a basement apartment, and at 61 and 59 contemplate the future. He's selling cars, I'm job-hopping and wondering if my white hair is a detriment to my chances of getting a job at a local grocery store.
My husband thinks back to his father, coming of age during the Depression, and how fortunate that the Civilian Conservation Corps was available for him. A repurposed C.C.C. is just what we could use -- and we are so not alone in this. Many people our age have found themselves jobless, but that doesn't mean we don't have skills, talents, determination and, most important, the desire to get a feeling of satisfaction back after years on the corporate track.
SUSAN MITCHELL JOHNSON Urbandale, Iowa, May 15, 2013
Mr. Huntington is right about the extraordinary economic transformation we are now undergoing. Unfortunately, the remedies he proposes are mere Band-Aids.
Disruptive technologies are always accompanied at first by job losses -- for example, farm jobs at the onset of the Industrial Revolution. But they have eventually always created more and better-paying jobs than the ones lost.
This new technological revolution may become the first time that historical pattern is not repeated. And that's because this new version is eliminating jobs that are higher up on the economic scale -- middle management, for example, and skilled, educated technicians -- and replacing them with higher-paying but fewer jobs.
It is critical that we think about how to respond to a new economic and social paradigm. Should we still consider work to be a necessary element in how we define human beings? Should we redefine how people contribute to the community? What kinds of assistance should we offer to those who have been replaced by machines? How, ultimately, do we define what it means to be a productive member of society when there are no longer enough jobs for people?
ARNOLD BROWN New York, May 15, 2013
The writer is chairman of Weiner, Edrich, Brown, a consulting firm that analyzes trends.
Mr. Huntington assumes that present trends will continue into the future. He cannot possibly know whether or not ''automation, globalization, efficiency and other factors'' will always work to depress the job market.
Economists are not necessarily good at making even near-term predictions, as the failure of most of them to predict the financial crisis suggests. We should be skeptical of long-term economic predictions and especially of predictions that purport to tell us what is going to be true permanently. Mr. Huntington's claim that ''the job crisis is permanent'' overreaches.
JONATHAN MARKS Collegeville, Pa., May 16, 2013
The writer is an associate professor of politics at Ursinus College.
As the author of an Op-Ed article in The Times entitled ''The Age of the Superfluous Workers,'' I agree most strongly with Mr. Huntington's analysis, predictions and most of his policy ideas. However, effective work time reduction requires enough progressive tax reform and income redistribution to compensate for the accompanying wage and salary reductions -- and that requires reducing America's inequalities.
HERBERT J. GANS New York, May 15, 2013
The writer is professor emeritus of sociology at Columbia University.
America's job crisis is temporary. It is a result of an aging population and the recent economic crises. The baby boomers who have delayed their retirements, because of economic fears and uncertainties, have caused a bottleneck in the job market. According to the 2011 Associated Press and LifeGoesStrong.com surveys, 60 percent of the baby boomers lost value in investments because of the economic crises, 42 percent are delaying retirement and 25 percent claim they'll never retire.
The dramatic demographic change caused by the high birthrate during the baby boom years has resulted in a disproportionate number of older workers in the labor force. The employment picture will improve dramatically once the baby boomers retire and open up jobs for young workers. It is very likely that 10 years from today, when the United States has a disproportionate number of retirees, the economy will be facing a labor shortage.
ANDRE MONTERO Brooklyn, May 15, 2013
The writer is professor emeritus of accounting at Kingsborough Community College.
The job crisis is a reflection of the fact that we buy foreign products because of price, and our companies have gone overseas to supply us. Moreover, we are raising children who will be unable to compete.
Our universities are churning out ill-prepared graduates in many useless fields. We need to produce more employable graduates.
Employers are the job creators. Why should they receive any subsidies for jobs they create offshore? Begin by eliminating the foreign tax credit and scrutinizing transfer pricing.
Our government needs to acknowledge the reality that foreign competitors compete unfairly in many cases. We should have customs duties that include a charge for undervaluation of their currencies.
Our greatest strength is our human capital. Why do we invest so little in educating and developing it?
DIEGO G. MARTINEZ Pittsburgh, May 15, 2013
The Writer Responds
There are many ways we can deal with this problem. True, Mr. Brown, the solutions proposed aren't enough, but we need to start somewhere. As Kim Johnson pointed out, the ''current environment,'' not to mention our distance from a consensus that the job crisis is permanent, means that we are a long way from acceptance of stronger medicine.
I believe that employers should get better tax treatment for creating and even sustaining jobs located in America.
However, some of the measures suggested would not be responsive to the problem. Training workers, even for positions as relatively promising as health and elder care, does not create jobs. The issue is not that our people are unprepared for work; it is that they can't find it.
Increased customs tariffs would hurt prosperity and would only move jobs from one foreign country to another.
Most important is for us to understand the depth and stability of the job crisis. Disappearing service positions are not likely to be replaced by anything with paychecks. Disconnecting health care coverage from work, and shifting from income to other taxes, will eventually prove mandatory. Although guaranteed income, even if spartan, would be expensive, it is worthy of national discussion. Such a program could reward or require activity of some sort, with working in the community to provide services such as Mr. Clark proposes prominent on the list.
Until we acknowledge and address this crisis, more and more Americans, like Susan Mitchell Johnson, will find less and less to do with their ''skills, talents'' and ''determination.''
JAMES B. HUNTINGTON Eldred, N.Y., May 16, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN HENDRIX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



621 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL | LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Reply All The 5.5.13 Issue

 BODY:
SUMMERS AND HUBBARD SQUARE OFF
What neither Larry Summers nor Glenn Hubbard address adequately is concentrated wealth. Having worked in the financial-services industry and raised a family for the last 30 years, I've seen the recurring series of asset bubbles and middle-class compression in this country, both of which, I believe, are connected with the fact that virtually all of our economic growth of the last three decades has been swept into a very small corner. It's time we had some serious economic research into how concentrated wealth impedes growth. C. ERIC CALLOW, La Cañada Flintridge, Calif.
''The space between their views roughly defines the American center.'' False. Both Hubbard and Summers are well to the right of public opinion. JOHN T., New York, posted on nytimes.com 
Adam Davidson hoped Hubbard and Summers could reach an agreement that would inspire Congress to break its deadlock over fiscal policy. The solution, which dares not speak its name, is inflation. Moderate inflation could increase sales revenues, because consumers rush to purchase goods before prices go up. It could increase income-tax revenues, because workers experience bracket creep as their wages rise. It could reduce deficits because debts and entitlements are paid off with deflated dollars. For this to work, the Fed must keep interest rates lower than the inflation rate, which it's already doing. With no need for compromise, each party can retain its ideological purity, blame its opponents and take credit for reducing the deficit and reviving the economy. ROBERT SILVERMAN, Wimauma, Fla.
THE BEST EDUCATION MONEY CAN BUY?
The private school that Jenny Anderson wrote about, Avenues, says it wants to build humility in its students. I attended Horace Mann for two years in the 1970s. My middle-class parents thought I was becoming an entitled little snot. They pulled me out and sent me to the local public school. Let me tell you, there was no better lesson in humility than that. GLORIA HOWARD, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com
Jenny Anderson failed to cover any of the middle-class families that are making extraordinary sacrifices to send their children to the Avenues school. She also managed to target an individual first-grader by including an unattributed quote saying that the child was not ''what this school should be.'' Suri Cruise is not a cultural artifact; she's a kid. CATHERINE HOOPER, Parent of a second-grader at Avenues, New York
SILICON VALLEY'S START-UP MACHINE
The spirit of the people working with Y Combinator is exciting, but it can be shallow. Can we compete in a global economy selling T-shirts and Web sites? Can a country of entrepreneurs who make and sell nothing survive? M. ROSE BEST, Boston, posted on nytimes.com
When I talk to people about why women and minorities are underrepresented in venture-capital-backed start-ups, I hear this all the time: Investors are looking for entrepreneurs who look like Mark Zuckerberg. . . . People usually mean this in the broader sense: that investors look at young white men differently than they look at entrepreneurs with different demographic profiles. Paul Graham deserves credit for interrogating his biases and sharing at least some of the results. (He's previously noted that Y Combinator was more receptive to pitches after lunch.) But that self-reflection is the exception in Silicon Valley, not the norm. The venture capitalists who pack Y Combinator's demo days have their own hidden biases. . . . How should entrepreneurs prepare? Perhaps start with a hoodie. JOHN TOZZI on The New Entrepreneur blog on businessweek.com
MY DESPERATE, STUPID, EMOTIONAL HUNT FOR THE PERFECT PANTS
This cute article from the @nytimes on denim snobbery is worthy just for its mockery of hipster mustaches! @sam_macpherson

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES CASEBERE) GRAPHIC: ANALYTICS: A School for Anxious Parents 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); CHILDREN (69%); INCOME TAX (67%); COMPANY REVENUES (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013



622 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: 

 BODY:
Strolling of the Heifers,
Brattleboro, Vt.
This weekend parade and festival honors the region's economic engine, its cows. On June 8, farmers will lead their prized heifer calves through the town's center, with horses, mules and other animals following. The Slow Living Summit, which ends June 7, will feature food vendors and exhibits related to sustainable farming and eating. On June 9, cycling tours of 15 to 60 miles will visit some of the area's farms and woodlands. 
Washboard Music Festival,
Logan, Ohio
This festival, June 13 to 15, celebrates the humble washboard, the percussive instrument that keeps time for many a jug or jazz or zydeco band. There will be free concerts, washboard factory tours and parades. Arnett Howard and the Creole Funk Band will kick off a series of concerts that features bands like Blue Lunch and the Wayfarers. Events unrelated to the washboard's wonders include a quilt exhibition and a car show.
Hilltown 6 Pottery Tour, Mass.
On July 27 and 28, pottery studios, kilns and showrooms around the Hilltown region will open to the public. Though the weekend's purpose is to showcase the exquisite pottery of artisans like Eric Smith, Hiroshi Nakayama and Michael McCarthy, it's also a great excuse to roam the beautiful countryside. Maps of the pottery workshops can be downloaded at hilltown6.com.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE ONLINE BLOG, WRITTEN BY THE EDITORS AND REPORTERS OF THE TRAVEL SECTION, AT NYTIMES.COM/INTRANSIT

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON R. HENSKE
HOCKING HILLS TOURISM ASSOCIATION
 ROBBIE HEIDINGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); ANIMALS (77%); TRADE SHOWS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); QUILTS & QUILTING (71%); COUNTRY MUSIC (70%); MUSIC (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



623 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Clotheslined

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
A couple of years ago, I was in an industrial park in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, as a textiles executive pitched me on becoming a rich T-shirt manufacturer. It was easy, he said, to teach basic sewing to even the most poorly educated farmers. If I could spend $500,000 on used sewing machines (he knew a guy), rent a concrete building with no air-conditioning and hire a few dozen peyizan (Creole for ''peasants'') for around $3 per day, I could recoup my investment within two years. And if it didn't work out, he noted, I could sell the equipment to an entrepreneur in another poor nation. 
Nearly every rich country has gone through a ''T-shirt phase'' -- an economic period in which there are a significant number of poor farmers who, rather than toil on unproductive land, accept harsh work conditions and low wages in textile and apparel factories. Britain started its T-shirt phase in the late 18th century; the United States had two -- New England in the 19th century, then the South in the 20th. During the last 80 or so years, many Asian countries -- first Japan, then Korea, Taiwan and China -- progressed from the T-shirt phase into broader economic development. Cambodia, Vietnam, parts of India and Sri Lanka are passing through this now. But Bangladesh, where an eight-story apparel factory tragically collapsed last month, killing hundreds of workers and devastating the country, is in the midst of a particularly confusing T-shirt phase. The question is whether it will emerge into a more developed economy, like its many predecessors, or remain stuck, like Haiti.
According to the comprehensive ''Ashgate Companion to the History of Textile Workers,'' a study of 21 countries over 350 years, nearly every nation suffered through its T-shirt phase differently. Argentina's brutal encomienda system literally worked indigenous laborers to death. The Hapsburg monarchy's T-shirt phase coincided with its own collapse. Japan's progress was slowed by a world war; Germany's was all but destroyed by two. New England's textile workers had it relatively good; if conditions didn't improve, they could threaten to leave for the frontier.
All these countries, however, experienced the same broad phenomenon. Lex Heerma van Voss, an editor of the ''Ashgate Companion,'' told me that the T-shirt phase lasts only as long as there are large populations of farmers with few options. This is known as a ''race to the bottom.'' Factory owners compete by offering low prices, which are accomplished by paying workers tiny wages. Cutting costs by a few pennies per shirt may sound trivial, but mass-market brands find that even a slight increase in price destroys demand. And those pennies at wholesale become dollars at retail.
But once the factories have absorbed all these desperate farmers, they need to find a new competitive advantage. That usually involves making better products. When the T-shirt phase ends, a ''race to the top'' usually begins. Factories often shift to finer clothes, like dress shirts, which require skilled workers. This phase often involves the growth of unions and rising wages. It's typically followed by one in which factory owners, forced to pay more, seek out ever more profitable lines of business. That can mean the move to low-end electronics assembly, then auto plants and maybe even airplane manufacturing. At the high end of the spectrum, you begin to see what the U.S. manufacturing economy is going through now -- expensive products, like medical devices, which are often made by machines that are operated by highly skilled workers.
Bangladesh is in that moment when the race to the bottom coincides with the beginning of a race to the top. Munir Quddus, dean of the business school at Prairie View A&M University in Texas, remembers living as a teenager in Bangladesh, in the '70s, when it was one of the poorest countries on earth. Since the arrival of textile manufacturing, in the late 1970s, the country's poverty rate has fallen to less than 40 percent from 70. The average Bangladeshi went from living on about $1 a day to more than $5. But while there have been modest improvements in some factories (''They have air-conditioning,'' Quddus says), there are still thousands of decrepit ones with minimal oversight. Quddus also points out that roughly 10 percent of Parliament seats are occupied by factory owners, and others have strong political ties. This includes Sohel Rana, the owner of the factory building that recently collapsed.
Bangladesh has become the world's second-largest apparel exporter, growing from next to nothing to $18 billion a year. ''It could be a $40 or $50 billion superpower,'' Quddus told me. That will require a coordinated race to the top. The government would have to support factory inspections and safer conditions, which would inevitably raise prices -- and could send wholesalers elsewhere. Cambodia responded to angry worker strikes by raising its minimum wage to $78 a month, about double of that in Bangladesh. The average Cambodian T-shirt now costs an American wholesaler around $2.50, which is 82 cents more than one coming from Bangladesh -- a huge differential in the apparel trade. Mike Flanagan, a retail-sourcing consultant, told me that if Bangladesh raised its prices even 50 cents, the results would be devastating. ''There won't be four million garment-making jobs in Bangladesh,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''There probably won't be 4,000.''
Many in Bangladesh fear that if the country becomes too expensive a place to make clothes, countless sewing machines will be sent to new factories in Nigeria, Kenya or Ghana. But Vijaya Ramachandran, an economist at the Center for Global Development, who recently studied the industrial prospects of sub-Saharan nations, says this outcome is unlikely. African countries may have a steady supply of unskilled labor, but a higher cost of living should keep them from competing with Bangladesh.
Ramachandran and I tried to figure out what countries might inherit Bangladesh's T-shirt phase. Other than Burma, a long shot, Ramachandran couldn't think of any. For now, Bangladesh might be where this centuries-long T-shirt journey ends, which means that their race to the bottom may be rooted in a misunderstanding. The country's manufacturers can afford to take a step or two up the value chain. Not only can they pay their workers more, treat them better and house them in safe and clean factories, but there is also a significant economic incentive to do so.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Most rich countries have gone through a "T-shirt phase."
2. And come out of it with a stronger economy.
3. But things are a little more complicated in Bangladesh.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER REITMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); TEXTILES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



624 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Is It Time to Bag the Plastic?

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL. 
A reporter on the environment and health for The New York Times.

 BODY:
IN my New York City apartment, the kitchen drawers, the coat closet, even the wine rack are overflowing with a type of waste that is rapidly disappearing elsewhere -- the used plastic shopping bag.
Many countries and a handful of American cities have more or less done away with this supposed convenience item, by discouraging its use through plastic-bag taxes at checkout counters or outright bans. Walk down the streets of Dublin or Seattle or San Francisco and there is barely a bag in sight. Life continues.
''It didn't take people very long to accommodate at all,'' said Dick Lilly, manager for waste prevention in Seattle, where a plastic-bag ban took effect last summer. ''Basically overnight those grocery and drugstore bags were gone.'' 
But in much of America we seem more addicted than ever. On a recent shopping trip to Target in Chicago for some dorm supplies while visiting my son, I emerged with what seemed to be more bags than socks or rolls of toilet paper (only a slight exaggeration). At my local supermarket, plastic bags are applied layer upon layer around purchases, like Russian nesting dolls.
''Plastic shopping bags are an enormous problem for New York City,'' said Ron Gonen, the deputy commissioner of sanitation for recycling and waste reduction, noting that the city pays $10 million annually to send 100,000 tons of plastic bags that are tossed in the general trash to landfills in South Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania. That, he points out, ''is amazing to think of, because a plastic bag doesn't weigh much at all.''
All across the country, plastic bags are the bane of recycling programs. When carelessly placed into recycling bins for general plastic -- which they often are -- the bags jam and damage expensive sorting machines, which cost huge amounts to repair.
''We have to get people to start carrying reusable bags,'' Mr. Gonen said. ''We're going to do what we can to start moving the needle.''
''The question,'' he continued, ''is do we use a carrot or a stick to change behavior?''
So far New York has used carrots, to little effect. (More about that later.) Unfortunately, most experts believe it will take a stiff stick to break a habit as ingrained as this one is in the United States. (In many European countries, like France and Italy, the plastic bag thing never fully caught on.)
In my case, I know I should bring a cloth bag along for shopping trips. And I do -- when I remember. But experience shows that even environmentally conscious people need prodding and incentives to change their behavior permanently.
Where they exist, bans and charges or taxes (when set high enough) have been extremely successful and often raise revenue for other environmental projects. Unfortunately, these tactics are deeply unpopular in most of the nation.
After Austin, Tex., passed a bag ban earlier this year and with Dallas considering one, State Representative Drew Springer, a Republican, introduced the Shopping Bag Freedom Act in the Legislature. That act essentially bans bag bans, protecting the right of merchants to provide bags of any material to customers.
Businesses often fight hard against plastic-bag laws. When in 2007, Seattle first tried to impose a fee of 20 cents for each plastic bag, the American Chemistry Council financed a popular referendum that voted down the ''bag tax,'' before it even took effect, Mr. Lilly said.
It took several more years for the city to regroup and impose its current ban. Plastic shopping bags are forbidden in stores, and though paper bags may be used, each one costs the shopper 5 cents. (There are exemptions, however: restaurants managed to secure one for takeout food, for example.)
A number of states are considering some form of statewide bans or taxes. And last month, Representative James P. Moran, Democrat of Virginia, introduced a bill to create a national 5-cent tax on all disposable plastic or paper bags provided by stores to customers. Some of the revenue would be used to create a Disposable Carryout Bag Trust Fund and to maintain national parks.
Actually, the idea of a bag tax may not seem so foreign to federal lawmakers: for the past three years, Washington has had its own 5-cent tax. Although bag use there dropped sharply, many experts feel that the charge should be even higher. In Ireland, for example, the bag tax is about 30 cents per bag.
By any measure, New Yorkers are laggards on the issue. In 2008, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tried unsuccessfully to pass a bag tax of 6 cents. More recently, New York State has preferred to attack the problem with soft diplomacy. Since 2009, large stores throughout the state providing plastic bags have been required to take them back for recycling. But there is not much enforcement, Mr. Gonen said, and the program ''hasn't put a dent'' in the numbers.
While the chain pharmacies and supermarkets in my neighborhood initially put out recycling bins for the bags, they have largely disappeared. Some stores will begrudgingly take back plastic at the sales counter -- though I've seen the bags subsequently tossed in the trash. (Though plastic bags can be recycled, they must be separated from other forms of plastic.) The Bloomberg administration is also considering partnering with supermarkets to create incentive programs with shopping points awarded to those who bring reusable bags.
Frank Convery, an economist at University College, Dublin, who has studied the effects of Ireland's 10-year-old bag tax -- the first in the world -- is skeptical: ''As regards the plastic bag issue, whatever is done has to be mandatory,'' he said. ''The New York model is designed to fail.''
Mr. Gonen said cities got a lot of complaints about plastic bags. So why wouldn't that inspire more of them to take action? It is another paradox of environmental politics -- just as when New Yorkers show strong support for a bike-sharing plan but protest when bike-sharing racks appear on their sidewalk.
In a city where dog owners are forced to pick up their pets' waste and are precluded from smoking in parks, why is it so hard to get people to employ reusable bags for shopping?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Few State Laws Restrict Plastic Bags ...
CHART: ... As the Piles Get Bigger: Weight of plastic bags in United States municipal trash. (Sources: National Conference of State Legislatures
 Environmental Protection Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (92%); WASTE REDUCTION (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013



625 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Dueling Jobs (And Big Paydays)

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH it carries something of a dubious pedigree, the PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust has generated pretty good profits for investors since it went public in 2009. Overseen by former executives at Countrywide Financial, ground zero for the subprime mortgage mess, PennyMac has generated a total return of 32 percent to shareholders over that time. Its current annual payout rate of 9 percent is generous among other mortgage real estate investment trusts.
But while shareholders have been banking these returns, Stanford L. Kurland, PennyMac's C.E.O. and chairman, has reaped even greater riches from the REIT. He has done so through a couple of private companies: a mortgage servicing unit and an investment adviser that externally manages the REIT. These companies are units of PennyMac Financial Services, which not only earns lucrative fees from the REIT but also uses the REIT to generate business opportunities that it keeps for itself, financial statements show. Mr. Kurland owns 11.5 percent of the financial services company.
In other words, PennyMac Financial Services, of which Mr. Kurland is also C.E.O., is generating significant profits from a REIT on whose board he serves and to whose shareholders he owes a fiduciary duty. 
''We recognize that conflict has the potential to arise in our businesses,'' Mr. Kurland said in a statement. ''However, each and every related-party transaction is reviewed by the related-party committee of each independent board and is subject to securities disclosure rules for related party transactions.''
First, a little history. Mr. Kurland enjoyed a long and prosperous career at Countrywide Financial, joining the company in 1979, just 10 years after Angelo R. Mozilo and David Loeb founded it. From 2004 through most of 2006, Mr. Kurland was president of Countrywide as it churned out some of the stinkiest loans ever created.
Mr. Kurland's second act began in 2008 and 2009, during the financial crisis. In 2009, he founded the PennyMac REIT, receiving financing from BlackRock, the money management giant, and Highfields Capital, an investment firm in Boston. Since its public stock offering that year, PennyMac has raised $1.13 billion in equity.
The year before founding the REIT, Mr. Kurland established a separate loan servicing company and investment adviser that provides it with management services. Rather than folding these companies into the REIT, he owned them with BlackRock and Highfields Capital.
Externally managed REITs, like PennyMac, are unusual today because they create the potential for conflicts if the same people run both entities. (Another such REIT, CommonWealth, was featured in this column two weeks ago.)
IT was unclear until recently how lucrative the relationship with the PennyMac REIT was for Mr. Kurland's side companies. But an I.P.O. statement filed earlier this year by PennyMac Financial Services, the previously private company that contains the REIT's investment adviser, lifts the curtain on the arrangement.
PennyMac REIT, the document says, paid Financial Services and its subsidiaries $96.7 million in fees last year, up from $8.5 million in 2010 and $23.4 million in 2011. That's an 11-fold increase in just two years. In 2012 alone, the REIT accounted for more than one-third of Financial Services' net revenue.
As for the potential conflicts, the PennyMac Financial Services offering statement notes that Mr. Kurland and others in the upper echelons of the company ''may have conflicts in allocating their time and services between our operations'' and those of the REIT.
In addition, the public filing states that the overlapping objectives of the REIT and the financial services company could present problems. PennyMac Financial Services might participate in some of the REIT's investments, the document notes, without negotiating at arm's length. This could result in potential conflicts, the filing adds, ''between our interests in the investments'' and those of the REIT.
An example: PennyMac Financial Services buys most of its mortgage loans from the REIT at its cost plus 0.03 percent. Then it sells them at a profit, with any luck. Last year, the financial services company generated $118 million on loans it had sold. To the degree that these gains were on loans that originated at the REIT, those were profits that the REIT could have received.
These possible conflicts were described differently for the REIT's shareholders in a February investor presentation. There, the PennyMac REIT characterized its relationship with Financial Services as ''synergistic.''
It's hard to quantify what these potential conflicts might cost the REIT's shareholders. But one way to look at the situation is to compare the overall returns at PennyMac Financial Services with those of the REIT.
Consider return on equity at both companies. In the first quarter of this year, that figure was roughly 78 percent at the financial services concern. At the REIT, it was 18 percent. For all of 2012, returns on equity were 67 percent at PennyMac Financial Services, versus 16 percent at the REIT.
On May 8, PennyMac Financial Services went public at $18 a share. Some 11 million shares were offered for sale, bringing the total shares outstanding to 74.2 million. After the offering, Mr. Kurland owned 11.5 percent, BlackRock owned 29 percent and Highfields 27 percent.
The stock closed on Friday at $20 a share, giving PennyMac Financial Services a market value of $1.48 billion. That values Mr. Kurland's stake at $172 million.
By contrast, over at the REIT, Mr. Kurland owns approximately 335,000 shares, or about half of 1 percent of its stock outstanding.
Given this ownership imbalance, which company do you think will get more of Mr. Kurland's attention?
His dueling jobs at the PennyMac entities also mean different paychecks for him. For his work at the REIT last year, Mr. Kurland was paid $1.87 million in stock. At PennyMac Financial Services, however, he received $2.634 million in total 2012 compensation.
So far, shareholders of the PennyMac REIT don't seem perturbed by the potential conflicts in Mr. Kurland's roles. And Mr. Kurland said that the companies have ''disclosed potential areas of conflict to investors and put in place practices and structures that address them if they arise.''
To eliminate any perception of conflict, Mr. Kurland could have rolled up the ancillary companies into the REIT itself. But that was not done.
As such, Mr. Kurland's returns on his investment are far higher than those generated by the PennyMac REIT shareholders. According to financial statements, during 2009 and 2010, Mr. Kurland, BlackRock and Highfields contributed $97 million of capital into the company that became PennyMac Financial Services. Thanks to the new stock issue, that investment has grown to $1.2 billion, a more than 12-fold return.
For shareholders in the REIT, by contrast, their total return of 32 percent since the I.P.O. has been a good gain. But it's certainly not the jackpot that Mr. Kurland has just hit.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2013

 CORRECTION:
The Fair Game column last Sunday, about the PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust, misstated the year of its founding by Stanford L. Kurland, its chief executive. It was 2009, not 2008, which means that it began after the establishment of PennyMac Financial Services, the company that manages it; the two were not established at the same time. The column also misidentified a firm that was a source of the investment trust's financing. It is Highfields Capital, not Highbridge Capital. And the article misstated Mr. Kurland's ownership stake in PennyMac Financial Services. It is 11.5 percent, valued at $172 million as of May 17, not 23 percent or $341 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stanford L. Kurland, the chief executive of the PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust, owns 23 percent of the company that externally manages it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: PRIVATE NATIONAL MORTGAGE ACCEPTANCE CO LLC (90%); PENNYMAC FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (56%)

TICKER: PFSI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (56%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013



626 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Obama Urges Morehouse Graduates to 'Keep Setting an Example'

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: Fifty years after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King delivered his landmark &#8220;I Have a Dream&#8221; speech in Washington, President Obama told graduates of Dr. King&#8217;s alma mater that &#8220;laws, hearts and minds have been changed to the point where someone who looks like you can serve as president of the United States.&#8221; 

 BODY:
ATLANTA - President Obama came to Morehouse College, the alma mater of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., on Sunday to tell graduates, 50 years after Dr. King's landmark "I Have a Dream" speech in Washington, that "laws and hearts and minds have been changed to the point where someone who looks just like you can somehow come to serve as president of these United States."
The president tied Dr. King's journey to his own, speaking in forthright and strikingly personal terms about his struggles as a young man with an absent father, a "heroic single mom," and the psychological burdens of being black in America. 
He also issued a challenge to the graduating class, imploring the young men of Morehouse, the nation's only historically black, all-male college, to be responsible family men, to set an example, and to extend a hand to those less privileged than them.
While Mr. Obama has struck these themes before, he has rarely done so in such unsparing terms. After a week in which his presidency seemed adrift on a sea of controversies, the speech served as both a reminder of his historic role and an emphatic change of subject.
"We know that too many young men in our community continue to make bad choices," Mr. Obama said. "And I have to say, growing up I made quite a few myself. Sometimes I wrote off my own failings as just another example of the world trying to keep a black man down."
"But one of the things all of you have learned over the last four years is there's no longer any room for excuses," the president said to the roughly 500 graduates in a downpour, his words punctuated by claps of thunder.
Wearing academic robes in maroon and black - he was later awarded an honorary law degree - Mr. Obama singled out a graduate, Leland Shelton, who, as a four-year-old had been taken away from his mother by the state. By 14, he was in foster care.
On Sunday, Mr. Shelton graduated with Phi Beta Kappa honors and is enrolling at Harvard Law School. The president said that Mr. Shelton planned to use his law degree to advocate for other foster children.
Above all, Mr. Obama exhorted the graduates to extend a hand to other black men, noting that his own success depended less on his Ivy League credentials than on the sense of empathy and obligation he felt, as a black man, to his brothers.
"But for the grace of God, I might be in their shoes," the president said. "I might have been in prison. I might have been unemployed. I might not have been able to support a family."
Reflecting on his turbulent childhood, Mr. Obama said, "I sure wish I had had a father who was not only present, but involved; didn't know my dad. And so my whole life, I've tried to be for Michelle and my girls what my father wasn't for my mother and me."
Declaring that "there are some things, as black men, we can only do for ourselves," Mr. Obama urged the graduates to "keep setting an example for what it means to be a man." And he asked them to extend their sense of justice to other minorities.
Even as he preached responsibility, Mr. Obama praised the distinguished lineage of Morehouse, whose roots go back to shortly after the Civil War, when 37 black men, slave and free, gathered to form the first class. It is a place, he said, where Dr. King first read Gandhi and Thoreau, and absorbed the theory of civil disobedience.
The president dwelt on the legacy of Dr. King, a member of the class of 1948, whom he described, on his arrival here, as an undersize 15-year-old nicknamed "Tweed" for his natty dress. 
"It was here that professors encouraged him to look past the world as it was and fight for the world as it should be," he said. "And it was here, at Morehouse, as Dr. King later wrote, where 'I realized that nobody was afraid' - not even of some bad weather," Mr. Obama added. 
But the president's visit came as Morehouse was enmeshed in its own controversy. The college hastily revamped the format of its baccalaureate service after one of the speakers, the Rev. Kevin Johnson, wrotean op-ed in The Philadelphia Tribune, criticizing what he said was the president's lack of advocacy on behalf of African-Americans.
In an open letter to the college, the president of Morehouse, John Silvanus Wilson Jr., insisted he had changed the format to include more speakers. "To my chagrin," he wrote, "my decision has been wrongly construed as a decision to 'disinvite' this individual."
Separately, four students from Morehouse were charged with sexual assaultearlier this month in the alleged rape of two female students from nearby Spelman College. Three of the four students are members of the Morehouse basketball team.
Lawyers for the students say the encounters, fueled by drinking, were consensual. The college, declaring it has a "zero tolerance policy related to violence of any kind," said it was cooperating with police and weighing its own disciplinary measures.

        
At Prayer Breakfast, Obama Issues Call for Humility
        
Interesting Facts About Inauguration
        
President's Speech Especially Poignant on the King Holiday
        
White House Aide Calls Criticism of Obama 'Offensive'
        
The Early Word: Fire

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); MEN (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (75%); FOSTER CARE (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); CHILDREN (60%) Atlanta (Ga); blacks; Johnson, Kevin R.; King, Martin Luther Jr; Morehouse College; Obama, Barack; Wilson, John Silvanus Jr.; Blacks; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Morehouse College

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%) King, Martin Luther Jr; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



627 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Stockholder Power Faces Test at JPMorgan

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: At JPMorgan Chase, the move to split the jobs of chairman and chief executive, now held by Jamie Dimon, comes as the bank is actually prospering. 

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon and the 10 other directors of JPMorgan Chase take the stage in Tampa, Fla., on Tuesday, to face shareholders who can take comfort in a rising stock price and a prospering bank.
But those same shareholders may also deliver a humbling rebuff to Mr. Dimon and the bank's board.
If shareholders vote to separate the jobs of chairman and chief executive - positions that Mr. Dimon has held since 2006 - it would signal a shift in the balance of power in corporate America, an inflection point in shareholders' push for greater say in the boardroom. 
Shareholder protests at large companies are usually successful only at those that are troubled or whose stock price has disappointed. 
 But JPMorgan, even after suffering a multibillion-dollar trading loss that exposed weak risk controls and spurred federal investigations, is minting profits quarter after quarter. And its stock price is up 19 percent this year.
A victory against a bank that prides itself on its "fortress balance sheet" would go a long way toward proving that shareholders can push for changes even at strong companies.
"It's a fascinating moment in the arc of corporate governance, where shareholders are poised to get a lot of power," said Charles M. Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.
Raising the stakes, of course, is the presence of Mr. Dimon, the brash chief executive who successfully piloted JPMorgan through the tumultuous 2008 financial crisis. For better or for worse, Mr. Dimon, 57, has come to epitomize the American banker atop an institution that is too big to fail. 
If JPMorgan shareholders reject the proposal - which would not require the bank to act in any case - it will be a powerful endorsement of Mr. Dimon and his leadership. 
In addition, it will help JPMorgan, which has been aggressively working behind the scenes to avert defeat, to move beyond the fallout from the trading loss. 
Regardless of the outcome of the fight, it is likely that the JPMorgan board will make some changes, possibly by shaking up its risk committee or giving its lead director greater power.
Last week, shareholder groups sponsoring the split were cut off from crucial preliminary vote tallies by the firm that provides them, causing the sponsors to cry foul. 
New York State's attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, late on Friday sent a letter to Stephen M. Cutler, JPMorgan's general counsel, that raised serious concerns about why the tallies were cut off, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.
After a series of conference calls on Saturday between lawyers for JPMorgan and the attorney general's office, JPMorgan agreed to direct a firm that provides early tabulations to restart the tallies. 
For investors who argue that an independent chairman is a vital counterbalance to a chief executive, defeat of the resolution would be a significant setback.
After receiving the backing of 40 percent of shares for a similar proposal last year, a small group of JPMorgan shareholders was emboldened to introduce a new resolution in February.
Since then, support for splitting the positions has grown, stoked in part by revelations of JPMorgan's continued regulatory missteps. 
A Senate hearing and a 300-page report on the multibillion-dollar trading loss at the bank's chief investment office in London last year accused the bank of misleading investors and regulators about the botched trades.
In addition to the investigations into the trading losses, there have been inquiries into whether JPMorgan failed to fully alert authorities to suspicions about Bernard L. Madoff and into the bank's trading practices in two electricity markets. 
In January, one of its primary regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, took an enforcement action against the bank over weak controls against money laundering, faulting JPMorgan for failing to report suspicious flows of money. 
Now, the agency is considering fresh enforcement actions against JPMorgan over the way the bank goes after customers for overdue credit card bills. All told, at least eight federal agencies are investigating the bank. 
The regulatory tangle puts Mr. Dimon and JPMorgan, which used to hold special sway in Washington, in a tough position.
Even Mr. Dimon's contrite tone - he apologized in a recent letter to shareholders for letting "our regulators down" and pledging to "do all the work necessary to complete the needed improvements" - hasn't seemed to slow the effort by shareholders supporting the proposal for an independent chairman. 
A steady stream of departures from JPMorgan's upper ranks has also proved to be a boost for the shareholders pushing for a split. The most recent high-level departure came in April, when Frank J. Bisignano, JPMorgan's co-chief operating officer and an executive hailed within the bank as an operational wizard, left to become chief executive of the First Data Corporation. 
Some executives have been driven out by the trading loss, while others have simply departed. The outcome, though, is the same. Mr. Dimon's inner circle, the group of lieutenants that helped him steer the bank through the financial crisis, has been significantly winnowed down: only three remain from the crisis era. 
Even as Mr. Dimon has taken an apologetic tone with regulators, he continues to emphasize JPMorgan's strength and the qualities of its upper management, according to investors who have met with him in recent weeks.
The board, however, may decide that changes are needed, and move to overhaul its risk policy committee. Led by Lee R. Raymond, a former chief executive of Exxon Mobil who acts as the lead director, the board has so far fended off calls from major investors for such a shake-up. 
But those calls gained strength when an influential shareholder advisory firm, Institutional Shareholder Services, or I.S.S., urged shareholders to withhold support for three directors who serve on the risk policy committee - David M. Cote, James S. Crown and Ellen V. Futter. 
The directors, I.S.S. said in a report released this month, "lack robust industry-specific experience" and the mishaps that have accumulated during the last year have only "demonstrated their unsuitability."
JPMorgan and Mr. Raymond have vigorously defended the three directors, noting that they had served on the risk committee when the bank navigated through the financial crisis. In a previous statement about the losses in its chief investment office, JPMorgan said: "While the company has acknowledged a number of mistakes relating to its losses in C.I.O., an independent review committee of the board determined that those mistakes were not attributable to the risk committee."
 Still, the recommendation from I.S.S. held particular force, some investors say, because the advisory firm noted in its report that it opposed directors only in "extraordinary circumstances." 
It is also possible the board will move to bolster the powers of Mr. Raymond, as Goldman did with its lead director this year. This will assuage some shareholders seeking a stronger counterbalance to Mr. Dimon and could take some of the air out of any attempts next year to split the roles.
 "You have to do something to appease shareholders," said a person close to the board. "Otherwise there will be more trouble down the road." 

        
A Call for New Blood on the JPMorgan Board
        
JPMorgan Directors Feel Heat in a Vote

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (93%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAWYERS (85%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Cote, David M; Crown, James S; Dimon, James; Futter, Ellen V; Institutional Shareholder Services Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Raymond, Lee R (1938- ); Schneiderman, Eric T; Shareholder Rights and Activism; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Institutional Shareholder Services Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (94%); DAVID M COTE (92%) Cote, David M; Crown, James S; Dimon, James; Futter, Ellen V; Raymond, Lee R (1938- ); Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



628 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Owner Gets Subpoena to Testify

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Steven A. Cohen, rather than be subject to broad questions from prosecutors, is expected to assert his constitutional right against self-incrimination. 

 BODY:
Steven A. Cohen has received a subpoena to testify before a grand jury in the government's insider trading investigation into his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, a development that signals a newly aggressive phase in the multiyear inquiry, according to lawyers and executives briefed on the case.
Issued last week, the grand jury subpoena came as part of a broader round of requests from criminal authorities. Other SAC executives were also named in the subpoenas, the lawyers and executives said, and the fund itself received requests for information about its activities.
The subpoenas suggested that federal prosecutors and the F.B.I. are intensifying their efforts to build a case, not only against SAC executives, but also the fund itself. Typically, a grand jury will hear testimony and review evidence before deciding to approve an indictment.
 But the fund, which has so far cooperated with the government's inquiry, appeared to balk at some of these new requests. On Friday, SAC told its investors that it was no longer fully cooperating with the investigation. 
"While we have in the past told you of our cooperation with the government's investigation, our cooperation is no longer unconditional," said a letter from SAC to its investors.
The curbing of the fund's cooperation appeared to suggest that Mr. Cohen, rather than testify before the grand jury and be subject to questions from prosecutors on a broad range of topics, would assert his constitutional right against self-incrimination, the lawyers briefed on the case said. 
In the past, however, Mr. Cohen has given testimony in the government's investigation. Last year, he sat for a civil deposition taken by federal securities regulators in an investigation of Mathew Martoma, a former SAC portfolio manager who has been since criminally charged with illegally trading pharmaceutical stocks.
A spokesman for SAC, Jonathan Gasthalter, declined to comment.
A spokesman for the F.B.I. in New York, J. Peter Donald, and a spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, Ellen Davis, both declined to comment about the case.
Neither the firm nor Mr. Cohen, a 56-year-old billionaire who owns it, has been charged with wrongdoing. Mr. Cohen has maintained that he has behaved appropriately at all times.
SAC, which is based in Stamford, Conn., manages roughly $15 billion and has one of the best investment track records on Wall Street, posting an average of 30 percent annual net returns to its investors over the last two decades.
Unlike most hedge funds, which are leanly staffed and typically have one person directing most of the investment decisions, SAC is a sprawling operation, with more than 1,000 employees - portfolio managers, analysts, traders and support staff - in five offices around the world. Despite SAC's superior performance, the legal toll is mounting. Nine former or current SAC employees have been tied to insider trading while at the firm. Four of those employees have pleaded guilty, and two others, Mr. Martoma and Michael S. Steinberg, are fighting the criminal charges against them.
Even before the new subpoenas it was a delicate time for the hedge fund, which is trying to keep its investors from withdrawing their money. This new front in the case could give investors additional cause for concern.
SAC investors have already asked to withdraw $1.7 billion, more than a quarter of the $6 billion that the fund manages for outside clients. The balance of the fund's $15 billion belongs to Mr. Cohen and his employees. To grant investors more time to decide whether to stick with the fund, SAC extended the next regularly scheduled deadline for SAC clients to ask for their money back from last week to early June.
SAC and its lawyers believed that it had put the most serious of its legal problems behind it earlier this year when agreeing to pay a record $616 million penalty to resolve two civil insider-trading lawsuits brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those settlements involved the trading that led to charges against Mr. Martoma and Mr. Steinberg.
But the government surprised Mr. Cohen and his firm by opening up this new chapter of the investigation.
Several weeks ago, federal prosecutors brought SAC's lawyers in for a meeting at their offices in Lower Manhattan. More than a dozen government officials attended the session, led by Richard Zabel, the deputy United States attorney in Manhattan, according to a person briefed on the case. Prosecutors peppered SAC's lawyers with questions about Mr. Cohen and the firm's trading practices. Ultimately, the government decided to issue the grand jury subpoena.
By subpoenaing Mr. Cohen, the government indicated that it was pursuing a case against SAC itself. Federal guidelines discourage prosecutors from soliciting grand jury testimony from the target of an investigation, which suggests that Mr. Cohen was being treated as if he were a potential witness against his own fund.
While the authorities have not settled on a strategy, according to the lawyers and executives briefed on the case, they are pursuing an avenue that could possibly lead to an indictment against SAC, accusing it of allowing traders to carry out illicit activity over years.
But charges against companies are exceedingly rare. Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, went out of businesses after it was indicted in 2002, taking 28,000 jobs with it. (The firm's subsequent conviction was overturned by the Supreme Court.) The episode served as a cautionary tale for prosecutors as they pursue indictments against companies, rather than executives.
Federal guidelines require them to weigh such action with "collateral consequences" like job losses and, in the case of big banks, a threat to the economy. An indictment against a hedge fund like SAC, however, would not destabilize the financial system the way that a prosecution of a large bank potentially could.
The government still faces challenges in its case. For one, the move could be interpreted as a last-ditch effort to ensnare Mr. Cohen. Mr. Martoma and Mr. Steinberg have pleaded not guilty and refused to cooperate with the government in helping them build an insider-trading case against Mr. Cohen. And under the five-year statute of limitations for insider trading crimes, the authorities would have to file either criminal charges or a civil case against Mr. Cohen related to most of trades at issue in the Martoma and Steinberg cases by this summer.
By seeking Mr. Cohen's testimony, federal prosecutors could be trying to get him lie before the grand jury, legal experts say. This way, they could try to charge him with perjury instead of insider trading, which was a similar tack that the government took in its criminal case against the media personality Martha Stewart.
As a result of the new requests, SAC decided that it could no longer provide its investors with updates on the inquiry.
"In the past we have tried to be as transparent with you as possible about the state of the investigation, while balancing our desire for transparency with the need to keep the details of a sensitive investigation confidential," SAC said in the letter sent on Friday to investors.
"During this period, however," the letter said, "the need for confidentiality will limit our ability to share with you details about how the investigation is progressing."

        
SAC Starts to Balk Over Insider Trading Inquiry
        
Ex-Wife of SAC's Cohen Hires New Lawyer in Revived Lawsuit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (96%); HEDGE FUNDS (93%); GRAND JURY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); TESTIMONY (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); DEPOSITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%) Cohen, Steven A; Insider Trading; SAC Capital Advisors; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SAC Capital Advisors

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (90%) Cohen, Steven A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



629 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include sales of existing homes for April (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims and sales of new homes for April (Thursday); and durable goods orders for April (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to release quarterly results include Campbell Soup (Monday); Vodaphone, Home Depot and Best Buy (Tuesday); Target, Staples, Lowe's, Hewlett-Packard and SeaWorld (Wednesday); and Sears, Gap, SABMiller and Lenovo (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Yahoo's chief executive, Marissa Mayer, has scheduled an announcement (Monday). JPMorgan Chase shareholders vote on whether to split chairman and chief executive positions; Clearwire shareholders are to vote on a takeover by Sprint; Microsoft unveils its new Xbox game console; and Apple's chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, is to testify before Congress about offshore taxes (Tuesday). The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testifies on Capitol Hill before the Joint Economic Committee; and the Fed releases minutes from its Federal Open Market Committee policy meeting of April 30-May 1 (Wednesday). Goldman Sachs holds its annual shareholder meeting (Thursday).
OVERSEAS James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, speaks about monetary policy in Frankfurt (Tuesday). The Bank of Japan announces a monetary policy decision; Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, is to discuss a ''New Deal for Europe''; and Kazuo Hirai, the chief executive of Sony, talks about his revival plan (Wednesday). Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, speaks on ''The Future of Europe in the Global Economy'' (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); APPLE INC (67%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (64%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); SABMILLER PLC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (67%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); SOSAB (JSE) (56%); SAB (LSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (67%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (67%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (67%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (67%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (79%); KAZUO HIRAI (79%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); STEVEN JOBS (53%); TIM COOK (53%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



630 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Braiding Hair And Issues About Race

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
AMERICANAH By Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
477 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
When readers of ''Americanah'' first meet its Nigerian-born heroine, Ifemelu, she has come a long way in life. She holds a fellowship at Princeton. She is ''the absolute love of my life'' to the man she is dating, a black American named Blaine, who teaches at Yale. She writes a blog about racial issues that features her ''irreverent, hectoring, funny and thought-provoking voice,'' as one online admirer puts it, though readers of ''Americanah'' may find it more leaden. And she has an old flame in Nigeria, Obinze, who has never gotten over her.
But Ifemelu is dissatisfied. And Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, the immensely talented author of ''Half of a Yellow Sun,'' uses everyday issues to highlight her heroine's resentments. However prestigious her career at Princeton, Ifemelu must travel to less-elite Trenton to have her hair braided -- and she cares about hair so much that it is arguably this book's second-biggest focal point. The complex balance of rational and national identities is its first and foremost concern. 
At the Trenton salon, she is tended to by women from Mali and Senegal with whom she is perhaps supposed to feel a Pan-African kinship. But Ifemelu, like Ms. Adichie, bristles at facile generalizations. And she knows as much about splitting hair as she does about styling it. Though ''Americanah'' takes the shape of a long, star-crossed love story between Ifemelu and Obinze, it is most memorable for its fine-tuned, scathing observations about worldly Nigerians and the ways they create new identities out of pretension and aspiration.
''Half of a Yellow Sun'' was just as fine-tuned. But it played out against the backdrop of the Biafran war, with a stark clarity that automatically gave it gravitas. ''Americanah'' is less authoritative, because its stakes are lower and because Ifemelu's sharp opinions are not accompanied by a strong, aggressive personality. She drifts passively through a long, winding story. And ''Americanah'' comes dangerously close to the ''exaggerated histrionics'' and ''improbable plots'' that she ascribes to Nigerian, or Nollywood, films.
Once it establishes what Ifemelu's life in America has become, ''Americanah'' flashes back to the story of how she left her homeland. And Ms. Adichie's greatest writerly strength lies in the acuity of her descriptions. She writes of a Lagos filled with climbers, debating the merits of American affectations versus English ones for their children, gravitating to those who hold enough power to dispense favors. Ifemelu's Aunty Uju enjoys a cozy setup as a general's pampered mistress until she loses his protection and must flee to America for her life.
We hear Nigerian students acquiring snippets of American culture, arguing about pronunciation (should the first syllable of schedule sound like sked or shed?) and declaring their tastes in fiction. Naturally, Ms. Adichie has a withering eye for the kind of person who cares only about a book's quota of big words.
And we see the economic consequences of brooking authority: Ifemelu's father is fired for refusing to call his female boss ''Mummy,'' no matter how absurd that demand sounds. But even as her parents' fortunes decline, Ifemelu finds a seemingly ecstatic bond with Obinze. She calls him ''Ceiling'' because when they make love, she is too transported to see the ceiling before her eyes.
But Ifemelu is not cut out for contentment. ''Sometimes she worried that she was too happy,'' the book says of these early, lovestruck days. ''She would sink into moodiness, and snap at Obinze, or be distant. And her joy would become a restless thing, flapping its wings inside her, as though looking for an opening to fly away.''
Such flapping does not really endear Ifemelu to anybody, although she has a seemingly irresistible allure for African, American and African-American men. But when frustration with the Nigerian educational system and its campus strikes prompts her to go overseas, the book gets a hefty new infusion of topics for cultural critique. She struggles hard to make her way, and the book effectively dramatizes her economic plight; at one point she is all but driven to prostitution. But even in her bleakest moments, Ifemelu is astute about the new attitudes she encounters. ''America's tribalisms -- race, ideology and region -- became clear,'' Ms. Adichie writes. ''And she was consoled by her new knowledge.''
The blog bursts out of her, terrible name and all. It is called ''Raceteenth or Various Observations About American Blacks (Those Formerly Known as Negroes) by a Non-American Black.'' And the blog, like this book, is unafraid to take on taboo subjects, from the misguided reverence that some American blacks may hold for Mother Africa to the aforementioned obsession with how black women's hair ought to be treated. Ifemelu puts herself through all sorts of chemical misery, watches a white girl come into a salon wanting Bo Derek's cornrows, discovers that hair and employability are related, and even ponders the meaning of the Obamas' sartorial and tonsorial styles.
More dramatically, ''Americanah'' takes Obinze to London, where he does the lowest menial work, tries to enter into a sham marriage to an Englishwoman and watches Nigerian friends show off in ridiculously upscale British ways. One of the book's most funnily barbed moments involves ''the voodoo of fine dining'' to which Obinze is subjected by a friend's largess. (Obinze's burger arrives in a martini glass, to the sound of his host's crowing.) But Obinze's life abroad turns disastrous, and he must go back to Nigeria to find his way.
The first half of ''Americanah'' (the title refers to the newly Americanized Ifemelu) is tough-minded and clear. But Ms. Adichie disappointingly allows her story to slip to the level of a simple romance, leaving her readers to wonder, not very much, whether Ifemelu and Obinze will be reunited. The plot ultimately feels like an excuse for the venting of opinions -- and the opinions carry far more conviction than the storytelling does.
Ms. Adichie displays much keen critical intelligence about how we can unwittingly betray our truest selves. But if she has any real passion for the people in ''Americanah,'' she's done far too good a job of keeping it to herself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (PHOTOGRAPH BY IVARA ESEGE) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%); NIGERIA (91%); SENEGAL (69%); MALI (69%); AFRICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



631 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Telecom's Big Players Hold Back The Future

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
If you were going to look for ground zero in the fight against a rapidly consolidating telecom and cable industry, you might end up on the fifth floor of the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York.
Susan Crawford, a professor at the school, has written a book, ''Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in the New Gilded Age,'' that offers a calm but chilling state-of-play on the information age in the United States. She is on a permanent campaign, speaking at schools, conferences and companies -- she was at Google last week -- and in front of Congress, asserting that the status quo has been great for providers but an expensive mess for everyone else.
Ms. Crawford argues that the airwaves, the cable systems and even access to the Internet itself have been overtaken by monopolists who resist innovation and chronically overcharge consumers. 
The 1996 Telecommunications Act, which was meant to lay down track to foster competition in a new age, allowed cable companies and telecoms to simply divide markets and merge their way to monopoly. If you are looking for the answer to why much of the developed world has cheap, reliable connections to the Internet while America seems just one step ahead of the dial-up era, her office -- or her book -- would be a good place to find out.
In a recent conversation, she explained that wired and wireless connections, building blocks of modern life, are now essentially controlled by four companies. Comcast and Time Warner have a complete lock on broadband in the markets they control, covering some 50 million American homes, while Verizon and AT&T own 64 percent of cellphone service. Don't get her started on the Comcast-NBCUniversal merger unless you have some time on your hands.
But don't look for a jeremiad, either. A violist who plays in string quartets when she is not hammering telecom companies, Ms. Crawford is precise in her arguments and far from frantic in making them. The captains of industry who kidnapped telecoms and cable are not monsters, she says, merely shrewd capitalists who used leverage to maximize returns, no different or worse than the railroad or electricity barons of times past.
''They have acted in parallel to exclude competitors and used every lever they had to gain control over their markets. My whole book is essentially an argument to buy stock in cable companies,'' she said with a laugh.
Her arguments don't end there. High-capacity fiber connections to homes and businesses are not just a social good, but a business imperative, she says, and the lack of them will cripple American efforts to compete in a global economy.
Ms. Crawford said she believed that cities and states should take back control of their information infrastructure before it is too late. Already, 19 states have bent to the lobbying influence of established players and raised barriers to the public-private partnerships that would compete with legacy companies.
Verizon had been building out fiber optic cable networks -- expensive to create but a dream to use -- that were part of the competition envisioned by the telecommunications act. But in 2010, the company decided that it was a capital-intensive effort that offered less return than high-margin wireless, so it stopped expanding when just 14 percent of American homes have access to their fiber optic network.
Too bad, that. I have Verizon's service, and even though it is expensive, it is fundamentally superior to Internet via cable because fiber can carry unlimited data, which means smooth downloading and streaming.
In 2012, Verizon entered into a joint marketing agreement with the cable companies, blessed by the Federal Communications Commission, so the former competitors are now firm allies.
''There has been a division of, 'You take the wires, we'll take wireless,' which means that there is very little competition and investment, and very little access to high-speed connections,'' Ms. Crawford said. It is worth pointing out that the billionaire Carlos Slim Helú controls 80 percent of the landlines in Mexico and 70 percent of the wireless market there. His recent appearance at the New York Public Library was accompanied by protests that his outsize presence was hurting consumers in Mexico. (Mr. Slim holds a minority stake in The New York Times Company.)
While consumers love to complain about their cable companies and Internet service, it's sort of like the weather -- no one does anything about it because no one can. And then there is Ms. Crawford. The New Republic recently called her ''the next Elizabeth Warren,'' suggesting that, just as Ms. Warren had been to the banking sector, Ms. Crawford ''has become a dreaded figure to the industry she wants to reform.''
There are signs her argument is gaining traction. In March, the Georgia House of Representatives voted down a proposal that would have prevented cities from investing in their own Internet-access networks.
And she is hardly a lone gadfly shouting against the wind. When the F.C.C. chairmanship came open recently, petitions sprang up all over the Web, suggesting that President Obama select Ms. Crawford in an effort to return consumer fairness and balance to regulatory matters.
Instead, the president has nominated a venture capitalist and former chief lobbyist for the telecommunications industry, Tom Wheeler. As Politico reported, Mr. Wheeler will have to divest himself of a large portfolio of industry holdings in order to take the job. Perhaps that shedding of assets will help him in his transition to an advocate for American consumers stung by hefty Internet, cable and wireless costs.
Ms. Crawford says that Mr. Wheeler is smart and may well do a good job. But Mr. Wheeler may have more than disgruntled consumers to deal with. American business is increasingly stuck with the same creaky, expensive connections while competitors from South Korea, France and other countries are getting much faster speeds at much lower costs.
On Friday, Ms. Crawford was fresh off a visit to Santa Monica, Calif., which is building out its own high-speed infrastructure.
''People there told me that incoming businesses care more about access to fiber than any other attribute in a building,'' she said in a phone call. ''It's very much like electricity. They want reliable service at a reliable cost.''
She suggests that because broadband providers are often working inside protected monopolies, there is no incentive for expensive upgrades that would lead to a modern, wired version of America.
Postmerger, Comcast has a large content business in the form of NBC, so any potential competitor realizes that it is going up against a company with control over precious cable and sports programming assets. And because telecoms and cable companies have done a great job of developing relationships in Washington -- as a business, it is more generous in terms of donations than the banking industry -- there is little pressure from politicians or regulators.
Ms. Crawford, with a smile on her face, says the outlook is grim.
''We are in this position as a country because we assumed that the magic of the marketplace would provide competition and provide world-class communications,'' she said. ''But history has demonstrated that left to their own devices, companies will gouge the rich, leave out the poor, cherry-pick markets and focus solely on their profits. It isn't evil, it's just the way things work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susan Crawford, a law professor, contends that the telecom and cable industries have been taken over by monopolists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); BROADBAND (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (62%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



632 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Stockholder Power Faces Test at Chase

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon and the 10 other directors of JPMorgan Chase take the stage in Tampa, Fla., on Tuesday, to face shareholders who can take comfort in a rising stock price and a prospering bank.
But those same shareholders may also deliver a humbling rebuff to Mr. Dimon and the bank's board.
If shareholders vote to separate the jobs of chairman and chief executive -- positions that Mr. Dimon has held since 2006 -- it would signal a shift in the balance of power in corporate America, an inflection point in shareholders' push for greater say in the boardroom.
Shareholder protests at large companies are usually successful only at those that are troubled or whose stock price has disappointed. 
But JPMorgan, even after suffering a multibillion-dollar trading loss that exposed weak risk controls and spurred federal investigations, is minting profits quarter after quarter. And its stock price is up 19 percent this year.
A victory against a bank that prides itself on its ''fortress balance sheet'' would go a long way toward proving that shareholders can push for changes even at strong companies.
''It's a fascinating moment in the arc of corporate governance, where shareholders are poised to get a lot of power,'' said Charles M. Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.
Raising the stakes, of course, is the presence of Mr. Dimon, the brash chief executive who successfully piloted JPMorgan through the tumultuous 2008 financial crisis. For better or for worse, Mr. Dimon, 57, has come to epitomize the American banker atop an institution that is too big to fail.
If JPMorgan shareholders reject the proposal -- which would not require the bank to act in any case -- it will be a powerful endorsement of Mr. Dimon and his leadership.
In addition, it will help JPMorgan, which has been aggressively working behind the scenes to avert defeat, to move beyond the fallout from the trading loss.
Regardless of the outcome of the fight, it is likely that the JPMorgan board will make some changes, possibly by shaking up its risk committee or giving its lead director greater power.
Last week, shareholder groups sponsoring the split were cut off from crucial preliminary vote tallies by the firm that provides them, causing the sponsors to cry foul.
New York State's attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, late on Friday sent a letter to Stephen M. Cutler, JPMorgan's general counsel, that raised serious concerns about why the tallies were cut off, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.
After a series of conference calls on Saturday between lawyers for JPMorgan and the attorney general's office, JPMorgan agreed to direct a firm that provides early tabulations to restart the tallies.
For investors who argue that an independent chairman is a vital counterbalance to a chief executive, defeat of the resolution would be a significant setback.
After receiving the backing of 40 percent of shares for a similar proposal last year, a small group of JPMorgan shareholders was emboldened to introduce a new resolution in February.
Since then, support for splitting the positions has grown, stoked in part by revelations of JPMorgan's continued regulatory missteps.
A Senate hearing and a 300-page report on the multibillion-dollar trading loss at the bank's chief investment office in London last year accused the bank of misleading investors and regulators about the botched trades.
In addition to the investigations into the trading losses, there have been inquiries into whether JPMorgan failed to fully alert authorities to suspicions about Bernard L. Madoff and into the bank's trading practices in two electricity markets.
In January, one of its primary regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, took an enforcement action against the bank over weak controls against money laundering, faulting JPMorgan for failing to report suspicious flows of money.
Now, the agency is considering fresh enforcement actions against JPMorgan over the way the bank goes after customers for overdue credit card bills. All told, at least eight federal agencies are investigating the bank.
The regulatory tangle puts Mr. Dimon and JPMorgan, which used to hold special sway in Washington, in a tough position.
Even Mr. Dimon's contrite tone -- he apologized in a recent letter to shareholders for letting ''our regulators down'' and pledging to ''do all the work necessary to complete the needed improvements'' -- hasn't seemed to slow the effort by shareholders supporting the proposal for an independent chairman.
A steady stream of departures from JPMorgan's upper ranks has also proved to be a boost for the shareholders pushing for a split. The most recent high-level departure came in April, when Frank J. Bisignano, JPMorgan's co-chief operating officer and an executive hailed within the bank as an operational wizard, left to become chief executive of the First Data Corporation.
Some executives have been driven out by the trading loss, while others have simply departed. The outcome, though, is the same. Mr. Dimon's inner circle, the group of lieutenants that helped him steer the bank through the financial crisis, has been significantly winnowed down: only three remain from the crisis era.
Even as Mr. Dimon has taken an apologetic tone with regulators, he continues to emphasize JPMorgan's strength and the qualities of its upper management, according to investors who have met with him in recent weeks.
The board, however, may decide that changes are needed, and move to overhaul its risk policy committee. Led by Lee R. Raymond, a former chief executive of Exxon Mobil who acts as the lead director, the board has so far fended off calls from major investors for such a shake-up.
But those calls gained strength when an influential shareholder advisory firm, Institutional Shareholder Services, or I.S.S., urged shareholders to withhold support for three directors who serve on the risk policy committee -- David M. Cote, James S. Crown and Ellen V. Futter.
The directors, I.S.S. said in a report released this month, ''lack robust industry-specific experience'' and the mishaps that have accumulated during the last year have only ''demonstrated their unsuitability.''
JPMorgan and Mr. Raymond have vigorously defended the three directors, noting that they had served on the risk committee when the bank navigated through the financial crisis. In a previous statement about the losses in its chief investment office, JPMorgan said: ''While the company has acknowledged a number of mistakes relating to its losses in C.I.O., an independent review committee of the board determined that those mistakes were not attributable to the risk committee.''
Still, the recommendation from I.S.S. held particular force, some investors say, because the advisory firm noted in its report that it opposed directors only in ''extraordinary circumstances.''
It is also possible the board will move to bolster the powers of Mr. Raymond, as Goldman did with its lead director this year. This will assuage some shareholders seeking a stronger counterbalance to Mr. Dimon and could take some of the air out of any attempts next year to split the roles.
''You have to do something to appease shareholders,'' said a person close to the board. ''Otherwise there will be more trouble down the road.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Dimon was apologetic in a recent letter to shareholders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAWYERS (85%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



633 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Seized Chinese Boat

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China revealed on Sunday that North Korea seized a Chinese fishing boat this month and detained its crewmen, who remain in custody, an episode likely to worsen recent discord between the two. 
The vessel's owner, Yu Xuejun, called the Chinese Embassy in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, on May 10 to seek help, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a brief statement issued through Sina Weibo, the country's Twitter-like microblog service. Mr. Yu was not on the boat when it was seized.
''The embassy immediately made representations to the consular affairs bureau of the North Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs, asking that North Korea release the vessel and the crew as soon as possible, and ensure the safety of the lives and property of the detained crew, as well as their legitimate rights,'' the Chinese ministry statement said.
The statement did not explain why the ministry waited so long to reveal the seizure, which came during a time of tensions with North Korea, a country that depends on Beijing for diplomatic and economic support.
The announcement promptly drew an outcry from Chinese media and citizens online, some of whom have already expressed increasing impatience with North Korea over its nuclear ambitions and threats to the region.
The Chinese media reports said the boat was seized on May 5, with 16 men onboard, and North Korean authorities demanded payment of 600,000 renminbi, equal to about $98,000, to release them and the vessel, apparently on the grounds that it was fishing in waters claimed by North Korea. The deadline for payment was Sunday, The Beijing Times newspaper said.
China has long supported North Korea, despite disagreement over the North's nuclear activities, and many Chinese experts see the North as a strategic bulwark against potential regional domination by the United States and its allies, South Korea and Japan. But in recent months, undercurrents of discord have seeped into the two countries' relations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



634 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Hackers Resume Attacks On U.S. Targets

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Three months after hackers working for a cyberunit of China's People's Liberation Army went silent amid evidence that they had stolen data from scores of American companies and government agencies, they appear to have resumed their attacks using different techniques, according to computer industry security experts and American officials.
The Obama administration had bet that ''naming and shaming'' the groups, first in industry reports and then in the Pentagon's own detailed survey of Chinese military capabilities, might prompt China's new leadership to crack down on the military's highly organized team of hackers -- or at least urge them to become more subtle.
But Unit 61398, whose well-guarded 12-story white headquarters on the edges of Shanghai became the symbol of Chinese cyberpower, is back in business, according to American officials and security companies. 
It is not clear precisely who has been affected by the latest attacks. Mandiant, a private security company that helps companies and government agencies defend themselves from hackers, said the attacks had resumed but would not identify the targets, citing agreements with its clients. But it did say the victims were many of the same ones the unit had attacked before.
The hackers were behind scores of thefts of intellectual property and government documents over the past five years, according to a report by Mandiant in February that was confirmed by American officials. They have stolen product blueprints, manufacturing plans, clinical trial results, pricing documents, negotiation strategies and other proprietary information from more than 100 of Mandiant's clients, predominantly in the United States.
According to security experts, the cyberunit was responsible for a 2009 attack on the Coca-Cola Company that coincided with its failed attempt to acquire the China Huiyuan Juice Group. In 2011, it attacked RSA, a maker of data security products used by American government agencies and defense contractors, and used the information it collected from that attack to break into the computer systems of Lockheed Martin, the aerospace contractor.
More recently, security experts said, the group took aim at companies with access to the nation's power grid. Last September, it broke into the Canadian arm of Telvent, now Schneider Electric, which keeps detailed blueprints on more than half the oil and gas pipelines in North America.
Representatives of Coca-Cola and Schneider Electric did not return requests for comment on Sunday. A Lockheed Martin spokesman said the company declined to comment.
In interviews, Obama administration officials said they were not surprised by the resumption of the hacking activity. One senior official said Friday that ''this is something we are going to have to come back at time and again with the Chinese leadership,'' who, he said, ''have to be convinced there is a real cost to this kind of activity.''
Mandiant said that the Chinese hackers had stopped their attacks after they were exposed in February and removed their spying tools from the organizations they had infiltrated. But over the past two months, they have gradually begun attacking the same victims from new servers and have reinserted many of the tools that enable them to seek out data without detection. They are now operating at 60 percent to 70 percent of the level they were working at before, according to a study by Mandiant requested by The New York Times.
The Times hired Mandiant to investigate an attack that originated in China on its news operations last fall. Mandiant is not currently working for The New York Times Company.
Mandiant's findings match those of Crowdstrike, another security company that has also been tracking the group. Adam Meyers, director of intelligence at Crowdstrike, said that apart from a few minor changes in tactics, it was ''business as usual'' for the Chinese hackers.
The subject of Chinese attacks is expected to be a central issue in an upcoming visit to China by President Obama's national security adviser, Thomas Donilon, who has said that dealing with China's actions in cyberspace is now moving to the center of the complex security and economic relationship between the two countries.
But hopes for progress on the issue are limited. When the Pentagon released its report this month officially identifying the Chinese military as the source of years of attacks, the Chinese Foreign Ministry denied the accusation, and People's Daily, which reflects the views of the Communist Party, called the United States ''the real 'hacking empire,' '' saying it ''has continued to strengthen its network tools for political subversion against other countries.'' Other Chinese organizations and scholars cited American and Israeli cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear facilities as evidence of American hypocrisy.
At the White House, Caitlin Hayden, the spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said Sunday that ''what we have been seeking from China is for it to investigate our concerns and to start a dialogue with us on cyberissues.'' She noted that China ''agreed last month to start a new working group,'' and that the administration hoped to win ''longer-term changes in China's behavior, including by working together to establish norms against the theft of trade secrets and confidential business information.''
In a report to be issued Wednesday, a private task force led by Mr. Obama's former director of national intelligence, Dennis C. Blair, and his former ambassador to China, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., lays out a series of proposed executive actions and Congressional legislation intended to raise the stakes for China.
''Jawboning alone won't work,'' Mr. Blair said Saturday. ''Something has to change China's calculus.''
The exposure of Unit 61398's actions, which have long been well known to American intelligence agencies, did not accomplish that task.
One day after Mandiant and the United States government revealed the P.L.A. unit as the culprit behind hundreds of attacks on agencies and companies, the unit began a haphazard cleanup operation, Mandiant said.
Attack tools were unplugged from victims' systems. Command and control servers went silent. And of the 3,000 technical indicators Mandiant identified in its initial report, only a sliver kept operating. Some of the unit's most visible operatives, hackers with names like ''DOTA,'' ''SuperHard'' and ''UglyGorilla,'' disappeared, as cybersleuths scoured the Internet for clues to their real identities.
In the case of UglyGorilla, Web sleuths found digital evidence that linked him to a Chinese national named Wang Dong, who kept a blog about his experience as a P.L.A. hacker from 2006 to 2009, in which he lamented his low pay, long hours and instant ramen meals.
But in the weeks that followed, the group picked up where it had left off. From its Shanghai headquarters, the unit's hackers set up new beachheads from compromised computers all over the world, many of them small Internet service providers and mom-and-pop shops whose owners do not realize that by failing to rigorously apply software patches for known threats, they are enabling state-sponsored espionage.
''They dialed it back for a little while, though other groups that also wear uniforms didn't even bother to do that,'' Kevin Mandia, the chief executive of Mandiant, said in an interview on Friday. ''I think you have to view this as the new normal.''
The hackers now use the same malicious software they used to break into the same organizations in the past, only with minor modifications to the code.
While American officials and corporate executives say they are trying to persuade President Xi Jinping's government that a pattern of theft by the P.L.A. will damage China's growth prospects -- and the willingness of companies to invest in China -- their longer-term concern is that China may be trying to establish a new set of rules for Internet commerce, with more censorship and fewer penalties for the theft of intellectual property.
Eric Schmidt, the chairman of Google, said Friday that while there was evidence that inside China many citizens are using the Web to pressure the government to clean up industrial hazards or to complain about corruption, ''so far there is no positive data on China's dealings with the rest of the world'' on cyberissues.
Google largely pulled out of China after repeated attacks on its systems in 2009 and 2010, and now has its Chinese operations in Hong Kong. But it remains, Mr. Schmidt said, a constant target for Chinese cyberattackers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The headquarters of Unit 61398, center, in Shanghai. The unit of the People's Liberation Army is believed to have resumed its attacks on American companies and government agencies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (86%); DATA SECURITY (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); PROPERTY CRIMES (72%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); INTERVIEWS (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (51%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (81%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (53%); CHINA HUIYUAN JUICE GROUP LTD (53%); SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC SA (52%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (81%); LMT (NYSE) (53%); 1886 (HKSE) (53%); SU (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (81%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (53%); NAICS335313 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3613 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS (52%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



635 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Back From War, Columbia Slugger Is Dreaming of the Major Leagues

BYLINE: By TOM PEDULLA

 BODY:
Joey Falcone, a slugger for Columbia, knows what to do when he finds himself pressing at the plate. He eases his grip on the bat, takes a deep breath and assumes a more relaxed stance.
Falcone has a harder time finding himself in life. After serving two tours of duty in Iraq and one in Afghanistan as a Marine Corps medic, and after hitting .336 with 5 homers and 25 runs batted in this season to help the Lions earn their third N.C.A.A. tournament berth, he is struggling to determine his career path.
Falcone, who will turn 27 on June 1, has two more years of eligibility and yearns to pursue a major league career the way his father, Pete, did. Pete Falcone, a left-hander from Brooklyn, went 70-90 with a 4.07 earned run average from 1975 to 1984 with the San Francisco Giants, the St. Louis Cardinals, the Mets and the Atlanta Braves. 
But Joey Falcone cannot help but remind himself that he is the oldest player in Division I.
''I haven't given up on it, no sir,'' he said. ''But I also know I'm very old.''
Falcone, a 6-foot-5, 225-pound, left-handed designated hitter, posted a team-leading .536 slugging percentage as Columbia (26-19) set a university record for Ivy League victories, going 16-4 in league play. Falcone went 6 for 9 as Columbia swept two games against Dartmouth to win the Ivy League Championship Series.
Not bad for someone who joined the team on a tryout basis in the fall after transferring from the College of Staten Island.
He began this season as a pinch-hitter, and Coach Brett Boretti said he was concerned about how Falcone would fit.
''I was not sure how that would unfold,'' Boretti said. ''But Joey is very down to earth. He loves playing baseball.''
Despite his life experience, Falcone said he was ''26 going on 19.'' Nick Ferraresi, 22, a senior co-captain, described him as a ''little kid in a big body.''
Ferraresi added: ''Even though he is a first-year player, he caught on as a leader because of his work ethic. People respect him for everything he's gone through.''
Falcone was undersize through most of his time as a right fielder at Bolton High School in Alexandria, La. He said he lost interest in his studies and did not distinguish himself on the field.
He did not draw interest from college baseball programs. Thinking he had few options, he joined the military in 2004.
''Why did I enlist?'' he said. ''I was too stupid to realize it was a big decision.''
After being trained as a medic, he served in Iraq in 2007 and 2008 and was sent to Afghanistan in 2009. He was discharged July 1, 2010.
''It was nasty business,'' he said. ''You see stuff you don't want to exist, people getting caught in the middle of it, and a lot of time, it's kids.''
Falcone said it was difficult for him to aid children. ''All of my equipment was for adults,'' he said. ''Whenever a kid got wounded, I would try to improvise because everything was smaller. Their limbs are smaller. Airways smaller. Smaller organs.''
He described, without emotion, color codes used to determine how much medical attention victims received before they were evacuated.
''Black is the bottom priority,'' he said. ''They are pretty dead.''
Falcone said squad leaders and medics were treated as prime targets by opposition forces. He worried that his size worked against him.
Everyone was frightened, he said, but ''I was so afraid of not coming through when I was needed to do my job that fear of failure trumped being scared.''
He never questioned the worthiness of the cause. ''I was too involved to know or think about something like that,'' he said.
Falcone said thoughts of returning to baseball filled his mind toward the end of his military duty. ''My desire to play and give it a shot never left me,'' he said, ''and I was confused about why it never left me.''
He enrolled at the College of Staten Island to return to competition while pursuing a nursing career. At Columbia, he is an economics major with a concentration in mathematics, but he said that could change.
He said of his demanding studies, ''I live with worry.''
His parents, Pete and Diane, urge him to worry less and enjoy the game, wherever it leads him. Falcone and his teammates will learn their first-round tournament opponent next Monday.
''It's a part of his life he needs to fulfill,'' Pete Falcone said. ''I'm hoping he takes it as far as he can.''
His son does not seem sure. Despite his potential, he constantly hears the ticking of the clock.
''I don't want to lie and say the dream isn't there,'' he said. ''But, at the same time, perspective.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joey Falcone with his father, Pete, a former pitcher. Joey, top right, who served as a Marine Corps medic, hit .336 this season. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOEY FALCONE
 ALEX OBERWENGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ETHICS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); ALEXANDRIA, LA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (56%); LOUISIANA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (91%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



636 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: The Day The Music Died In Mali

BYLINE: By SUJATHA FERNANDES. 
Sujatha Fernandes is an associate professor of sociology at Queens College and the Graduate Center, City University of New York, and the author of ''Close to the Edge: In Search of the Global Hip Hop Generation.''

 BODY:
EVERYONE has heard of censored songs, like Billie Holiday's ''Love for Sale,'' which was banned from ABC radio in 1956 because of its prostitution theme. Most are familiar with the censorship of artists, like the Dixie Chicks, who had their music blacklisted from country music stations across the country after they criticized President George W. Bush. But banning music in its entirety?
It has been almost nine months since Islamic militants in northern Mali announced that they were effectively banning all music. It's hard to imagine, in a country that produced such internationally renowned music as Ali Farka Touré's blues, Rokia Traoré's soulful vocals and the Afro-pop traditions of Salif Keita. 
The armed militants sent death threats to local musicians; many were forced into exile. Live music venues were shut down, and militants set fire to guitars and drum kits. The world famous Festival in the Desert was moved to Burkina Faso, and then postponed because of the security risk.
While French and Malian forces largely swept the militants from Timbuktu and other northern towns early this year, the region is still a battleground. Cultural venues remain shuttered. Even more musicians in the north are now leaving the country because they fear vengeful acts by the Malian Army, whom they accuse of discriminating against northern peoples. The music has not returned to what it once was.
There are many theories for the reasons behind the music ban. Some point to religious fanaticism that sees music as a distraction from single-minded devotion. Others suggest that the ban was an attempt to sabotage the economy by gutting one of Mali's primary export industries. Perhaps the militants, who cut off the hands of thieves and whip those who drink alcohol, just wanted to terrorize people.
Regardless, the ban -- like banning the air we breathe, some Malians have said -- can tell us something about the nature of music itself as the essence of our social bonds and a bulwark against unfettered use of power.
Musicians are present in many of the rituals of daily life in Mali. The traditional praise singers known as griots sing and play at weddings, birth ceremonies and funerals. But their role is not just to provide background entertainment. Yacouba Sissoko, a Malian griot known for his mastery of the ngoni, a stringed instrument, and the ''talking drum,'' which mimics human speech, told me that the griot is a ''person who creates cohesion between people, a kind of cement in Malian society.'' Music is a language that communicates what we cannot always say in words; it assures us of our interconnection.
A world without music is also a world without stories. The griots have functioned as storytellers and truth-tellers within West African society for centuries. In addition to mediating disputes and acting as advisers to early rulers, griots were oral historians. They knew regional legends and family histories, and through their music those stories were passed down from one generation to the next. Like the ancient manuscripts that militants tried to burn in a Timbuktu library in January, today's griots are repositories of history. If they lose their social function as storytellers, society loses a critical link to its past.
This is especially true in Mali, where high rates of illiteracy mean that music -- rather than newspapers or books -- is a prime means of sharing information. Malian hip-hop artists in particular have tried to use their music to raise awareness about social issues. The Malian rapper Amkoullel addresses education in his song ''Teaching, Studies,'' rapping in both French and his local dialect, Bamanan. He rails against corruption in the school system: ''A place to teach should not to be confused with a place to do business,'' and inequality: ''Private schools, so well equipped/Public education, neglected/The poor have no choice.''
Even before the militant takeover of the north last year, Amkoullel warned of the dire situation in the country in a song called S.O.S.: ''The people rage /Their dreams are being killed /They no longer know in what to believe.'' He formed an association called Plus Jamais Ça, or Never Again. Other musicians have also been coming together to call for an end to the conflict. In January, the singer Fatoumata Diawara brought together more than 40 musicians in Bamako, the capital, to record a peace song that showcased the extraordinary diversity and artistry of Malian music. Addressing themselves to military leaders and politicians, the musicians sing: ''We must take care now, or our children will never know the real story of our country. We might lose it.''
One thing that the events in Mali have taught us is that music matters. And the potential loss of music as a means of social bonding, as a voice of conscience and as a mode of storytelling is not just a threat in an African country where Islamic militants made music a punishable offense. We would do well to appreciate music's power, wherever we live.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); RELIGION (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



637 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: William M. Fine, 86; Helped Shape Drug Laws

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
William M. Fine, a former magazine publisher and retailer whose research for Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller helped shape New York State's stringent narcotics laws, died on Friday in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 86.
The cause was multiple atrophy syndrome, his daughter-in-law, Delia, said.
In the 1960s, Mr. Fine was the publisher of a dozen magazines for the Hearst Corporation, including Harper's Bazaar, Cosmopolitan and Town & Country. As president of Bonwit Teller from 1969 to 1975, he commanded national attention for vigorously, but unsuccessfully, promoting more modest skirt lengths to women still enamored with the miniskirt. 
In the presidential administrations of Ronald Reagan and the elder George Bush, Mr. Fine was an adviser to the State Department for the international fund to boost economic development in Northern Ireland as part of establishing peace there. The Irish Times in 2002 praised him as one of the five people most responsible for reaching a tentative peace among Ireland, Northern Ireland and Britain. The others were the Northern Ireland politicians John Hume and David Trimble; Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain; and Tom King, Britain's secretary for Northern Ireland.
His biggest impact on history resulted from a dinner party conversation with Rockefeller in early 1972, according to Joseph E. Persico, a former Rockefeller aide, in his book ''Imperial Rockefeller'' (1982).
At that party, Mr. Persico wrote, Mr. Fine told Rockefeller that his son had been a drug addict and that he himself yearned to do something to fight addiction. He was already chairman of Phoenix House, a drug rehabilitation program.
Rockefeller suggested that Mr. Fine visit Japan, where there was very little addiction, and report to him. Rockefeller focused on one aspect of Mr. Fine's report: Japan's imposition of life sentences on drug dealers.
Mr. Fine praised the Japanese for being ''willing to give up the soapbox movement on human rights in order to rid the public of the evil abuses of drugs.''
This hard-nosed approach appealed to the governor, who was receiving much mail questioning whether the civil liberties of criminals were taking precedence over the prosecution of drug dealers. Rockefeller had also expressed frustration that New York had spent more than $1 billion on drug treatment and education programs, with little apparent effect.
There was a political aspect to his stance as well. At another party, Mr. Fine had a conversation with Mr. Reagan, then the governor of California. Mr. Reagan -- who like Rockefeller was considering a run for the presidency in 1976 -- was intrigued to hear about Mr. Fine's report and asked for a copy. Mr. Fine asked Rockefeller, who was also at the party, if he would mind sharing the report with Mr. Reagan. Rockefeller refused.
''This thunderbolt,'' Mr. Persico wrote of Rockefeller, ''was to be hurled by him.''
On May 8, 1973, Rockefeller signed legislation mandating minimum prison sentences of 15 years for selling two ounces or possessing four ounces of heroin, cocaine or marijuana. The legislation was the toughest in the country, and increased the state's prison population 500 percent over the next 20 years.
In recent years, the so-called Rockefeller drug laws have been relaxed after it was determined that they did not decrease drug use and that they crowded prisons with small-time dealers and users, who are overwhelmingly minorities.
William Michael Fine was born in Manhattan on July 1, 1926, to Joseph George Fine and the former Suzanne Moss. He grew up in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles. His father was the president of the Fox Film Corporation before it merged with 20th Century Pictures.
Mr. Fine was an Army infantryman in Europe during World War II and won a Bronze Star. He majored in speech at Kenyon College in Ohio and graduated in 1950.
He started his publishing career by buying two Westchester County newspapers, The Tuckahoe Record and The Bronxville Reporter. He moved on to the McCall Corporation, publisher of McCall's and Redbook, and joined the Hearst Corporation in 1957.
At Bonwit Teller in 1970, convinced that the midi-skirt would be successful, he ordered that 95 percent of the store's fall fashions be midlength. He even ordered his saleswomen to wear the style. But it flopped.
Mr. Fine went on to lead several other companies, including Wamsutta Mills and Dan River Mills, and to work as a business consultant and investor. He also wrote or edited several books, including ''That Day With God,'' a collection of sermons preached the Sunday after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated.
Mr. Fine's marriages to Patricia Purdy, Susan Payson and Rosaleen Garvey ended in divorce. He is survived by his longtime partner, Kay Pick; his sons, B. William, Douglas, Timothy and Adam; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. Another son, Alexander, died in 2004.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William M. Fine, shown in 1970, was the president of Bonwit Teller and a magazine publisher for the Hearst Corporation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM E. SAURO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); SENTENCING (62%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



638 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DESIGN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Pleasurable Design

BYLINE: By ALICE RAWSTHORN

 BODY:
LONDON -- One of the most entertaining accounts of a designer's career is ''Industrial Design,'' the memoirs of Raymond Loewy, who arrived in the United States as a French army veteran with $50 in 1919 and became the first industrial designer to appear on the cover of Time magazine. In the book, he identifies the purpose of design as being to keep ''the customer happy, his clients in the black and the designer busy.''
Times change. Not that there is anything wrong with designers being busy or helping their clients to turn a profit, but what about their social and environmental responsibilities? Or design's importance in interpreting advances in science and technology to our advantage? Nor is it acceptable to assume, as Loewy clearly did, that a designer's clients will be ''his,'' when they are equally likely to be ''her's.'' 
But Loewy's first assertion still rings true: design's role in making us ''happy.'' He meant it in the old-fashioned sense of designing things that give people pleasure, by being appealing to look at, or fun to use, but the word is versatile enough to encompass other interpretations too. How can design make anyone happy if it damages the environment, or translates a thrilling scientific breakthrough into something destructive? Here are some of my favorite examples of recent design projects that achieve Loewy's goal by making us happy both in the old sense, and the new.
Pleasing us Let's start with a couple of familiar objects whose design is pleasurable in a traditional way. First, the book of drawings by the French brothers Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec, which accompanies the retrospective of their work in product design running through Sept. 1 at Musée des Arts Décoratifs in Paris.
Both Bouroullecs draw compulsively, filling sketchbooks with everything from playful scribbles to detailed studies of specific products. They gave the Swiss graphic designer Cornel Windlin carte blanche to turn them into a book. The result looks and feels delightful, from the aplomb with which each drawing is positioned on its respective page, to the sequencing of the images and the silky texture of the paper.
The same can be said of the wooden and leather armchair developed by the Dutch designer Dick Van Hoff for Thomas Eyck, which was introduced at the Milan Furniture Fair last month. At first glance, it appears clumsy, almost ugly, but the longer you look, the subtler and more refined it seems. Critically, the chair is so comfortable to sit on, you feel calm and contemplative. ''When we're under pressure, our natural reaction is to speed up, but sometimes it's better to slow down,'' Mr. Van Hoff said. ''We all need moments to reflect, and that's what this is for.''
Entertaining us Now for a new area of design: data visualization, which helps us to make sense of huge quantities of complex information by distilling it into clear, compelling digital images. Typically visualizations are used to explain portentous economic or political changes, but they can also entertain us. A great example is ''Where have all the wildings gone?'' -- a Web site devoted to the deliciously silly television series ''Game of Thrones.'' Devised by the graphic designer Nigel Evan Dennis as a personal tribute to the show, the site uses color coding and symbolism to trace the complex allegiances between the characters so ingeniously, that deciphering it is nearly as much fun as watching the Starks and their wolves battle their foes on the screen.
Surprising us A time honored way for design to make us happy is by reinterpreting things in unexpectedly pleasing forms. Take the seed packets designed by Masaki Miwa and Abäke for an East London community group, the Friends of Arnold Circus. Sold to raise money to maintain the Arnold Circus garden, the packets contain seeds gathered from the hollyhocks that grow there. The first surprise is their octagonal shape, and the second that it is made by using an origami technique to fold a large piece of paper, bearing a print of the seeds made for the Friends by a local artist, Rachel Whiteread. The third surprise is that the packets are models of design locavorism. Not only are the designers and artist local, so are the volunteers who folded the paper, many of them children from a nearby school, and the printer.
Another pleasant surprise is Phases, a series of vases produced by the Dutch designer Jeroen Wand as part of his research into the possibilities of making objects from plaster. They are made by casting plaster in a mould and allowing it to dry into a solid form before immersing it in liquid plaster, which forms a rugged, irregular surface, the precise nature of which is always a something of a surprise. ''There's always a mixture of being in control and letting the material act freely,'' Mr. Wand said. ''You never really know what the end result might be.''
Astonishing us Occasionally design achieves something so unusual that it astonishes, rather than surprises. A promising source of such innovation is the new genre of digital production technologies, like 3D printing, which manufactures objects so speedily and accurately that each one can be made individually, and even customized, on a nearby 3D printer rather than in a factory. Not that the outcome is always positive, as illustrated by the recent storm over the gun made on an $8,000 3D printer in Texas.
A more appealing example of 3D printing is Collagene, a bespoke mask developed by Do the Mutation, an Italian design group founded by Filippo Nassetti and Alessandro Zomparelli. After scanning your face using the sensors of a Microsoft Kinect games device, you produce the mask on a 3D printer using a black polyamide-based material made by the CRP Group in Italy. The result resembles an intricate tangle of twigs that fits your face perfectly, making you feel very strange, but happily so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



639 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Tech Industry Pushes to Amend Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The technology industry got much of what it wanted in a bill that overhauls federal immigration law.
But in the give-and-take of political bargaining, the legislation emerged with some provisions the industry considers unappealing. Now its lobbyists are feverishly working to get rid of them.
Whether it gets its way could shape, in part, the fate of the overall package -- and with it, the fate of millions of migrants to this country.
The industry achieved its main goals in the draft Senate bill: an easing of the green card process and an expansion of the number of skilled guest worker visas. That draft, though, includes language that it considers excessive regulatory oversight of when a company can hire a temporary foreign worker and lay off an existing American worker. 
Executives from Silicon Valley companies say such language would effectively keep them from using the larger numbers of temporary work permits, known as H-1B visas. They also warn of more jobs being shipped overseas. They are backing proposed amendments that would reverse those provisions.
''The amendments are very important because they allow high-tech companies to use the visas as intended rather than creating regulations that make it so difficult they cannot practically be used,'' the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, which includes I.B.M. and Oracle, said in an e-mailed statement on Friday. It added that most technology companies already hire a preponderance of American workers.
''Companies are willing to show they have tried to hire Americans, but we want to do it in a way that works with their current hiring practices and does not place a heavy administrative burden on them,'' the statement continued. ''The more difficult it is to get H-1B visas, the more likely that jobs will go abroad because there is no American that fits the needed skill set.''
The industry has a powerful ally in Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah. His vote for the bill in the Judiciary Committee is coveted because it is expected to give the legislation crucial conservative support. He has filed several amendments that technology companies favor but that other senators, who insist on additional protections for American workers, have resisted.
Lawmakers were trying to work out compromise language on the bill before Monday, when the committee resumes its deliberations.
Silicon Valley has wasted no time in weighing in. Executives have called senators to press their case, industry lobbyists say. And those lobbyists have themselves been on hand when the committee has taken up their issues, ready to huddle with Senate aides during breaks.
As if to underscore the industry's concern in passing the bill, the secretary of homeland security, Janet Napolitano, traveled to San Francisco on Friday to discuss revamping the immigration law with technology executives.
Critics of Silicon Valley counter that its demands could imperil the overhaul as a whole, including the fate of millions of migrants who stand to gain legal papers.
How can the tech companies threaten to kill comprehensive legislation ''when it contains almost all they have said they wanted?'' said Bruce Morrison, a former chairman of the House immigration committee who now lobbies for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. ''All of America should lose the good the bill does so that they can fire Americans and replace them with H-1Bs? Ridiculous.''
The industry is unlikely to actively sabotage the bill if it does not get its way. It could, though, stop supporting the cause, as it has enthusiastically done this year. A well-financed group led by Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has backed television advertisements for Republicans who support the immigration overhaul. A ''virtual march'' is planned for Wednesday; the event is intended to mobilize tech employees to bombard Congress with automated messages in favor of the bill.
The draft bill makes it easier to sponsor foreign math and science graduates from United States universities for permanent residency. It creates a visa program for entrepreneurs. And it expands, to 110,000, from 65,000, the number of temporary workers allowed into the country every year on H-1B visas, in addition to several thousand more when there is additional demand for workers.
''Over all, tech has gotten, by any metric, the best bill they've ever seen on this issue in terms of H-1Bs,'' said an aide to the Judiciary Committee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because negotiations were continuing.
To assuage the concerns of American worker groups, like the one Mr. Morrison represents, lawmakers put a provision in the bill that raises minimum wages for guest workers, effectively making it tougher to use the temporary visas to drive down wages in the overall industry. Additionally, the draft makes it all but impossible for outsourcing companies, which are mostly Indian, to bring temporary workers to the United States -- leaving many more for companies based in the United States to recruit.
Technology sector lobbyists are generally pleased with the bill. But they are now objecting to language that requires employers to ensure that an ''equally qualified'' American is not available for a job opening before hiring a foreign temporary worker and allows the Labor Department to regulate. One lobbyist said that could put federal labor officials in the position of ''second-guessing hiring decisions.''
One of Mr. Hatch's amendments would tweak this language so that companies would have to follow only industry standards on hiring, effectively eliminating regulatory oversight.
Tech companies also object to language that would compel companies to show that they have not laid off an American employee 90 days before or after hiring a temporary foreign worker. The companies see this as bureaucratic interference. They support another amendment by Mr. Hatch that would require employers to state on paper that they have not replaced an American employee with a foreign guest worker.
The restrictions on hiring and firing, one industry lobbyist said, would make it difficult for companies to use the additional H-1B visas. ''The numbers mean nothing if you can't use them,'' said the lobbyist, who declined to be named because of the delicate political negotiations. ''The restrictions are so onerous and impose high-cost bureaucratic requirements that they carry too much risk. And if the better option is to hire foreign workers outside the U.S., they'll pursue it.''
Michael Moritz, chairman of the venture capital firm Sequoia Capital, said the industry was lobbying for policies that would buoy the United States economy as a whole. ''The message from Silicon Valley is about the future of America -- it's not about the hiring needs of a few technology companies,'' he said on Friday. ''America's place will be assured if we can continue to be the magnet for the smartest and most energetic young people from all over the world. We need to attract them to the U.S. and keep them here. There's a danger that this sentiment gets lost amidst all the mindless politicking.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Corley of Compete America, a coalition of technology companies, wants some language modified. Whether the industry gets its way could shape, in part, the fate of the overall package. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (78%); ORRIN HATCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



640 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Derivatives Reform on the Ropes

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
New rules to regulate derivatives, adopted last week by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, are a victory for Wall Street and a setback for financial reform. They may also signal worse things to come. 
The regulations, required under the Dodd-Frank reform law, are intended to impose transparency and competition on the notoriously opaque multitrillion-dollar market for derivatives, which is dominated by five banks: JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley.
In the run-up to the financial crisis -- and since -- the lack of transparency and competition has fostered recklessness and instability. But banks like opacity, because their outsized profits depend on keeping clients in the dark about what other clients pay in similar deals. Under the Dodd-Frank law, derivatives are supposed to be traded on ''swap execution facilities,'' which are to operate much like the exchanges that exist for equities and futures.
Even as the new rules shift much of the trading to those facilities, they will also preserve the ability of the banks to maintain their old practices.
For instance, the commission's initial proposal called for hedge funds, asset managers and corporations to contact at least five banks when seeking prices for a derivatives contract. In a major concession to the banks, that number was lowered to two in the final rule. Sometime in 2014, it is supposed to rise to three, but that would still be inadequate. Worse, there's always the risk that delayed rules will never go into effect.
The initial proposal also called for derivatives trading to take place on open electronic platforms. The final rules will allow much of the negotiation over derivative prices to take place over the phone, a practice that is difficult to monitor and prone to abuse.
By themselves, these new rules are not fatal to the overall reform effort. And they are the best that the commission's reform-minded chairman, Gary Gensler, could achieve at this time because of resistance to tougher standards by the agency's two Republican commissioners and by one of its Democratic commissioners, Mark Wetjen.
The problem now is that Mr. Gensler's term has officially ended, and he is expected to leave the agency at the end of the year. Given Wall Street's incessant lobbying and powerful presence in Washington, it is assumed that he will be replaced by a chairman who is friendlier to Wall Street. That bodes ill for rules that have started out weak and need to be shored up later. To lose a reformer would also reflect poorly on President Obama, but he has not yet shown interest in keeping Mr. Gensler in the government.
In addition, none of the derivatives rules that have been finalized so far will make any real difference if they are not applied internationally. Yet Mr. Gensler has met fierce resistance -- from banks, some C.F.T.C. commissioners and regulators at the Securities and Exchange Commission -- to his plan to extend domestic rules to foreign affiliates of American banks and to foreign banks operating in the United States. Anything less broad would make a sham of derivatives reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FUTURES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



641 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Celebrating Inequality

BYLINE: By GEORGE PACKER. 
George Packer, a staff writer at The New Yorker, is the author, most recently, of ''The Unwinding: An Inner History of the New America.''

 BODY:
THE Roaring '20s was the decade when modern celebrity was invented in America. F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Great Gatsby'' is full of magazine spreads of tennis players and socialites, popular song lyrics, movie stars, paparazzi, gangsters and sports scandals -- machine-made by technology, advertising and public relations. Gatsby, a mysterious bootlegger who makes a meteoric ascent from Midwestern obscurity to the palatial splendor of West Egg, exemplifies one part of the celebrity code: it's inherently illicit. Fitzgerald intuited that, with the old restraining deities of the 19th century dead and his generation's faith in man shaken by World War I, celebrities were the new household gods.
What are celebrities, after all? They dominate the landscape, like giant monuments to aspiration, fulfillment and overreach. They are as intimate as they are grand, and they offer themselves for worship by ordinary people searching for a suitable object of devotion. But in times of widespread opportunity, the distance between gods and mortals closes, the monuments shrink closer to human size and the centrality of celebrities in the culture recedes. They loom larger in times like now, when inequality is soaring and trust in institutions -- governments, corporations, schools, the press -- is falling. 
The Depression that ended Fitzgerald's Jazz Age yielded to a new order that might be called the Roosevelt Republic. In the quarter-century after World War II, the country established collective structures, not individual monuments, that channeled the aspirations of ordinary people: state universities, progressive taxation, interstate highways, collective bargaining, health insurance for the elderly, credible news organizations.
One virtue of those hated things called bureaucracies is that they oblige everyone to follow a common set of rules, regardless of station or background; they are inherently equalizing. Books like William H. Whyte's ''Organization Man'' and C. Wright Mills's ''White Collar'' warned of the loss of individual identity, but those middle-class anxieties were possible only because of the great leveling. The ''stars'' continued to fascinate, especially with the arrival of TV, but they were not essential. Henry Fonda, Barbara Stanwyck, Bette Davis, Jimmy Stewart, Perry Como, Joe DiMaggio, Jack Paar, Doris Day and Dick Clark rose with Americans -- not from them -- and their successes and screw-ups were a sideshow, not the main event.
Our age is lousy with celebrities. They can be found in every sector of society, including ones that seem less than glamorous. We have celebrity bankers (Jamie Dimon), computer engineers (Sergey Brin), real estate developers/conspiracy theorists (Donald J. Trump), media executives (Arianna Huffington), journalists (Anderson Cooper), mayors (Cory A. Booker), economists (Jeffrey D. Sachs), biologists (J. Craig Venter) and chefs (Mario Batali).
There is a quality of self-invention to their rise: Mark Zuckerberg went from awkward geek to the subject of a Hollywood hit; Shawn Carter turned into Jay-Z; Martha Kostyra became Martha Stewart, and then Martha Stewart Living. The person evolves into a persona, then a brand, then an empire, with the business imperative of grow or die -- a process of expansion and commodification that transgresses boundaries by substituting celebrity for institutions. Instead of robust public education, we have Mr. Zuckerberg's ''rescue'' of Newark's schools. Instead of a vibrant literary culture, we have Oprah's book club. Instead of investments in public health, we have the Gates Foundation. Celebrities either buy institutions, or ''disrupt'' them.
After all, if you are the institution, you don't need to play by its rules. Mr. Zuckerberg's foundation myth begins with a disciplinary proceeding at Harvard, which leads him to drop out and found a company whose motto is ''Move fast and break things.'' Jay-Z's history as a crack dealer isn't just a hard-luck story -- it's celebrated by fans (and not least himself) as an early sign of hustle and smarts. Martha Stewart's jail time for perjury merely proved that her will to win was indomitable. These new celebrities are all more or less start-up entrepreneurs, and they live by the hacker's code: ask forgiveness, not permission.
The obsession with celebrities goes far beyond supermarket tabloids, gossip Web sites and reality TV. It obliterates old distinctions between high and low culture, serious and trivial endeavors, profit making and philanthropy, leading to the phenomenon of being famous for being famous. An activist singer (Bono) is given a lucrative role in Facebook's initial public offering. A patrician politician (Al Gore) becomes a plutocratic media executive and tech investor. One of America's richest men (Michael R. Bloomberg) rules its largest city.
This jet-setting, Davos-attending crowd constitutes its own superclass, who hang out at the same TED talks, big-idea conferences and fund-raising galas, appear on the same talk shows, invest in one another's projects, wear one another's brand apparel, champion one another's causes, marry and cheat on one another. ''The New Digital Age,'' the new guide to the future by Eric Schmidt and Jared Cohen of Google, carries blurbs from such technology experts as Henry A. Kissinger and Tony Blair. The inevitable next step is for Kim Kardashian to sit on the board of a tech start-up, host a global-poverty-awareness event and write a book on behavioral neuroscience.
This new kind of celebrity is the ultimate costume ball, far more exclusive and decadent than even the most potent magnates of Hollywood's studio era could have dreamed up. Their superficial diversity dangles before us the myth that in America, anything is possible -- even as the American dream quietly dies, a victim of the calcification of a class system that is nearly hereditary.
As mindless diversions from a sluggish economy and chronic malaise, the new aristocrats play a useful role. But their advent suggests that, after decades of widening income gaps, unequal distributions of opportunity and reward, and corroding public institutions, we have gone back to Gatsby's time -- or something far more perverse. The celebrity monuments of our age have grown so huge that they dwarf the aspirations of ordinary people, who are asked to yield their dreams to the gods: to flash their favorite singer's corporate logo at concerts, to pour open their lives (and data) on Facebook, to adopt Apple as a lifestyle. We know our stars aren't inviting us to think we can be just like them. Their success is based on leaving the rest of us behind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); TENNIS (77%); SPORTS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); ENGINEERING (73%); WRITERS (72%); SCANDALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WORLD WAR I (69%); REAL ESTATE (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (56%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); JAMES DIMON (50%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



642 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Wells Dry, Fertile Plains Steadily Turn to Dust

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
HASKELL COUNTY, Kan. -- Forty-nine years ago, Ashley Yost's grandfather sank a well deep into a half-mile square of rich Kansas farmland. He struck an artery of water so prodigious that he could pump 1,600 gallons to the surface every minute.
Last year, Mr. Yost was coaxing just 300 gallons from the earth, and pumping up sand in order to do it. By harvest time, the grit had robbed him of $20,000 worth of pumps and any hope of returning to the bumper harvests of years past.
''That's prime land,'' he said not long ago, gesturing from his pickup at the stubby remains of last year's crop. ''I've raised 294 bushels of corn an acre there before, with water and the Lord's help.'' Now, he said, ''it's over.''
The land, known as Section 35, sits atop the High Plains Aquifer, a waterlogged jumble of sand, clay and gravel that begins beneath Wyoming and South Dakota and stretches clear to the Texas Panhandle. The aquifer's northern reaches still hold enough water in many places to last hundreds of years. But as one heads south, it is increasingly tapped out, drained by ever more intensive farming and, lately, by drought. 
Vast stretches of Texas farmland lying over the aquifer no longer support irrigation. In west-central Kansas, up to a fifth of the irrigated farmland along a 100-mile swath of the aquifer has already gone dry. In many other places, there no longer is enough water to supply farmers' peak needs during Kansas' scorching summers.
And when the groundwater runs out, it is gone for good. Refilling the aquifer would require hundreds, if not thousands, of years of rains.
This is in many ways a slow-motion crisis -- decades in the making, imminent for some, years or decades away for others, hitting one farm but leaving an adjacent one untouched. But across the rolling plains and tarmac-flat farmland near the Kansas-Colorado border, the effects of depletion are evident everywhere. Highway bridges span arid stream beds. Most of the creeks and rivers that once veined the land have dried up as 60 years of pumping have pulled groundwater levels down by scores and even hundreds of feet.
On some farms, big center-pivot irrigators -- the spindly rigs that create the emerald circles of cropland familiar to anyone flying over the region -- now are watering only a half-circle. On others, they sit idle altogether.
Two years of extreme drought, during which farmers relied almost completely on groundwater, have brought the seriousness of the problem home. In 2011 and 2012, the Kansas Geological Survey reports, the average water level in the state's portion of the aquifer dropped 4.25 feet -- nearly a third of the total decline since 1996.
And that is merely the average. ''I know my staff went out and re-measured a couple of wells because they couldn't believe it,'' said Lane Letourneau, a manager at the State Agriculture Department's water resources division. ''There was a 30-foot decline.''
Kansas agriculture will survive the slow draining of the aquifer -- even now, less than a fifth of the state's farmland is irrigated in any given year -- but the economic impact nevertheless will be outsized. In the last federal agriculture census of Kansas, in 2007, an average acre of irrigated land produced nearly twice as many bushels of corn, two-thirds more soybeans and three-fifths more wheat than did dry land.
Farmers will take a hit as well. Raising crops without irrigation is far cheaper, but yields are far lower. Drought is a constant threat: the last two dry-land harvests were all but wiped out by poor rains.
In the end, most farmers will adapt to farming without water, said Bill Golden, an agriculture economist at Kansas State University. ''The revenue losses are there,'' he said. ''But they're not as tremendously significant as one might think.''
Some already are. A few miles west of Mr. Yost's farm, Nathan Kells cut back on irrigation when his wells began faltering in the last decade, and shifted his focus to raising dairy heifers -- 9,000 on that farm, and thousands more elsewhere. At about 12 gallons a day for a single cow, Mr. Kells can sustain his herd with less water than it takes to grow a single circle of corn.
''The water's going to flow to where it's most valuable, whether it be industry or cities or feed yards,'' he said. ''We said, 'What's the higher use of the water?' and decided that it was the heifer operation.''
The problem, others say, is that when irrigation ends, so do the jobs and added income that sustain rural communities.
''Looking at areas of Texas where the groundwater has really dropped, those towns are just a shell of what they once were,'' said Jim Butler, a hydrogeologist and senior scientist at the Kansas Geological Survey.
The villain in this story is in fact the farmers' savior: the center-pivot irrigator, a quarter- or half-mile of pipe that traces a watery circle around a point in the middle of a field. The center pivots helped start a revolution that raised farming from hardscrabble work to a profitable business.
Since the pivots' debut some six decades ago, the amount of irrigated cropland in Kansas has grown to nearly three million acres, from a mere 250,000 in 1950. But the pivot irrigators' thirst for water -- hundreds and sometimes thousands of gallons a minute -- has sent much of the aquifer on a relentless decline. And while the big pivots have become much more efficient, a University of California study earlier this year concluded that Kansas farmers were using some of their water savings to expand irrigation or grow thirstier crops, not to reduce consumption.
A shift to growing corn, a much thirstier crop than most, has only worsened matters. Driven by demand, speculation and a government mandate to produce biofuels, the price of corn has tripled since 2002, and Kansas farmers have responded by increasing the acreage of irrigated cornfields by nearly a fifth.
At an average 14 inches per acre in a growing season, a corn crop soaks up groundwater like a sponge -- in 2010, the State Agriculture Department said, enough to fill a space a mile square and nearly 2,100 feet high.
Sorghum, or milo, gets by on a third less water, Kansas State University researchers say -- and it, too, is in demand by biofuel makers. As Kansas' wells peter out, more farmers are switching to growing milo on dry land or with a comparative sprinkle of irrigation water.
But as long as there is enough water, most farmers will favor corn. ''The issue that often drives this is economics,'' said David W. Hyndman, who heads Michigan State University's geological sciences department. ''And as long as you've got corn that's $7, then a lot of choices get made on that.''
Of the 800 acres that Ashley Yost farmed last year in Haskell County, about 70 percent was planted in corn, including roughly 125 acres in Section 35. Haskell County's feedlots -- the county is home to 415,000 head of cattle -- and ethanol plants in nearby Liberal and Garden City have driven up the price of corn handsomely, he said.
But this year he will grow milo in that section, and hope that by ratcheting down the speed of his pump, he will draw less sand, even if that means less water, too. The economics of irrigation, he said, almost dictate it.
''You've got $20,000 of underground pipe,'' he said. ''You've got a $10,000 gas line. You've got a $10,000 irrigation motor. You've got an $89,000 pivot. And you're going to let it sit there and rot?
''If you can pump 150 gallons, that's 150 gallons Mother Nature is not giving us. And if you can keep a milo crop alive, you're going to do it.''
Mr. Yost's neighbors have met the prospect of dwindling water in starkly different ways. A brother is farming on pivot half-circles. A brother-in-law moved most of his operations to Iowa. Another farmer is suing his neighbors, accusing them of poaching water from his slice of the aquifer.
A fourth grows corn with an underground irrigation system that does not match the yields of water-wasting center-pivot rigs, but is far thriftier in terms of water use and operating costs.
For his part, Mr. Yost continues to pump. But he also allowed that the day may come when sustaining what is left of the aquifer is preferable to pumping as much as possible.
Sitting in his Ford pickup next to Section 35, he unfolded a sheet of white paper that tracked the decline of his grandfather's well: from 1,600 gallons a minute in 1964, to 1,200 in 1975, to 750 in 1976.
When the well slumped to 500 gallons in 1991, the Yosts capped it and drilled another nearby. Its output sank, too, from 1,352 gallons to 300 today.
This year, Mr. Yost spent more than $15,000 to drill four test wells in Section 35. The best of them produced 195 gallons a minute -- a warning, he said, that looking further for an isolated pocket of water would be costly and probably futile.
''We're on the last kick,'' he said. ''The bulk water is gone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Near Garden City, Kan., the High Plains Aquifer is giving out. (A1)
 Ashley Yost, above, at one of several spots he recently drilled to test for a new well site in Haskell County, Kan. Below, a pivot sprinkler irrigating a wheat crop. Just west of Mr. Yost's farm, Nathan Kells, bottom, cut back on irrigation when his wells began to falter. More photographs are at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) MAP: An Underground Pool Drying Up: Portions of the High Plains Aquifer are rapidly being depleted by farmers who are pumping too much water to irrigate their crops, particularly in the southern half in Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas. Levels have declined up to 242 feet in some areas, from predevelopment -- before substantial groundwater irrigation began -- to 2011. (Source: U.S. Geological Survey) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



643 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Suburbs' Share of Poor Has Grown Since 2000

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The suburbs, which in 2000 accounted for 29 percent of the region's poor people, a decade later were home to 33 percent of metropolitan New Yorkers living below the federal poverty level, according to an analysis of the latest census results.
The analysis, released on Monday by the Metropolitan Policy Program of the Brookings Institution, also found that while the number of poor people in New York City and Newark declined by 7 percent, or 120,000, the number in the suburbs rose by 14 percent, or 100,000, from 2000 to the census's rolling 2008-10 American Community Survey. 
The poor have typically been concentrated in big cities and rural America. Increasing poverty in the New York metropolitan area's historically affluent suburbs mirrored a national trend detailed in the analysis, ''Confronting Suburban Poverty in America'' by Elizabeth Kneebone, a fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program, and Alan Berube, a deputy director of the program.
The first decade of the 21st century was a tipping point, the authors wrote. Suburbia, they said, is now home to the ''fastest-growing poor population in the country.''
While New York and Newark's combined share of poor people in the region dipped from 71 percent to 67 percent, the cities were home to twice the 800,000 or so people who officially qualified as poor in the suburbs in 2010.
''It seems like as the city prospered and got more expensive over the 2000s, poverty crept up in a lot of the region's older suburban communities,'' Mr. Berube said.
''It might not have been people moving from city to suburban neighborhoods per se, but as the region creates more low-wage jobs, and attracts more new immigrants, low-income households that in the past might have located in the Bronx or Brooklyn are now settling in places like northern New Jersey and Westchester County.
''It's telling that the city's 'suburban' borough, Staten Island, is the only one that saw its poor population increase over the 2000s.''
Christopher Jones, vice president for research of the Regional Plan Association, blamed higher housing prices for the demographic shift.
The rising cost of shelter pushed poorer people out of Manhattan and Brooklyn, in particular.
Also, he said, a smaller percentage of workers from suburban areas like Nassau County were commuting to high-paying jobs in Manhattan, and the jobs that were in their hometowns were at shopping malls, in health care and in landscaping, and generally paid less.
At the same time, tenants were doubling up and living in illegal apartments.
Dozens of smaller cities, townships and boroughs registered double- and even triple-digit increases in their poverty rates over the decade.
Among the places where the population of poor residents increased since 2000 were, in New Jersey, Bayonne, Bergenfield, Clifton, Edison Township, Garfield, Hoboken, Hunterdon County, Lakewood, Linden, Mount Olive, New Brunswick, Passaic, Paterson, Perth Amboy, Raritan, Summit, Teaneck and Woodbridge; on Long Island, Brookhaven and Glen Cove; in Westchester, Ossining; in Putnam County, Carmel; and in Rockland County, Ramapo.
Poverty rates increased in some places even after the recession officially ended in 2009, according to the Brookings analysis, but the poor population declined from 2000 to 2010 by 11 percent in Brooklyn and by 10 percent in Manhattan.
It rose 18 percent on Staten Island.
According to federal guidelines, the current poverty level for a family of four is annual income below $23,350.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); CENSUS (77%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); WRITERS (67%); HOME PRICES (60%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



644 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Owner Gets Subpoena To Testify

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Steven A. Cohen has received a subpoena to testify before a grand jury in the government's insider trading investigation into his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, a development that signals a newly aggressive phase in the multiyear inquiry, according to lawyers and executives briefed on the case.
Issued last week, the grand jury subpoena came as part of a broader round of requests from criminal authorities. Other SAC executives were also named in the subpoenas, the lawyers and executives said, and the fund itself received requests for information about its activities.
The subpoenas suggested that federal prosecutors and the F.B.I. are intensifying their efforts to build a case, not only against SAC executives, but also the fund itself. Typically, a grand jury will hear testimony and review evidence before deciding to approve an indictment.
But the fund, which has so far cooperated with the government's inquiry, appeared to balk at some of these new requests. On Friday, SAC told its investors that it was no longer fully cooperating with the investigation. 
''While we have in the past told you of our cooperation with the government's investigation, our cooperation is no longer unconditional,'' said a letter from SAC to its investors.
The curbing of the fund's cooperation appeared to suggest that Mr. Cohen, rather than testify before the grand jury and be subject to questions from prosecutors on a broad range of topics, would assert his constitutional right against self-incrimination, the lawyers briefed on the case said.
In the past, however, Mr. Cohen has given testimony in the government's investigation. Last year, he sat for a civil deposition taken by federal securities regulators in an investigation of Mathew Martoma, a former SAC portfolio manager who has been since criminally charged with illegally trading pharmaceutical stocks.
A spokesman for SAC, Jonathan Gasthalter, declined to comment.
A spokesman for the F.B.I. in New York, J. Peter Donald, and a spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, Ellen Davis, both declined to comment about the case.
Neither the firm nor Mr. Cohen, a 56-year-old billionaire who owns it, has been charged with wrongdoing. Mr. Cohen has maintained that he has behaved appropriately at all times.
SAC, which is based in Stamford, Conn., manages roughly $15 billion and has one of the best investment track records on Wall Street, posting an average of 30 percent annual net returns to its investors over the last two decades.
Unlike most hedge funds, which are leanly staffed and typically have one person directing most of the investment decisions, SAC is a sprawling operation, with more than 1,000 employees -- portfolio managers, analysts, traders and support staff -- in five offices around the world. Despite SAC's superior performance, the legal toll is mounting. Nine former or current SAC employees have been tied to insider trading while at the firm. Four of those employees have pleaded guilty, and two others, Mr. Martoma and Michael S. Steinberg, are fighting the criminal charges against them.
Even before the new subpoenas it was a delicate time for the hedge fund, which is trying to keep its investors from withdrawing their money. This new front in the case could give investors additional cause for concern.
SAC investors have already asked to withdraw $1.7 billion, more than a quarter of the $6 billion that the fund manages for outside clients. The balance of the fund's $15 billion belongs to Mr. Cohen and his employees. To grant investors more time to decide whether to stick with the fund, SAC extended the next regularly scheduled deadline for SAC clients to ask for their money back from last week to early June.
SAC and its lawyers believed that it had put the most serious of its legal problems behind it earlier this year when agreeing to pay a record $616 million penalty to resolve two civil insider-trading lawsuits brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those settlements involved the trading that led to charges against Mr. Martoma and Mr. Steinberg.
But the government surprised Mr. Cohen and his firm by opening up this new chapter of the investigation.
Several weeks ago, federal prosecutors brought SAC's lawyers in for a meeting at their offices in Lower Manhattan. More than a dozen government officials attended the session, led by Richard Zabel, the deputy United States attorney in Manhattan, according to a person briefed on the case. Prosecutors peppered SAC's lawyers with questions about Mr. Cohen and the firm's trading practices. Ultimately, the government decided to issue the grand jury subpoena.
By subpoenaing Mr. Cohen, the government indicated that it was pursuing a case against SAC itself. Federal guidelines discourage prosecutors from soliciting grand jury testimony from the target of an investigation, which suggests that Mr. Cohen was being treated as if he were a potential witness against his own fund.
While the authorities have not settled on a strategy, according to the lawyers and executives briefed on the case, they are pursuing an avenue that could possibly lead to an indictment against SAC, accusing it of allowing traders to carry out illicit activity over years.
But charges against companies are exceedingly rare. Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, went out of businesses after it was indicted in 2002, taking 28,000 jobs with it. (The firm's subsequent conviction was overturned by the Supreme Court.) The episode served as a cautionary tale for prosecutors as they pursue indictments against companies, rather than executives.
Federal guidelines require them to weigh such action with ''collateral consequences'' like job losses and, in the case of big banks, a threat to the economy. An indictment against a hedge fund like SAC, however, would not destabilize the financial system the way that a prosecution of a large bank potentially could.
The government still faces challenges in its case. For one, the move could be interpreted as a last-ditch effort to ensnare Mr. Cohen. Mr. Martoma and Mr. Steinberg have pleaded not guilty and refused to cooperate with the government in helping them build an insider-trading case against Mr. Cohen. And under the five-year statute of limitations for insider trading crimes, the authorities would have to file either criminal charges or a civil case against Mr. Cohen related to most of trades at issue in the Martoma and Steinberg cases by this summer.
By seeking Mr. Cohen's testimony, federal prosecutors could be trying to get him lie before the grand jury, legal experts say. This way, they could try to charge him with perjury instead of insider trading, which was a similar tack that the government took in its criminal case against the media personality Martha Stewart.
As a result of the new requests, SAC decided that it could no longer provide its investors with updates on the inquiry.
''In the past we have tried to be as transparent with you as possible about the state of the investigation, while balancing our desire for transparency with the need to keep the details of a sensitive investigation confidential,'' SAC said in the letter sent on Friday to investors.
''During this period, however,'' the letter said, ''the need for confidentiality will limit our ability to share with you details about how the investigation is progressing.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven A. Cohen is expected to decline to testify. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (96%); GRAND JURY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); DEPOSITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); APPROVALS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%)

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



645 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Bold Growth Plans at Hollywood Studios

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Film counts are down. Production is going elsewhere. And yet big Hollywood studios are planning to expand.
Years into a slump in the local production of movies and television shows, several of the largest California-based studios are laying plans to build sound stages, postproduction facilities and offices in what might become the most aggressive growth spurt in recent Hollywood memory.
Disney, NBCUniversal and Paramount all have large, long-term expansion plans on the books. The construction would follow recent face-lifts and incremental growth on and near the lots owned by the three other major studios -- Fox, Sony Pictures Entertainment and Warner Brothers.
The resulting transformation would seem to put a glow of health on an industry that was bruised by a writers strike in 2007, then battered by recession, piracy and digital competition -- yet remains optimistic about filmed entertainment and its production in and around Los Angeles. 
Some observers are puzzled.
''It doesn't make sense,'' said Peter Guber, chief executive of Mandalay Entertainment Group, a sports and entertainment company. He spoke by telephone as he drove to the set of his latest film, ''The Voices,'' a horror story filmed in Berlin.
After becoming chairman of Sony Pictures in 1989, Mr. Guber ordered a top-to-bottom overhaul of the studio's Culver City lot. More recently, though, he looked at an opportunity to buy a midsize lot here, but backed away. ''It doesn't appear there will be that much more production,'' Mr. Guber said of the near-term prospects.
One closely watched barometer illustrates the trend: the number of location shooting days in Los Angeles County has remained below peaks achieved in 2006 and 2007, according to state and local officials. ''We're still seeing TV shows and films leave,'' said Amy Lemisch, the executive director of the California Film Commission.
Still, last month the Los Angeles Business Journal noted that Disney, NBCUniversal and Paramount were planning three of the largest commercial developments in Los Angeles County, with a combined cost in the billions of dollars, serving as the blueprint for substantial growth in movie and television facilities at all three.
Each of the projects follows a logic of its own, but they all reflect Hollywood's determination to remain a force here by planning enough physical expansion to contain operations well into the future.
''Being in control of your destiny is better than being at the mercy of others,'' said Christine M. McCarthy, Disney's executive vice president for corporate real estate, sourcing and alliances, and the company's treasurer.
At its Grand Central Creative Campus in Glendale, Disney has authorization through 2032 to build up to 3.2 million additional square feet in a 125-acre, light industrial compound. The campus already houses its interactive division and other operations on ground that once housed a local airstrip.
Growth in Glendale would most likely exclude movie and television operations, according to people briefed on the company's approach, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of uncertainty about exact plans.
If approvals are granted, Disney is hoping to build as many as 12 soundstages on its 890-acre Golden Oak ranch about 20 miles to the northwest. That would almost double the number of stages Disney currently owns on its lot in Burbank, and a nearby television-oriented facility -- an expansion that might allow Disney to reduce space it now rents from others.
At Paramount, a $700 million expansion on the studio's Hollywood district lot will occur over 25 years, assuming the plan survives a review process whose next hurdle is the release of an environmental impact report.
Part of the challenge is to integrate operations on an 87-year-old lot that was acquired in pieces, beginning with two adjoining properties, one belonging to Paramount, the other to RKO Pictures (and, later, Desilu Productions), while increasing office and production space.
Along the way, the studio expects to create large stages surrounded by enough open pavement to let crews create a base camp with their wardrobe and catering trucks, rather than threading them around a cramped, 56-acre compound in which stars -- including Desilu's Lucille Ball -- used to have bungalows of their own.
''We're preparing for the next hundred years'' by obtaining approvals for potential future growth, said Sharon J. Keyser, Paramount's senior vice president for real estate, government and community relations.
Perhaps the most breathtaking expansion plan is at NBCUniversal, where the company will build a pair of 500-room hotels, and knock down an amphitheater to make room for a Harry Potter theme park attraction, as part of an upgrade that may cost $1.6 billion.
All of that was approved last month by the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, after nearly a decade of negotiations. Corinne Verdery, NBCUniversal's chief real estate development and planning officer, said the studio was now authorized to build up to 1.45 million square feet of new production facilities.
In the past, physical expansion has not always signaled health in the entertainment business. In Pontiac, Mich., for instance, a new studio defaulted on a large bond payment last year, after that state's incentives program was trimmed.
In Los Angeles, the major studios will try to avoid such jolts by building in phases that should match construction with actual need. Ms. Verdery, for instance, emphasizes that NBCUniversal's newly approved plan, like Paramount's, is more about having the right to build than about specific expansion. (Warner, operating under approvals given long ago, has added stages and other facilities totaling 600,000 square feet in Burbank, according to Jon Gilbert, its president for worldwide studio facilities.)
To some extent, the new plans may also reflect brighter corporate prospects, as studio profit margins have improved since 2007. In a March report, Michael Nathanson, an analyst with Nomura Securities, pointed to shrinking costs, growing international box-office sales and an apparent end to the declines in home entertainment revenue as signs of a new stability in Hollywood.
Still, the studio plans seem a bit bold, given that productions have been migrating to states and countries that offer subsidies more generous than those in California.
Robert A. Kleinhenz, the chief economist for the Kyser Center for Economic Research at the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation, said there was a slight uptick in county entertainment employment in March. But the annual employment figure was stuck at 117,300 in 2012, well below a recent peak of 132,200 in 2004, he noted.
The total number of films released by the major studios and their subsidiaries -- no matter where they were produced -- fell to 128 last year, down 37 percent from a recent peak of 204 in 2006, according to the Motion Picture Association of America -- a decline that helps explain the drop-off in location shooting here.
Ed Duffy, a business agent for Teamsters Local 399, speculated that studios might expect to fill their new space with a flurry of small films, Web productions and reality shows -- the sort of thing that normally does not create much work for the Hollywood unions.
''What their vision is, I can't tell you,'' said Mr. Duffy, who nonetheless applauded the expansion.
Ms. Verdery at NBCUniversal said it was all about making a stand.
''We're going to give it everything we have to keep production here,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An artist rendering of sound stages for Paramount Pictures' $700 million, 25-year expansion plan in Hollywood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIOS CLEMENTI HALE STUDIOS) (B1)
Left, the Bronson Gate, the original entrance to Paramount Pictures' studio. Right, a rendering of a proposed project for the site. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 RIOS CLEMENTI HALE STUDIOS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); WRITERS (75%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MOVIE FILMING (58%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (57%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); MANDALAY ENTERTAINMENT (55%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



646 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: At the U.S.-Mexico Border, Prosperity and Pollution

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Building Ties to a Neighbor on the Border'' (front page, May 13) raises an important issue that is overlooked in immigration reform debates. From the viewpoint of the people living along the United States-Mexico boundary line, the border is a connecting tissue, not a divide. The mayors of San Diego and Tijuana understand this, and are working together to realize their shared destiny. 
A similar, centuries-old cross-border mentality unites other ''twin cities'' along the entire borderline, including El Paso/Ciudad Juárez and Brownsville/Matamoros.
Today, border states are among the fastest-growing regions in both countries. But the last decade of boundary-line fortifications has caused serious damage to the shared lives and commerce along the border, and has poisoned binational relations.
Instead of focusing on building even more barricades, as required by some House and Senate members, we should follow the lead of twin-city mayors and work toward strengthening cross-border ties. Mexico is already far ahead of us in developing the infrastructure necessary for future economic prosperity.
MICHAEL DEAR Berkeley, Calif., May 13, 2013
The writer, a professor in the College of Environmental Design at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of ''Why Walls Won't Work: Repairing the U.S.-Mexico Divide.''
To the Editor:
Your article does an excellent job reporting the economic effects felt on both sides of the border because of long northbound border wait times. But in addition to the economic effects, there are potential adverse health effects because of exposure to traffic exhaust at the United States-Mexican border crossings, including at the San Ysidro Port of Entry into San Diego.
Drivers sit in idling cars, exposed to exhaust fumes, and pedestrians, including elderly people, pregnant women and children, queue for hours right next to lines of diesel buses and passenger vehicles.
Pollutants are many times higher right next to the source as compared with a thousand feet away. Health effects from near-traffic exposures documented in many studies include the worsening of asthma, cardiovascular disease and effects on pregnancy.
Reducing northbound wait times at the United States-Mexican border crossings is an urgent health issue as well as an economic concern.
PENELOPE J. E. QUINTANA San Diego, May 15, 2013
The writer, an associate professor of public health at San Diego State University, is lead author of the report ''Health Impacts of Crossings at U.S.-Mexico Land Ports of Entry: Gaps, Needs and Recommendations for Action.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); MAYORS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); ASTHMA (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SENIOR CITIZENS (56%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



647 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Carbon Emissions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''A Carbon Trading System Worth Saving'' (editorial, May 7) is correct that Europe's carbon market is an important mechanism to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate change. In fact, this conclusion is reinforced closer to home, by the success of New York and eight other states that have operated a carbon reduction program known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or RGGI, since 2008. 
RGGI demonstrates that protecting the environment in the United States can also promote job creation and a vibrant economy. An independent analysis has found that the first three years of the initiative have led to investments in clean energy that will reduce energy bills by $1.3 billion and create thousands of jobs regionwide.
In 2012, California followed RGGI's lead by establishing its own market-based emission reduction program, and a handful of Canadian provinces are expected to join in the years ahead. Other nations, including Australia, New Zealand and South Korea, are also moving forward with market-based carbon reduction programs.
In a yearlong analysis completed in late 2012, RGGI states found that market factors similar to those seen in Europe caused a reduction in demand for emission allowances. Rather than declaring victory and going home, the states decided to make the program even more effective by reducing the cap approximately 45 percent. This cap reduction will ensure continued progress in reducing harmful emissions while increasing the economic benefits from reinvesting auction proceeds.
As Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said in his State of the State address, extreme storm events like Hurricanes Sandy and Irene demonstrate that we must continue to reduce the emissions that cause our climate to change.
JOSEPH A. MARTENS Commissioner, New York State Dept. of Environmental Conservation Albany, May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



648 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Obama Tells Morehouse Graduates to Set an Example

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- President Obama came to Morehouse College, the alma mater of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., on Sunday to tell graduates, 50 years after Dr. King's landmark ''I Have a Dream'' speech in Washington, that ''laws and hearts and minds have been changed to the point where someone who looks just like you can somehow come to serve as president of these United States.''
The president tied Dr. King's journey to his own, speaking in forthright and strikingly personal terms about his struggles as a young man with an absent father, a ''heroic single mom,'' and the psychological burdens of being black in America. 
He also issued a challenge to the graduating class, imploring the young men of Morehouse, the nation's only historically black, all-male college, to be responsible family men, to set an example, and to extend a hand to those less privileged than them.
While Mr. Obama has struck these themes before, he has rarely done so in such unsparing terms. After a week in which his presidency seemed adrift on a sea of controversies, the speech served as both a reminder of his historic role and an emphatic change of subject.
''We know that too many young men in our community continue to make bad choices,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And I have to say, growing up I made quite a few myself. Sometimes I wrote off my own failings as just another example of the world trying to keep a black man down.''
''But one of the things all of you have learned over the last four years is there's no longer any room for excuses,'' the president said to the roughly 500 graduates in a downpour, his words punctuated by claps of thunder.
Wearing academic robes in maroon and black -- he was later awarded an honorary law degree -- Mr. Obama singled out a graduate, Leland Shelton, who, as a four-year-old had been taken away from his mother by the state. By 14, he was in foster care.
On Sunday, Mr. Shelton graduated with Phi Beta Kappa honors and is enrolling at Harvard Law School. The president said that Mr. Shelton planned to use his law degree to advocate for other foster children.
Above all, Mr. Obama exhorted the graduates to extend a hand to other black men, noting that his own success depended less on his Ivy League credentials than on the sense of empathy and obligation he felt, as a black man, to his brothers.
''But for the grace of God, I might be in their shoes,'' the president said. ''I might have been in prison. I might have been unemployed. I might not have been able to support a family.''
Reflecting on his turbulent childhood, Mr. Obama said, ''I sure wish I had had a father who was not only present, but involved; didn't know my dad. And so my whole life, I've tried to be for Michelle and my girls what my father wasn't for my mother and me.''
Declaring that ''there are some things, as black men, we can only do for ourselves,'' Mr. Obama urged the graduates to ''keep setting an example for what it means to be a man.'' And he asked them to extend their sense of justice to other minorities.
Even as he preached responsibility, Mr. Obama praised the distinguished lineage of Morehouse, whose roots go back to shortly after the Civil War, when 37 black men, slave and free, gathered to form the first class. It is a place, he said, where Dr. King first read Gandhi and Thoreau, and absorbed the theory of civil disobedience.
The president dwelt on the legacy of Dr. King, a member of the class of 1948, whom he described, on his arrival here, as an undersize 15-year-old nicknamed ''Tweed'' for his natty dress.
''It was here that professors encouraged him to look past the world as it was and fight for the world as it should be,'' he said. ''And it was here, at Morehouse, as Dr. King later wrote, where 'I realized that nobody was afraid' -- not even of some bad weather,'' Mr. Obama added.
But the president's visit came as Morehouse was enmeshed in its own controversy. The college hastily revamped the format of its baccalaureate service after one of the speakers, the Rev. Kevin Johnson, wrote an op-ed in The Philadelphia Tribune, criticizing what he said was the president's lack of advocacy on behalf of African-Americans.
In an open letter to the college, the president of Morehouse, John Silvanus Wilson Jr., insisted he had changed the format to include more speakers. ''To my chagrin,'' he wrote, ''my decision has been wrongly construed as a decision to 'disinvite' this individual.''
Separately, four students from Morehouse were charged with sexual assault earlier this month in the alleged rape of two female students from nearby Spelman College. Three of the four students are members of the Morehouse basketball team.
Lawyers for the students say the encounters, fueled by drinking, were consensual. The college, declaring it has a ''zero tolerance policy related to violence of any kind,'' said it was cooperating with police and weighing its own disciplinary measures.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Seniors listened through a downpour as President Obama spoke at Morehouse College's commencement ceremony on Sunday.
 Between claps of thunder, Mr. Obama told the class of about 500 graduates that ''there's no longer any room for excuses.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); MEN (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (75%); FOSTER CARE (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); CHILDREN (60%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



649 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on Friday about Fred Eckert, a onetime Goldman Sachs partner who is seeking a comeback after setbacks during the financial crisis, misspelled the name of the Wisconsin city in which he grew up. It is Wauwatosa, not Wawatosa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (84%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



650 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Many Fronts in Fighting Obesity

BYLINE: JANE E. BRODY


HIGHLIGHT: Simply focusing on sugar will do little to quell the rising epidemic in the United States. 

 BODY:
Sugar, and especially the high-fructose corn syrup that sweetens many processed foods and nearly all soft drinks, has been justly demonized for adding nutritionally empty calories to our diet and causing metabolic disruptions linked to a variety of diseases. But a closer look at what and how Americans eat suggests that simply focusing on sugar will do little to quell the rising epidemic of obesity. This is a multifaceted problem with deep historical roots, and we are doing too little about many of its causes.
More than a third of American adults and nearly one child in five are now obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Our failure to curtail this epidemic is certain to exact unprecedented tolls on health and increase the cost of medical care. Effective measures to achieve a turnaround require a clearer understanding of the forces that created the problem and continue to perpetuate it. 
The increase in obesity began nearly half a century ago with a rise in calories consumed daily and a decline in meals prepared and eaten at home.
According to the Department of Agriculture, in 1970 the food supply provided 2,086 calories per person per day, on average. By 2010, this amount had risen to 2,534 calories, an increase of more than 20 percent. Consuming an extra 448 calories each day could add nearly 50 pounds to the average adult in a year.
Sugar, it turns out, is a minor player in the rise. More than half of the added calories - 242 a day - have come from fats and oils, and another 167 calories from flour and cereal. Sugar accounts for only 35 of the added daily calories.
Demographic changes, and how the food and restaurant industries responded to them, compounded the problem. As more women entered the work force, family meals and especially home-cooked meals became less frequent. (Relatively few husbands became family cooks, sadly.) From 2005 to 2008, according to the Department of Agriculture, 20 percent of American calories were consumed in fast-food and full-service restaurants, more than triple the amount in 1977-78.
Eating just one meal a week away from home can translate into two extra pounds a year for the average person, the department calculated. Although the recent economic downturn forced more people to dine at home, the average adult now eats out nearly five times a week.
Unless calorie counts are reliably listed on the menu, it is impossible to know how many are being consumed in a restaurant - never mind the bread, butter, chips and dip that people eat while waiting to be served.
Portions have grown along with waistlines. Restaurants know that Americans love bargains, and providing huge portions doesn't add substantially to overhead. Although some weight-conscious diners will share an entree or take home half a meal for another day, most people tend to eat what they are served.
These restaurants are training diners to believe a serving of food is much larger than what dietitians would consider a proper portion. Now, even when eating at home, people pile too much on their plates.
Portions of other foods also have ballooned. Bagels, once two ounces and 160 calories, now weigh up to 10 ounces and supply 800 calories even before anything is put on them. A Costco corn muffin has 520 calories, and a healthy-sounding raisin bran muffin from Au Bon Pain has 410. Coffee is no longer a calorie-free beverage. A Starbucks 16-ounce latte with 2 percent milk has 190 calories, and a 16-ounce Frappuccino has 410 - about as much as a 32-ounce Coke, with 416 calories from 26 teaspoons of sugar.
People are often fooled by the healthy aura of a food, like yogurt. Yoplait, which has trumped the market in recent years, is really dessert. Yoplait French Vanilla has 26 grams of sugar, twice as much as a serving of Lucky Charms.
Greek yogurt, the current national passion, is really just strained yogurt, higher in protein, fat (unless fat-free) and calories than regular yogurt. And although frozen yogurt typically supplies 30 calories an ounce, most people consume much more than they realize. The serve-yourself frozen yogurt store that recently opened on my corner provides cups that, if filled, would contain 12 ounces; that's 360 calories, not counting toppings.
Although restaurants and packaged food producers often say that they are simply giving customers what they want, Hank Cardello and colleagues at the Hudson Institute, a policy research organization, recently reported that "among leading consumer packaged goods companies and restaurant chains, those that have grown their better-for-you/lower-calorie foods and beverages over the past five years" achieved better sales growth than their competitors.
Toxic though it may be, the problem is not just this environment of food. Researchers now know that people who struggle with weight are battling evolution itself, which has programmed us to store calories when food is plentiful and, when food is scarce, to reduce calories we expend.
When an overweight person cuts down significantly on what he eats, the body defends itself by using fewer calories. The effect can be long-lasting: If a person's weight drops to 150 pounds from 250, significantly fewer calories must be consumed daily to stay at that weight than would be necessary if the person had never been overweight.
Even if a 170-pound person loses 20 pounds, he needs 15 percent fewer calories to maintain the new weight than someone who always weighed 150. Short of bariatric surgery, very gradual weight loss - say, no more than 20 pounds a year - may be the only way around this metabolic slowdown. This strategy gives the body and appetite a chance to adjust.
Willpower rarely helps people who struggle with their weight. With constant temptations to eat more, and especially more high-calorie foods, our society must change. Instead of subsidies for corn used to produce high-fructose corn syrup, let the government subsidize more fresh fruits and vegetables. Michael Pollan, an author and journalism professor at the University of California, Berkeley, has said it best: "Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants." His newest book, "Cooked: A Natural History of Transformation," adds a corollary: "And cook it yourself."
No time? People always have time for what they consider important, and what is more important than your health? Home-cooked food contains better ingredients, and you know what you're eating.

        
Myths of Weight Loss Are Plentiful, Researcher Says
        
Dieting vs. Exercise for Weight Loss
        
Bans on School Junk Food Pay Off in California
        
Does Exercise Make You Overeat?
        
Calories Are Everywhere, Yet Hard to Track

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); DIETING (77%); OILS & FATS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); FAST FOOD (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Exercise; Obesity; Calories; Cooking and Cookbooks; Food; Medicine and Health; Weight; Body; Featured; Personal Health

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



651 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Redeeming Bangladesh

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: The Bangladeshi factory collapse should provoke more accountability on worker safety from companies, governments and the public, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
A multistoried structure cobbled together without much oversight, groaning under its own weight, a source of livelihood but a risk to health and safety - sounds like the garment factory building in Bangladesh, whose recent collapse led to the deaths of more than 1,100 workers.
But it's also a pretty good description of the current system of private regulation labeled "corporate social responsibility" that promises far more to factory workers around the world than it actually delivers. 
In the wake of horrific workplace accidents, including a number of fires, in Bangladesh, attention turned to the behavior of brand-name companies, like celebrities being investigated after servants die at their mansion. No fingerprints on the murder weapon, just bits of paper documenting business connections that activists dug out of the rubble. 
Next came much who-did-what-when analysis, including attention to local officials' statements that Wal-Mart had worked to block a push for increased fire safety last year, in contrast to its more recent decision to increase safety inspections. Several European company commitments to push for improved safety standards could be counterposed with the Walt Disney Company's decision to leave the country.

But while famous multinationals are vivid characters in the story, they aren't determining the plot. Increasingly competitive globalization and increased emphasis on flexible, low-cost outsourcing limits their room for maneuver (though not their earnest efforts to improve their image). 
Even companies with the best intentions can't guarantee the well-being of workers in a slippery, writhing global supply chain, with layers of temporary subcontractors. As The Economist points out, the disaster in Dhaka makes it hard for any company to claim credibly that it can be sure that its products are "ethically sourced." 
The amazing proliferation of corporate responsibility efforts over the last two decades has generated considerable research showing that both consumers and investors are willing to pay a significant price for decisions consistent with their moral values. But more attention has been devoted to estimates of the modest price paid rather than the results actually delivered.
As Markus Kitzmueller and Jay Shimshack note in a recent review article in The Journal of Economic Literature, virtually no research even tries to assess the comparative outcomes of private and public regulation. 
Yet events in Bangladesh clearly show that corporate social responsibility campaigns can't succeed on their own. Evidence that stronger public-private cooperation could lead to better outcomes is offered by the Cambodian garment industry, whose trade agreement with the United States made imports from the country conditional on improved labor standards enforced by the International Labor Organization in the Better Factories Cambodia program. This program, part of a larger Better Work initiative sponsored by the I.L.O., is now under way in nine developing countries. 
Cambodia is no workers' paradise. Indeed, the Better Factories program may have served to co-opt unionization efforts. A recent report by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., "Responsibility Outsourced," offers withering criticisms of social auditing programs, especially those that don't include union representation.
But the International Labor Organization's program has a pro-labor reputation, and Cambodia's regulatory regime seems to work better than that of Bangladesh, even though a recent ceiling collapse killed two workers in Cambodia. (Vietnam has also been described as an example of a successful "higher road" strategy). 
Public-private partnerships to improve working conditions hold out at least some potential for improvement. The political scientist Richard Locke, looking back on his long and disappointing experience studying the voluntary labor standards adopted by Nike, also cites the I.L.O. program, asking, "If Cambodia can do it, why can't Bangladesh?" 
Peer-reviewed research by Gunseli Berik and Yana van der Meulen Rodgers offers evidence that trade-linked incentives can achieve improvements in working conditions without hindering export or job growth. Other research suggests that such efforts would be even more successful if they extended beyond apparel to other export industries. 
The European Union is currently considering ways to use its rules on preferential trade treatment to arm-twist Bangladesh into doing better. In the United States, Democrats in the House of Representatives have pressed President Obama for even stronger action. 
Bangladeshi workers themselves are having a more immediate impact. Widespread protests have forced the government to approve changes in the country's labor laws that could facilitate unionization and consider increases in the minimum wage (currently about $38 per month). 
Better to have a crummy, exploitative job than no job at all. Likewise, better to have corporate self-regulation than none at all. 
Bangladeshi workers deserve better on both counts. So do we all. 

        
When Cheap Foreign Labor Gets Less Cheap
        
Are Western Activists Really Reducing Child Labor?
        
Garment Factories, Changing Women's Roles in Poor Countries

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ETHICS (78%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MURDER (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (72%); INSPECTIONS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Bangladesh; International Labor Organization; Rana Plaza Building Collapse, Bangladesh (2013); Today's Economist

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (68%)

ORGANIZATION: International Labor Organization

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (68%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (68%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Bangladesh

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



652 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Deciding the Future of the Arctic

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: The region holds an estimated 13 percent of the world&#8217;s undiscovered oil reserves and 30 percent of the world&#8217;s undiscovered gas. What should happen to it and who should say? 

 BODY:
THE HAGUE - One only need study the history of the Northwest Passage - the formerly consistently frozen channel north of North America - to better understand the effects of global warming on the Arctic.
Painstakingly navigated for the first time over a three-year span at the beginning of the last century by Roald Amundsen, today - 110 years later - it is regularly crossed by commercial vessels and even cruise ships.
That's because the melting of sea ice has opened a region long protected by its harsh environment. In the process, it has given new significance to the Arctic Council, an organization comprised of the eight arctic nations - Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden and the United States - indigenous groups and observer organizations. 
During the Arctic Council ministerial meeting last week in Kiruna, Sweden, permanent observer status was granted to China, India, Italy, Japan, Singapore and South Korea - all countries located far away from the Arctic.
"There is nothing that should unite quite like our concerns for both the promises and the challenges of the northernmost reaches of the earth," said Secretary of State John Kerry, who attended the meeting.
The outgoing Swedish chairman of the council, Carl Bildt, announced after the meetings last week, "We are committed in doing whatever we can to protect the fragile Arctic environment." (video of the announcement)
Environmental groups warn that the region's "promise" could trump protecting its fragile environment.
"For ordinary people concerned about climate change, there is the sense that the melting of the ice is not being understood as a wake-up call, but as an opportunity to extract more fossil fuels," Ruth Davis of Greenpeace said in a telephone conversation from Sweden.
According to estimates the region holds 13 percent of the world's undiscovered oil reserves and 30 percent of the world's undiscovered gas. 
The council has made just two legally binding recommendations in its 13-year history. Two years ago, it created a law to coordinate search and rescue across the region. At this year's meeting, where Sweden handed the rotating presidency to Canada, a similar accord was struck to coordinate the response to oil spills associated with Arctic exploration.
"The Arctic Council doesn't have the will to put into place the basic common standards to make new development not risk free, but at least safer," Ms. Davis said. "And to rule out some projects - including offshore oil drilling - where the risks are unmanageable," she added.
Environmentalists both inside and outside of the meetings criticized the council as not doing enough. A handful of protesters gathered at the meeting with signs reading "No Arctic Oil."
"We are disappointed that the council is not moving faster to address such urgent issues as preventing oil spills, and reducing the impacts of regional and global climate change." Alexander Shestakov of the World Wildlife Fund, which has official observer status, said in a statement.
In addition to facilitating oil and gas extraction, the changing Arctic environment has opened up fishing grounds and shipping routes, each with its environmental risks, said Annika E. Nilsson, a researcher with the Stockholm Environment Institute.
The diesel oil burned by passing ships, for example, pollutes more at high latitudes than farther south, Ms. Nilsson said.
Yet little stands in the way of economic progress. Elisabeth Rosenthal wrote about China's growing economic interest in joining what has been called the "Great Game" of the opening Arctic.
"It's good to have other voices being heard at the council," Ms. Davis said, "but the most important thing is that those include the vulnerable and future generations, not just the rich."
Ms. Nilsson, who co-authored a status report on the Arctic presented at this year's meeting, explained the Arctic Council's importance in dealing with the regions' many stakeholders.
"Living in a rapidly changing world and being prepared for surprises makes it much more important to have an adaptive mode of government," she said.
Should the arctic region be governed only by those countries that have territorial claims?

        
China and the Northern Rivalry
        
New Claim Rekindles Olof Palme Murder Mystery
        
Art, Free Speech and Racism
        
Russia Is Running Out of Cheap Oil
        
Brussels Break-Ins Investigated as 'Tobaccogate' Unfolds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); HISTORY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); CRUISES (71%); OIL SPILLS (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%) arctic council; arctic fishing; arctic oil; Sweden; Offshore Drilling and Exploration; Arctic Council; Arctic Regions; Featured; Sustainability

ORGANIZATION: Arctic Council

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC (99%); SWEDEN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (88%); INDIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); FINLAND (71%); DENMARK (56%) Arctic Regions

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



653 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: India Arrives at the Arctic

BYLINE: KABIR TANEJA


HIGHLIGHT: Why does India&#8217;s inclusion as a permanent observer in the Arctic Council matter. 

 BODY:
NEW DELHI- India was recently inducted as a permanent observer in the Arctic Council, whose permanent members include the United States, Canada, Sweden, Norway, Russia, Denmark, Finland and Iceland. The other new observers include China, Singapore, South Korea, Japan and Italy, marking the first time that the Arctic Council has inducted observers from Asia.
The Arctic is becoming the latest playground for global powers to flex their muscle over, and India's efforts to be included in the Arctic Council reflects the country's desire to exert greater influence on the global stage, as well as on a region that could be key to meeting its domestic energy needs. 
The Arctic Council was created in 1996 to address the issues faced by the countries that have territories in the Arctic and by the indigenous people of the region. However, the council's sphere of influence and objectives have grown over time as non-Arctic states eye the region, which is becoming more accessible because of the rapidly warming climate, for its oil, gas and mineral riches. According to some estimates, nearly 20 percent of all oil and gas reserves on the planet may be trapped under the seabed in the Arctic Circle.
Diplomatic scuffles have already broken out between the council members. For example, a Russian submarine planted the country's flag at the bottom of the North Pole in 2007, as a symbolic move over its claims in the region. Countries like the United States and Canada condemned Moscow's actions, with Ottawa reminding the Kremlin that "this is not the 15th century."
India has maintained that its interests in the region are scientific, unlike China and South Korea, which have been eager to dive into commercial activity in the environmentally sensitive region.
However, India, which imports 80 percent of its energy requirements, will be looking to get a foothold in the race for natural resources in the Arctic, in consultation with old friends like Russia. For example, India already has plans to build pipelines connecting central Asia with the subcontinent. With help from Russia, India could easily connect these pipelines to the Arctic to tap into the regions oil and gas riches.
New Delhi has had good long-term relations with many of the Arctic Council members. Russia, Canada, Sweden and Norway have especially maintained close ties with India since independence (Russia and Sweden spearheaded India's candidacy to the council). In fact, Sweden's ambassador to India in the 1950s, Alva Myrdal, was one of the first Western diplomats persuaded by then-Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to build industries via foreign direct investment in India, near the city of Pune.
"India will engage with all Arctic Council members at a diplomatic level as well," the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi stated during the application process a few months ago.
Climate change is one of the top concerns of the Arctic Council, but both India and China have previously been at loggerheads with the European Union environmental regulations that ask developing countries to cut levels of greenhouse gases.
Meanwhile, the environmental challenges colliding with trade interests of countries like India and China have continued at the European Commission in Brussels. Airlines from India and China have been threatened with fines and exclusion from European Union airports if they do not comply with rules relating to curbing greenhouse emissions.
Airlines from both countries may face heavy financial penalties if they refused to participate in the European Union's permit system, under which an airline's greenhouse gas emissions in Europe are monitored. Both India and China have previously vowed to boycott such emission programs, labeling them as unfair.
India's refusal to participate in many global programs to cut greenhouse emissions over the past few years has brought both criticism and support. While the developed world has criticized India for not doing enough in the battle against global warming, developing countries like China and Brazil have found themselves on India's side of the debate, asking the developed nations to commit to more cuts instead. India has maintained that such demands are against its economic interests and will hurt its growth prospects, which are vital for a country where millions of people live below the poverty line.
India's stand on emissions may take the entire argument between the developing and the developed to the Arctic Council as well. Even though both India and China are only observers, the melting of the Arctic ice cap is one of biggest areas of contention in the discussions about global warming, and India at times may find itself up in an uncomfortable position while fulfilling its new role on the Arctic Council.
Regardless of its energy goals, India intends to be more active in the Arctic Circle. Plans are being drawn to send many more people to "Himadri," India's research station in the Arctic, which was inaugurated in 2008. The station is located in the Norwegian archipelago of Svalbard at the International Arctic Research Base in Ny-Alesund. India has already spent $3 million on developing Himadri and plans to spend up to $15 million more on future development.
"India has already been working closely with the Arctic Council members," said Navtej Sarna, additional secretary, Ministry of External Affairs. "We will be putting a lot of stress on our scientific work in the region. We have been asked to send more people to the Arctic, and we plan to do so." He added that India also plans to "fruitfully engage with the indigenous people of the region and work with them on environmental issues."
 Kabir Taneja is a freelance journalist, you can contact him on Twitter @KabirTaneja. 

        
A Conversation With: India's Chief Climate Change Negotiator
        
A Volatile Brahmaputra River Will Grow Only More So
        
India's Prime Minister Asks Developed Nations to Use Less Energy and Water
        
How Should India Deal With Changing Monsoons?
        
Cooking the Planet or the Self, an Uneasy Choice

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); ENERGY DEMAND (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Arctic Council; Arctic Regions; European Union; global warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; India; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: Arctic Council; European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) INDIA (99%); ARCTIC (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ASIA (94%); CANADA (94%); NORWAY (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); ICELAND (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); FINLAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); DENMARK (91%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (91%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) Arctic Regions; India

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



654 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: May 20

BYLINE: INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: David Cameron&#8217;s woes; Afghan women&#8217;s rights; H&#038;M in Bangladesh; study abroad and the safety factor; the Cohen brothers at Cannes; wind-limit questions at the America&#8217;s Cup. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Prime Minister David Cameron's leadership came under growing criticism in Britain on Sunday, with a senior former minister asserting that Mr. Cameron had lost control of his party over European policy, and a Cameron ally reportedly describing local activists as "swivel-eyed loons." Stephen Castle reports from London. 
The push to bring up a law that attempts to halt abuse has split the small group of Afghan women's rights advocates. Despite fears of the conservatives, some argued that quick action had to be taken before the exit of the United States, which, along with the European Union, has championed better lives and protections for Afghan women. Alissa J. Rubin reports from Kabul.
At every major stop on the long line from Peshawar, in the northwest, to the turbulent port city of Karachi, lie reminders of why Pakistan is a worry to its people, and to the wider world: natural disasters and entrenched insurgencies, abject poverty and feudal kleptocrats, and an economy near meltdown. Declan Walsh reports from Ruk, Pakistan.
 The retailer H&M led the charge in agreeing to improve worker safety in Bangladesh after a factory collapse, but the company said the decision was in the works before that tragedy. Liz Alderman reports from Stockholm.
 EDUCATION Concern among international students and their parents about safety on American campuses long predates the Boston Marathon bombings. Still, American schools seem to be more popular than ever. Joyce Lau, D.D. Guttenplan and Lara Farrar report.
 ARTS After days and nights of rain puddling on the red carpet and grim tidings darkening the screens at the Cannes Film Festival, the Coen brothers delivered both much-needed levity and an expressive, piercing story about artistic struggle. Manohla Dargis writes from Cannes.
 DESIGN Some recent design projects both give pleasure and entertain, some in surprising ways. Alice Rawsthorn writes from London.
 SPORTSArsenal scored just once against Newcastle United, and edged out Tottenham Hotspur for the last available passport to Europe's top competition. Rob Hughes on soccer.
After the death of a British sailor in a training accident, Luna Rossa Challenge said it would consider not participating in the America's Cup if wind limits for the race were not lowered. Christopher Clarey reports.

        
Cameron at a Crossroads
        
Another Deadly Fire, Another Alarm for Bangladesh
        
'Unpleasant Whiff of Politics' Seen in Afghan Pullout
        
'It Took One Second to Ruin My Life'
        
Banking Advice From Britain's Businessman Archbishop

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); WOMEN (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); MARATHONS (70%); FESTIVALS (69%); FILM (69%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); BOAT RACING (66%); 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); SOCCER (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); RELIGION (50%) Cameron, David; Boston Marathon Bombings (2013); Cannes International Film Festival; Education; Factories and Manufacturing; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Shopping and Retail; Women and Girls; Afghanistan; Bangladesh; Great Britain; Pakistan; IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (82%); NEWCASTLE UNITED PLC (53%)

TICKER: HM.B (STO) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (82%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (53%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (53%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (53%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (53%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (94%) Cameron, David

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); BANGLADESH (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Afghanistan; Bangladesh; Great Britain; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



655 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Gordon Ramsay Calling!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: The social media lessons from the latest Gordon Ramsay&#8217; nightmare. Small-business confidence ticks up. The deficit problem is solved (for now). How to use a six-second video. Would you buy a point-of-sale system from Groupon? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 Must-Reads

Tim Duy explains what Japan's growth means for the rest of the world. And here are the social media lessons from a Gordon Ramsay nightmare gone viral.
 The Economy: Cash Is Not Safe 
Retail sales rise and household debt declines, driven largely by lower housing and credit card balances. Corporate earnings are at a historic high. The latest small-business confidence index ticks up. Builder confidence improves, too. But April's producer prices and industrial production both fell, and the latest business inventories and sales numbers continue to show little improvement. A forecast predicts a plunge in gasoline prices. Business conditions in the New York region (pdf) deteriorate, and the New York Federal Reserve Bank says tight credit is restraining small-business growth. David Rosenberg explains why cash is your least safe bet, and Rex Nutting is convinced that everything is overvalued: "No one's sure when the reckoning will take place, but it's likely to be ugly when it does." Joseph Biden agrees with a 7-year-old's suggestion to make the world a better place. 
 Washington: Sequestration Watch 
The Congressional Budget Office says the deficit problem is solved for the next 10 years. Paul Krugman says the case for austerity has crumbled, but Keith Hennessey says it's too soon to celebrate. Jared Bernstein submits the fourth installment of his "sequester watch." The Federal Reserve, whose policy has pushed some start-ups to be valued at a billion dollars, may ease up on monetary easing this summer. Here are a few buzzwords to watch as the Fed plots its exit strategy. Joe Weisenthal reveals the real reason people bash Ben S. Bernanke and John Maynard Keynes at conferences. A bunch of economists offer advice to graduates.
 Your People: Hourly Workers
Alex Befekadu lists seven employee types that you should fire. Joanne Sammer takes a look at what constitutes a healthy work/life balance and how companies can achieve that goal. A study finds that freedom is the top reason for quitting and that millennials want to be entrepreneurs (but that doesn't always mean starting businesses). Here are four steps to hiring hourly workers this summer. Crispin Jones explains the benefits of having a diverse workplace. Here are five ways to deliver bad news to employees (and the best ways to open a beer).
 Finance: A Trip to Mars 
André Mouton believes that if venture capitalists aren't interested in crowdfunding, maybe you should be (apparently, Donald Trump is interested). Jeff Hindenach explains why credit cards remain a viable option for small businesses. Kabbage expands its small-business financing (using QuickBooks data), and NASA is offering $9.8 million to small and midsize businesses for a trip to Mars. Joe Taylor gives advice for building a profitable banking relationship, but here are some alternatives if you cannot. And here are two helpful online valuation tools to find out how much your business is worth. Bayer HealthCare goes on a start-up hunt. Retiring baby boomers are driving the sales of small businesses.
 Start-Up: Controlling Fear 
Ken Oboh says start-ups should ditch their "go big or go home" mentality. Peter Thiel's first investment in Europe has gone to a London-based start-up in financial technology. A life coach explains how to control the fear of starting a small business. Two start-up founders were not afraid to sleep in a van for months on end. Here's how start-ups can get cheap office space and three ways to jump-start your dreams. Morgan Hartley and Chris Walker explain why your city needs a start-up scene. A venture capital firm is eager to invest in start-ups in Charlotte, N.C. A start-up "dream team" is looking for 45 young aspiring entrepreneurs from around the world to join a nine-week summer program in Silicon Valley. This is how one entrepreneur started three businesses by age 32.
 Management: Go to Bed 
Todd Wasserman explains key performance indicators. Julia Kirby says that if you want to change the world, you should get to bed by 10 p.m. Here are eight easy ways for your business to go green, and Jim Smith explains what your business can learn from the $1 cups at Starbucks. Communicating with energy is one of the five most important business skills. According to an American Express study, 70 percent of entrepreneurs say they purchase and source goods and services from other small businesses. A survey reveals the DNA of America's small-business owners.
 Marketing: The Ultimate Pitch 
Here is how Lowe's is making its customers smarter with six-second videos on Vine. Pamela Wilson has suggestions for getting customer testimonials that will convince even the most skeptical prospects. Mark Emond writes that there are four foundational elements of marketing analytics success. Suren Ter-Saakov explains what is important about competitive analysis. Diane Carlson warns not to make these business card mistakes. Jill Konrath says this is the ultimate sales pitch. A contract manufacturer shares eight marketing tips.
 Around the Country: A $50,000 Challenge 
An Alaskan town will vanish by 2017. In tornado-hit Joplin, Mo., employees of local businesses chip in again to rebuild. A new Colorado law provides recourse for discrimination against workers at companies that employ fewer than 15 people. Constant Contact joins with Staples and Score to host free webinars. CNBC's new small-business show introduces a $50,000 challenge. In Chicago, mothers are showing their childrenthe real estate ropes. In Pennsylvania, four businesses receive energy-efficiency and pollution-prevention grants, registration opens for a small-business expo on government contracting and a small-business conference plans a summer debut in Philadelphia.
 Around the World: Manufacturers Coming to U.S.
The euro zone recession continues into its sixth quarter, and the social mood darkens. The United States oil boom leaves OPEC sidelined from demand growth. Japan's economy expands faster than expected. A youth hockey brawl breaks out in Russia. China's industrial production grew 9.3 percent in April. Jeffrey Telep and Joshua Snead report that global manufacturers are moving production to the United States. The proportion of British-based small businesses targeting the growing international market for low-carbon products has doubled in the past two years.
 Social Media: Exclamation Points 
Amanda McCormick wants to know how you are using social media to market your business. Dan Zarrella finds that exclamation points get more retweets but fewer clicks. LinkedIn bans users from promoting prostitution and escort services, but this is not why the social media service annoys Benedict Evans. Christopher Null wonders if Google Plus matters for small businesses.
 Red Tape: Deficiencies 
The Government Accountability Office finds 60 deficiencies in the Internal Revenue Service's internal controls, and Jon Stewart weighs in. The Obama administration announces three advanced manufacturing innovation institutes. A survey reveals a lingering uphill battle for the new health care law, but Emily Maltby and Angus Loten wonder whether the law may create new entrepreneurs. Sarah Kliff explains what will happen if you don't pay the tax penalty, and a small-business owner explains the hard facts of the health care law to employees.
 Online: Call to Action! 
Seth Godin explains why they call it a browser: "Call it attention inflation. More time spent looking, less time spent clicking." A company that provides legal services to small businesses is now accepting Bitcoin as payment (and Amazon introduces its own virtual currency). OpenSky becomes another "interesting competitor" in the online marketplace. Here are some keyword strategies to draw people to your site, and here is how to use calls to action in your next e-mail campaign. Roger Kohl tells you everything you need to know about "the scariest search engine" on the Internet. Here are Time magazine's best Web sites of 2013, and here are 16 steps to hosting a successful webinar. Did you know that 70 percent of consumers trust online reviews
 Retail: Bike Lanes Are Good 
Square unveils hardware for its point-of-sale iPad registers, Groupon officially introduces its own point-of-sale system, and PayPal unveils a program to compel small merchants to throw away their cash registers. Also, keep your eyes on these shopping-cart-mounted tablets that will detect nearby items and offer recipes in real time. Fred Lizza says cloud retail can transform your business, and these are the benefits of a cloud-based inventory management system. A survey finds restaurant sales and traffic improved in April. Restaurant marketers are waking up to a $50 billion breakfast opportunity, and millennials are propelling the growth of the sandwich industry. Bike lanes happen to be good for local businesses.
 Mobile: Dead in the Water 
Nearly 75 percent of all smartphones sold in the first quarter were Android-based, and this chart shows that the iPhone's market share is "dead in the water." It is now estimated that the mobile marketing industry may employ 1.4 million people by 2015. Tobin Dalrymple suggests five ways to publish content on mobile. Here is a guide to mobile productivity apps, and Brian S. Hall shares six mobile apps created by nontech companies. Jon Gold explains why everyone is still confused by mobile management. BlackBerry will introduce BBM for iOS and Android this summer. A coming webinar looks at small-business adoption of mobile.
 Technology: Texting to Landlines 
Google is offering free unified storage across its services along with a way to send money by Gmail. Here is everything Google announced at its developer's conference (which is also where the company's chief executive said he wanted to start his own country). A company introduces texting to landlines. Michael del Castillo shares the lessons learned from five huge tech flops. Megan Totka suggests five customer relationship management tools for small businesses. Windows Blue may leave customers seeing red.
 Tweet of the Week 
@dansinker - How long does a keynote have to last before it's considered a hostage situation?
 The Week's Best Quote 
Charlie Hamilton shares a few lessons from the lemonade stand: "Successful adults often worked when they were young. They mowed lawns, baby-sat, or had a lemonade stand. Learning how to work hard, provide good customer service, overcome challenges, ask for the sale, and understand the value of a dollar are invaluable life lessons that kids simply can't get from a textbook."
 This Week's Question: Would you buy a point-of-sale system from Groupon?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Apple, Gold and Cupcakes
        
This Week in Small Business: Free Lunch?
        
This Week in Small Business: Not Again!
        
This Week in Small Business: Free Furniture!
        
This Week in Small Business: Small Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (75%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CROWDSOURCING (72%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (61%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Small Business; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%); JARED BERNSTEIN (56%); KEITH HENNESSEY (56%); BEN BERNANKE (56%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (51%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



656 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Actavis to Buy Warner Chilcott in All-Stock Deal

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The generic drug maker Actavis has agreed to buy the specialty pharmaceutical company Warner Chilcott in an all-stock deal after talks to sell itself to Valeant Pharmaceuticals fell apart last month. 

 BODY:
The generic drug maker Actavis agreed on Monday to buy Warner Chilcott, a smaller rival, for about $5 billion in stock, in the latest flurry of deal-making in the specialty drug industry. 
The merger comes after Actavis's talks to sell itself to Valeant Pharmaceuticals fell through last month. After the failure of that proposed deal, Actavis turned to its talks with Warner Chilcott while turning down deal entreaties from bigger drug makers like Mylan, according to a person briefed on the matter.
 Under the terms of the deal, the company will pay 0.16 of an Actavis share for each Warner Chilcott share. At Friday's closing prices, that amounts to $20.08 a share, nearly 5 percent higher than Warner Chilcott's closing price that day. Actavis will also assume Warner Chilcott's $3.5 billion in long-term debt.
The combined company is expected to have about $11 billion in annual revenue, with focuses on products for women's health, urology and dermatology. Actavis, itself the product of a merger of Watson Pharmaceuticals of the United States and Actavis of Switzerland, now specializes in generic drugs, including a version of Lipitor.
"We have set as our strategic corporate objective to build a leading global specialty pharmaceutical company," Paul M. Bisaro, Actavis's chief executive, said in a statement. "The combination of Actavis and Warner Chilcott creates a strong specialty brand portfolio focused in therapeutic categories with strong growth potential, and is supported by a deep pipeline of development programs."
The merged company would be based in Ireland, Warner Chilcott's current home, to take advantage of favorable tax laws in that country.
The deal requires the approval of shareholders in both companies, as well as the sanction of the Irish High Court.
The biggest shareholder of Warner Chilcott is Fidelity Management and Research, the mutual fund company, which held a 10 percent stake as of earlier this month, according to Bloomberg data. Fidelity Management is the second-largest shareholder of Actavis, with a stake of 5.7 percent, the data showed.
Actavis was advised by Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch and Greenhill & Company, while Warner Chilcott was advised by Deutsche Bank.

        
Valeant and Actavis Talks Fall Through, for Now
        
Mylan Buys Drug Maker of Generic Injectables

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); GENERIC DRUGS (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MERGERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); WOMEN (67%); UROLOGY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%) Actavis Group; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Mylan Inc; Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc; Warner Chilcott Ltd; Mylan Inc|MYL|NASDAQ; Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc|VRX|NYSE; Warner Chilcott Ltd|WCRX|NASDAQ; Healthcare; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: ACTAVIS GROUP HF (92%); ACTAVIS INC (92%); VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (90%); WARNER CHILCOTT PLC (90%); FMR CORP (67%); GREENHILL & CO INC (63%); ARDEA BIOSCIENCES INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Actavis Group; Mylan Inc; Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc; Warner Chilcott Ltd

TICKER: ACT (NYSE) (92%); VRX (TSX) (90%); VRX (NYSE) (90%); WCRX (NASDAQ) (90%); GHL (NYSE) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%); DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%) Mylan Inc; MYL; NASDAQ; Mylan Inc; MYL; NASDAQ; Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc; VRX; NYSE; Mylan Inc; MYL; NASDAQ; Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc; VRX; NYSE; Warner Chilcott Ltd; WCRX; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (67%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: PAUL M BISARO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (58%); IRELAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



657 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Former Senator to Run Wall St. Lobby Group

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association announced that Judd A. Gregg, a former Republican senator from New Hampshire, would become the group&#8217;s chief executive. 

 BODY:
At Wall Street's lobbying outfit, a revolving door continues to spin. 
On Monday, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association announced that Judd A. Gregg, a former senator, would become the group's chief executive. Mr. Gregg, a Republican from New Hampshire who served three terms in the Senate, will now become the face of Wall Street's effort to soften financial regulation. 
Mr. Gregg is the latest onetime government official to join the lobbying group, which has become something of a bridge between Wall Street and Washington. Mr. Gregg will succeed Timothy Ryan Jr., a former federal regulator who joined JPMorgan Chase earlier this year. Kenneth E. Bentsen Jr., a former Democratic representative who was acting as the group's interim chief in recent months, will become president. 
The shake-up comes at a pivotal time for Wall Street lobbyists. Federal regulators are finalizing hundreds of new rules for Wall Street under the Dodd-Frank Act, the overhaul passed in response to the financial crisis. Wall Street objects to many of the rules, which impose changes on the mortgage market, derivatives trading and other profitable corners of the industry. 
"We are facing a great many challenges," Mr. Gregg said in a statement, "and I look forward to working with legislators and regulators together as we improve our economy and the lives of our citizens." 
Mr. Gregg has a résumé built for influencing Washington. After two terms as governor of New Hampshire and eight years in the House of Representatives, Mr. Gregg became a senator focused on fiscal issues. At one point, he was the ranking Republican on the Senate Banking Committee. After retiring in 2010, he served as an "international adviser" for Goldman Sachs. 
Mr. Bentsen, a former investment banker from Texas, was in the House from 1995 to 2003. There he sat on the House Financial Services Committee and the House Budget Committee. 
"I look forward to working with Judd and our members as we promote effective and efficient markets, at home and abroad," Mr. Bentsen said in the statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); GOVERNORS (72%) Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (92%); TIM RYAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



658 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Camping Out for Five Days, in Hopes of a Union Job

BYLINE: JESSICA GLAZER


HIGHLIGHT: Hundreds of job seekers gathered in Queens, waiting until Local 3 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers would hand out applications for its training program. 

 BODY:
The men began arriving last Wednesday, first a trickle, then dozens. By Friday there were hundreds of them, along with a few women. 
They set up their tents and mattresses on the sidewalk in Long Island City, Queens, unpacked their Coronas and cards - and settled in to wait as long as five days and nights for a slender chance at a union job as an elevator mechanic.
On Monday morning, Local 3 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers would hand out applications for its training program. Those in line - there were more than 800 by sun-up Monday - were hoping for a chance at job security, higher salaries and other benefits. 
Andres Loaiza, 25, had his eye on a position that includes minimal physical labor. 
"I want to get to that point where I would troubleshoot and not kill my back anymore," said Mr. Loaiza, who currently does nonunion electrical and mechanical elevator work. And the union, he added, looking years down the road, would provide college funding for his son, who is now 4. 
Every 18 to 20 months, the union accepts 750 applications for the 150 to 200 spots in its four-year apprenticeship program, distributing them from the second-floor office of its elevator division on 36th Street. Those who pass a test and are accepted start out making $17 an hour. If they complete the program, which includes college-level classes, they become journey workers, making $35 to $40 an hour with pensions and full medical benefits.
While they waited, the hopefuls lined the sidewalk along 36th Street, across from people drinking beer at Studio Square, past the Astor Room pumping jazz fusion from its speakers, and along the huge building of Kauffman Studios, where one morning some men said they were given leftover breakfast originally intended for the movie studio's extras. 
The union had rented six port-a-potties and hired a 24-hour security guard. The police from the 114th Precinct stopped by to ensure order. Moving the process off the street would not have made things much easier for the union, said Nicholas LaGuardia, director of the union's elevator division.
 "If we did it online or we did it like a mail-in, we'd have to go through 10,000 applications," he said.
While the job seekers came prepared with dominoes, iPhones, camping lights and tarps, by Friday many of them were bored, pacing. Overnight, they brushed their teeth with bottles of water; tucked into their sleeping bags, folding chairs or cars; and tried to get some rest. 
On Saturday as a light drizzle fell, four new friends leaned over a camping grill with sizzling burgers and sausages that they bought from a nearby grocery store, which had also opened its bathroom to them. 
Gerry Dubatowka, 20, whose father is in Local 3, had come down from Orange County, N.Y., to wait for his shot. He is studying electrical technology at Orange County Community College, but said he would rather work with his hands than be in school. 
"I just want to do whatever, wherever I got to start," said Mr. Dubatowka. "I want steady work all the time." 
Mr. Dubatowka met Mr. Loaiza and two other men, Carlos Ramirez, 23, and Edwin DeLeon, 38, waiting in the line. Soon, they started referring to one another as neighbors with rent-stabilized homes on the sidewalk, though Mr. Dubatowka actually spent nights in his car.
After Sunday's drenching rain, Monday morning dawned gray. A few arguments erupted as people tried to cut the line. A security guard yelled not to take up the whole sidewalk. 
"I'm going to spend the next four days in the shower," Mr. Dubatowka promised.
At 9 a.m. Monday, the door opened. The first man in line disappeared inside and emerged moments later with a wide smile across his face. 
"Yay! No. 1!" one man yelled when he stepped onto the sidewalk. 
"Good luck, big guy!" said another. He cheered, throwing both hands into the air, one clutching the paperwork. A moment passed before a union representative brought things back to earth. 
"Let's go," he said. "Move the line."

        
Unemployment Rate Falls to Lowest Level in Over Four Years
        
City's Jobless Rate Dips as Many People Stop Looking for Work
        
Fast-Food Workers Walk Off the Job
        
Fast-Food Union Organizers Get Some Historical Perspective
        
Weak Job Market Leaves City's Unemployment Rate Flat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (63%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%) International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers; Labor and Jobs; Long Island City (Queens, NY); Housing & Economy; Labor; Queens

ORGANIZATION: International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island City (Queens, NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



659 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Bring Sun-Powered Irrigation to Poor Farmers

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Designers focused on improving lives for poor farmers have a solar-powered pumping plan. 

 BODY:
One of the finest applications of solar photovoltaic panels is in powering drip irrigation systems for farmers in hot, sunny, poor parts of the world. You don't even need to store the electricity. The pumping is mainly needed when the sun is shining.
To gauge the remarkable benefits of such systems, start with this peer-reviewed study of solar irrigation projects in Africa's dry zone led by Jennifer Burney of the University of California, San Diego, and Stanford: "Solar-powered drip irrigation enhances food security in the Sudano-Sahel."
One of the challenges, as with many solar systems, is cost.
Now, Paul Polak, a veteran developer of simply designed products that can benefit the world's poor (particularly farmers), is trying to raise $50,000 using Indiegogo to produce what he and some volunteer engineers say will be a 2,000-watt solar pumping system that is affordable for farmers who make $3 to $5 a day. (There are three weeks and around $35,000 to go.) 
The initial focus is to establish something of a water hub in a village in India. As Polak explains, "When two or more of these pumps are in the same vicinity it creates a micro-market for excess water, creating opportunity for the poorer farmers."
There's much more background on the proposal here and in this video:
[Video: Watch on Youtube.]
I sent some background on the technology to Professor Burney and sent her questions to Polak. Read on for the discussion (I've cleaned up some e-mail shorthand):
Jennifer Burney: 
This is fantastic to see. Paul Polak and Bob Yoder have been working for a while now on low-cost solar pumping and I've heard rumors of different designs / approaches over the years. It's hard to know exactly what the design is based on the video and description... but I'm looking forward to finding out more....
Again, not knowing any details, the biggest question mark for me is on well drilling costs and depth/flow limits. 
(1) Borewells are really expensive (unless they're through soft material and can be done by hand). I am very curious to know what they are exploring on that front
(2) Irrigating 1 hectare [just under 2.5 acres] in dry climates requires quite a bit of water, which means reasonably high flow rates, which...implies depth limits. I'd love to know what specifications they are designing for.
Paul Polak: 
Jen raised some very good questions! 
First of all, Jack Keller, who has written the classic texts on drip and sprinkler irrigation [ some of his work is here ] and who Jen probably also knows, is also an active participant in the design team.
The breakthrough in affordability is based on a total systems design approach, in which the cost of the photovoltaic electricity generation system is an important component. Many of the affordability breakthroughs are based on other parts of the system- the controller, the inverter, the motor, the pump, the water conveyance from the well to the crop, the water application system, the selection of high value diversified crops to be grown, and optimization of farmer production methods and access to market. For example, we can provide a drip irrigation system that costs $1,400 for one hectare, less than half the cost of conventional systems. Replacing earth channels by lay-flat hose and conventional surface irrigation by low cost drip at least doubles crop/drop efficiency. Fine tuning impellers to the exact vertical lift improves efficiency by as much as 40 percent.
This project is market driven. There are approximately 20 million diesel pumps producing irrigation water just in India now. Most of them are 5 horsepower with vertical lifts in the suction range. We are designing a radically affordable 2 kilowatt solar pumping system capable of drip irrigating one hectare of high value diversified off-season fruits, vegetables and spices at a retail price 80 percent lower than the existing price of $7,000 for an installed 2 kilowatt solar pumping system in India today. To irrigate 1 hectare (2.5 acres), Jack's calculations assume we need to apply 5mm/day, which we will deliver through a low cost drip irrigation system. Since it is capable of irrigating 1 hectare of land, this system will be attractive for a very large population of farmers, first in India and then in other developing countries.
Since PV is costly, we start by lowering the cost of the PV system through the use of concentrators. The basic idea is that its cheaper to build flat plate mirrors with a simple tracking devices than it is to invest in larger solar panels. With an efficiency of about 70 percent in mirror-reflected light, our pilot tests with miniaturized models indicate we can obtain an output of about seven suns from 10 mirrors on which 10 suns of light fall when the sunlight is concentrated on a solar panel. This means that in full scale models, we should be able to get approximately 2000 watts output from a 300 watt panel on which 10 mirrors concentrate light. 
The problem of overheating of the panels is addressed by attaching a simple water based heat exchanger to the back of the panel through which a small portion of the groundwater we are lifting is pumped. We are using flat plate mirrors because they are one-third the cost of parabolic mirrors, and because flat plate mirrors can be obtained just about anywhere comparatively cheaply in rural areas in developing countries. 
This is an example of the options that are being considered. In the end each of the system components will be designed or selected to provide the most cost effective solution that optimizes total system performance to create attractive profit generating opportunities for farmers. The systems approach will minimize the energy required to accomplish what a conventional 5 horsepower diesel pump does. So we economize on the use of water by using low cost drip irrigation application systems, and creating breakthroughs in lowering filter friction, pipe friction, and pump energy losses through a system design approach in which each component contributes optimally to the efficiency and affordability of the total system. 
Since our initial business strategy is to directly compete in the marketplace with installed 5 horsepower diesel pumpsets, we bypass the problem of drilling costs - the farmers we will sell to initially already have tubewells that deliver the required amount of water. We also have a good deal of experience in affordable drilling of boreholes when in the future we start marketing to farmers ready to drill new wells. Fortunately in India there is already a lot of experience with low-cost drilling. Even wells with 4-inch casings suitable for engine pumps are being made at low cost. This is in the Himalayan outwash plain that covers much of eastern India. A large percentage of the 20+ million engine pump wells in operation in India were drilled manually and pump from shallow aquifers that are refilled each monsoon.

        
Big Social Costs Tallied in Regions With Scant Energy Access
        
Satellite Tracking of Middle East Aquifers Points to the End of 'Data Denial'
        
Can Wind, Water and Sunlight Power New York by 2050?
        
Satellites Reveal Depletion of a Vital Middle East Water Supply
        
Study Finds Some African Farmers Adapting to Withstand Climate Stresses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (96%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRRIGATION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (73%); FOOD SECURITY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%) Africa; Agriculture and Farming; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Design; India; Irrigation; Polak, Paul; Poverty; Solar Energy; Stanford University; Third World and Developing Countries; Water; Wells; Agriculture; energy; india; innovation

ORGANIZATION: Stanford University

PERSON: Polak, Paul

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (55%) Africa; India

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



660 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: When Place Is Not Enough


HIGHLIGHT: A less geographically mobile America is not necessarily a more communitarian America. 

 BODY:
My Sunday column invoked Rod Dreher's new book, "The Little Way of Ruthie Leming," while trying to tease out some issues surrounding loneliness and community in America, and particularly the possible link between Americans' weakening social ties and our slowly rising suicide rate. Readers interested in these questions should also check out Damon Linker's recent column on "Little Way", which puts Dreher's book in the context of a broader intellectual tendency on the post-Bush, post-Great Recession right:
When Dreher resolved to follow Ruthie's "little way" by giving up his life on the East Coast, returning to rural Louisiana, and writing a book defending the decision, he placed himself firmly in the camp of conservatives who congregate at a website called Front Porch Republicand contribute regularly to The American Conservative ... Unlike the leaders of the mainstream conservative movement, Patrick Deneen, Mark T. Mitchell, Russell Arben Fox, Jeremy Beer, and the other "Porchers" have little interest in engaging with inside-the-Beltway power politics. Instead, they prefer to act as gadflies, denouncing the imperial ethos and influence-peddling that dominates Washington, as well as the boundless greed that drives would-be Masters of the Universe from around the country to seek their fortunes on Wall Street and in Hollywood and Silicon Valley. 
Influenced by an eclectic range of thinkers, including sociologists Christopher Lasch and Philip Rieff, political theorist Wilson Carey McWilliams, Catholic philosopher David Schindler, and poet and essayist Wendell Berry, the Porchers see conservatism as a disposition or way of living locally, within moral, religious, economic, and environmental limits, in tightly knit, sustainable community with neighbors and the natural world. If they have a rallying cry, it's "Stay Put!" Or, in Dreher's case, "Go Home!"
Linker describes this idea as a kind of an "ideology of ruralism," which prompted a response from Dreher insisting that it's an ideology of rootedness, as applicable in the suburbs and the city (or some suburbs and some cities, at least) as it is in Saint Francisville, Louisiana:
... as I've tried to make clear to audiences on this book tour, I don't think everybody should move back to the small towns from which they come. For one thing, many, many people don't come from a small town. Many others were raised by parents who moved a lot, and don't have a town to return to. Still others can't go back, and for good reasons (no jobs, broken families, and so forth) ...
Rather, my advice would be to do your very best to root yourself in the community where you do live, and to do your best to stay there - achieving "stability" in the Benedictine sense.
As a sympathetic but also sometimes skeptical observer of the "Front Porch Republic" style of conservatism, I think the distinction suggested here - between a philosophy of rootedness and a philosophy that just stresses "place" in general or idolizes the rural life in particular - is central to Porcherism's ability to offer a realistic response to the ills of contemporary American life. A communitarianism that just suggests that everyone should find their own St. Francisville is obviously unresponsive to the reality of a post-agrarian society, but a communitarianism that just tells people to "stay put!" more generally, whether in cities or suburbs or exurbs, is likewise insufficient ... because to a surprising extent, Americans are already doing just that.
It's easy to assume that America's current crisis of community - the fragmentation of family life, the retreat from civic and religious engagement - is related to people being too quick to pull up stakes and leave their existing communities behind. But the surprising reality is that the recent weakening of social ties has coincided with a decline in mobility. Here are the relevant Census figures:
The percentage of people who changed residences between 2010 and 2011 [#x2500] 11.6 percent [#x2500] was the lowest recorded rate since the Current Population Survey began collecting statistics on the movement of people in the United States in 1948, the U.S. Census Bureau reported today. The rate, which was 20.2 percent in 1985, declined to a then-record low of 11.9 percent in 2008 before rising to 12.5 percent in 2009. The 2010 rate was not statistically different than the 2009 rate.
Now Americans are still a more mobile people than most. But if you're looking for a straightforward link between staying in place and the health of America's communities, this is not the trend you would expect. We are staying put more than we did in earlier eras, and yet outside of the upper class it isn't translating into the kind of personal and familial stability that communitarians want to cultivate.
So they/we need a story of what's going on here. Is it that people are staying in place in an attempt to compensate for turmoil in their personal lives - divorced dads sticking near their kids, single mothers relying on grandparents for childcare - and our communities would be in even worse shape if Americans were moving around at the rate they did in 1980? Is it that strong communities ultimately depend on jobs and rising wages, and so we actually need people to move a little more in order to boost their economic prospects? (And is mass homeownership, in particular, a case where the desire for rootedness has had perverse effects, anchoring people to bad investments and creating stresses that no amount of neighborliness can solve?) Or is it that the flawed design of many of our communities - particularly the suburban and exurban sprawl that James Howard Kunstler famously dubbed the "geography of nowhere" - simply makes it impossible for people to put down real roots no matter how long they stay?
I'm not sure how communitarians should answer these questions. But the answers are crucial to the project's plausibility. I think Dreher and others are right that real happiness depends, for many if not most people, on a connection between family, community, and place. But on the evidence of the recent American experience, place alone is not enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (74%); POLITICS (73%); SUICIDE (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGION (64%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (63%); SUBURBS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



661 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: White House Sets U.S.-China Summit for California in June

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama plans to meet President Xi Jinping of China next month for the first time since Mr. Xi&#8217;s installation as the Chinese leader, as the two men try to address critical issues like North Korea, the global economy and allegations of state-sponsored cyber attacks. 

 BODY:
President Obama plans to meet President Xi Jinping of China next month for the first time since Mr. Xi's installation as the leader of the world's most populous nation, as the two leaders try to establish a working relationship on critical issues like North Korea, the global economy and allegations of state-sponsored cyber attacks, the White House announced on Monday. 
Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi will meet on June 7 and 8 at Sunnylands, the Walter and Leonore Annenberg estate in Southern California, the White House said. Mr. Obama already had travel scheduled on the West Coast at that time, officials said, so they decided that Sunnylands, a less formal setting, would provide a better environment for the two men to get to know each other. To prepare for the meeting, Thomas E. Donilon, the president's national security adviser, will travel to Beijing from May 26 to 28.
"The U.S.-China agenda is big and complex, and we have a lot of issues to discuss and work though," said Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the White House. "As we have said before, the relationship has elements of cooperation and elements of competition. We have no illusions about this. Our approach to China seeks to expand the areas of cooperation in managing regional and global challenges, and we seek to manage our differences in a way that prevents disruptive and unhealthy competition from undermining our interests and those of our allies in Asia."
The meeting will come at a significant moment for the United States and China. As a recent flurry of threats from North Korea underscored, Mr. Obama is encouraging China to play a greater role in restraining the erratic conduct of its isolated neighbor. Moreover, China holds about $1.25 trillion in United States debt, more than any other foreign country, but its share of total debt has fallen in recent years to 7 percent from 10 percent, easing American reliance on Beijing.
As for cyber technology issues, the United States has accused China of state-sponsored cyber attacks that it believes have led to the theft of billions of dollars in intellectual property and government documents.
The meeting with Mr. Xi in California will be part of a busy few weeks in foreign relations for Mr. Obama. He plans to attend the Group of Eight summit meeting in Belfast, Northern Ireland, in mid-June, where he will meet with longtime allies as well as President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. On Monday, the White House announced that Mr. Obama will make a weeklong journey to Africa starting in late June.
Sunnylands, a sprawling estate more than 100 miles east of Los Angeles, has played host to seven American presidents, as well as members of Congress, Supreme Court justices, Queen Elizabeth II and other members of the British royal family, and Hollywood figures like Bob Hope, Frank Sinatra, Jimmy Stewart and Ginger Rogers, according to its Web site.

        
Myanmar's President to Visit White House
        
Foreign Policy Debate Puts Focus on Leadership
        
Monday's Debate Puts Focus on Foreign Policy Clashes
        
Filing Trade Suit, Obama Raps Romney on China
        
Romney Goes After Obama on Defense Cuts and Information Leaks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CYBERCRIME (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); BRITISH MONARCHS (64%); BRITISH ROYALTY (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) China; Obama, Barack; United States International Relations; Xi Jinping; The Caucus

PERSON: XI JINPING (94%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); LEONORE ANNENBERG (59%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (50%) Obama, Barack; Xi Jinping

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); WEST USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



662 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: The Outrageous Cost of a Gene Test

BYLINE: By DAVID B. AGUS. 
David B. Agus, a medical oncologist, is a professor of medicine and engineering at the University of Southern California and the author of ''The End of Illness.''

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- ANGELINA JOLIE'S revelation that she had had a preventive double mastectomy was eloquent and brave. She had learned that she inherited a faulty copy of a gene, BRCA1, that put her at high risk for invasive breast cancer as well as ovarian cancer. Now women everywhere are asking: Should I get the same test? What will it cost?
Only one in about 400 women carry mutations to BRCA1 or to a related gene BRCA2, though such hereditary defects are implicated in between 5 percent and 10 percent of all breast cancers. The majority of the 230,000 cases of breast cancer diagnosed annually in the United States are not related to these genes. But if you're that one in 400 women, you'd want to know so you could make informed decisions about your health care. 
Unlike routine tests for diabetes or high cholesterol, however, the BRCA gene evaluation -- performed by only one company in the United States, Myriad Genetics -- is phenomenally expensive, with a ''list price'' close to $4,000 when a related genomic-rearrangement test is included in the analysis, which oncologists typically recommend.
The question is why? Today, molecular scientists like me can sequence all of an individual's genes -- at least 20,000 of them -- for about $1,000. About five cents per gene.
One company, 23andMe, charges people $99 to see if they have gene variants that put them at higher risk for 120 diseases and whether they carry a known heritable mutation in an additional 50, including cystic fibrosis, sickle cell disease and Tay-Sachs disease. (I helped found one of that company's competitors, Navigenics, which is now owned by Life Technologies. While I have no equity stake in these companies, I am paid a consulting fee by Life Technologies.)
23andMe uses a technology called genotyping, which identifies specific variants (or markers) within the genes that are associated with those diseases rather than sequencing the genes the way Myriad does -- which makes the process much easier and, admittedly, less comprehensive in its analysis.
But plenty of other DNA tests are also dirt cheap in comparison. The test that identifies whether a woman carries one of several strains of human papillomavirus -- strains that would sharply increase her risk of getting cervical cancer -- generally costs under $100.
Myriad says the average patient with insurance coverage pays about the same or less out of pocket for its BRCA test. But lost in this answer is the fact that somebody -- private insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid -- pays much of the rest. Ultimately, that means that all of us are paying in the forms of higher insurance premiums, co-payments and deductibles as well as higher taxes.
We're paying this lofty price in large part because Myriad owns broad patents on these two BRCA genes, which it acquired in 1997 and 1998, respectively -- and refuses to license the test to any other American company. (Last month, the Supreme Court heard arguments in a lawsuit challenging the appropriateness of those patents and is expected to deliver its decision by June.)
Without competition, Myriad can effectively charge whatever it wants. Later this year, the company said it would begin incorporating the BRCA test into a 25-gene cancer-risk evaluation and phase out the à la carte BRCA test by 2015. For that broader test, it projects a gross profit margin of 87 percent.
Myriad says that the lack of competition in the United States has little to do with the price of its BRCA evaluations -- and points to Europe, where health-system reimbursement rates are higher even though dozens of providers offer the test. But if this is the model for the future -- when testing for genetic markers is certain to become a far greater part of health care than it is now -- we're all in trouble.
I'm all for innovation and the right to protect intellectual property, but when there is a clear monopoly and human lives are at stake, we need legislative action for rational and appropriate pricing. We don't make vaccines prohibitively expensive so only the rich can protect themselves. Nor should we let other preventive measures that can save thousands of lives be priced at levels far above what normal ''market conditions'' would suggest.
Dana Goldman, a health economist at the University of Southern California, says one solution is a licensing model that would reward innovators for developing a test, but let it be widely distributed, at low cost. In the case of a diagnostic test like that for the BRCA genes, for example, insurance companies could pay for the intellectual property, buy a license on behalf of their insured customers (you and me), and then make sure as many at-risk individuals as possible were tested.
This is essentially the same strategy the French government used in 1839 when it purchased the patent on photography from Louis-Jacques-Mandé Daguerre and then put the rights out to the public domain (except in England), so that the whole world could benefit.
Not every woman, even those who have a strong familial history of breast cancer, wants to know if she carries a BRCA mutation. But all women with some risk factors for this genetic variant should be able to decide whether to be tested, without regard to cost.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREAST CANCER (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CANCER (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (90%); GENETIC SCREENING (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GENOMICS (89%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); CERVICAL CANCER (77%); ONCOLOGY (77%); GENETIC DISEASES (77%); DNA (77%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (73%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (73%); OVARIAN CANCER (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); DNA TESTING (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (69%); MEDICAID (69%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (69%); DIABETES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (67%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (66%); VIRUSES (64%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (63%); INSURANCE (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (54%)

COMPANY: MYRIAD GENETICS INC (55%)

TICKER: MYGN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



663 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Billions In Taxes Avoided By Apple, U.S. Inquiry Finds

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and CHARLES DUHIGG; Nelson D. Schwartz reported from Washington and Charles Duhigg from New York. David Kocieniewski contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Even as Apple became the nation's most profitable technology company, it avoided billions in taxes in the United States and around the world through a web of subsidiaries so complex it spanned continents and went beyond anything most experts had ever seen, Congressional investigators disclosed on Monday.
The investigation is expected to set up a potentially explosive confrontation between a bipartisan group of lawmakers and Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, at a public hearing on Tuesday.
Congressional investigators found that some of Apple's subsidiaries had no employees and were largely run by top officials from the company's headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. But by officially locating them in places like Ireland, Apple was able to, in effect, make them stateless -- exempt from taxes, record-keeping laws and the need for the subsidiaries to even file tax returns anywhere in the world. 
''Apple wasn't satisfied with shifting its profits to a low-tax offshore tax haven,'' said Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that is holding the public hearing Tuesday into Apple's use of tax havens. ''Apple successfully sought the holy grail of tax avoidance. It has created offshore entities holding tens of billions of dollars while claiming to be tax resident nowhere.''
Thanks to what lawmakers called ''gimmicks'' and ''schemes,'' Apple was able to largely sidestep taxes on tens of billions of dollars it earned outside the United States in recent years. Last year, international operations accounted for 61 percent of Apple's total revenue.
Investigators have not accused Apple of breaking any laws and the company is hardly the only American multinational to face scrutiny for using complex corporate structures and tax havens to sidestep taxes. In recent months, revelations from European authorities about the tax avoidance strategies used by Google, Starbucks and Amazon have all stirred public anger and spurred several European governments, as well as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a Paris-based research organization for the world's richest countries, to discuss measures to close the loopholes.
Still, the findings about Apple were remarkable both for the enormous amount of money involved and the audaciousness of the company's assertion that its subsidiaries are beyond the reach of any taxing authority.
''There is a technical term economists like to use for behavior like this,'' said Edward Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles and a former staff director at the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. ''Unbelievable chutzpah.''
While Apple's strategy is unusual in its scope and effectiveness, it underscores how riddled with loopholes the American corporate tax code has become, critics say. At the same time, it shows how difficult it will be for Washington to overhaul the tax system.
Over all, Apple's tax avoidance efforts shifted at least $74 billion from the reach of the Internal Revenue Service between 2009 and 2012, the investigators said. That cash remains offshore, but Apple, which paid more than $6 billion in taxes in the United States last year on its American operations, could still have to pay federal taxes on it if the company were to return the money to its coffers in the United States.
John McCain of Arizona, who is the panel's senior Republican, said: ''Apple claims to be the largest U.S. corporate taxpayer, but by sheer size and scale, it is also among America's largest tax avoiders.''
In prepared testimony expected to be delivered to the Senate committee by Mr. Cook and other Apple executives on Tuesday, the company said it ''welcomes an objective examination of the U.S. corporate tax system, which has not kept pace with the advent of the digital age and the rapidly changing global economy.''
The executives plan to tell the lawmakers that Apple does not use tax gimmicks, according to the prepared testimony.
Mr. Cook is also expected to argue that some of Apple's largest subsidiaries do not reduce Apple's tax liability, and to press for a sweeping overhaul of the United States corporate tax code -- in particular, by lowering rates on companies moving foreign overseas earnings back to the United States. Apple currently assigns more than $100 billion to offshore subsidiaries.
Atop Apple's offshore network is a subsidiary named Apple Operations International, which is incorporated in Ireland -- where Apple had negotiated a special corporate tax rate of 2 percent or less in recent years -- but keeps its bank accounts and records in the United States and holds board meetings in California.
Because the United States bases residency on where companies are incorporated, while Ireland focuses on where they are managed and controlled, Apple Operations International was able to fall neatly between the cracks of the two countries' jurisdictions.
Apple Operations International has not filed a tax return in Ireland, the United States or any other country over the last five years. It had income of $30 billion between 2009 and 2012. By shuttling revenue between international subsidiaries, Apple was able largely to sidestep paying taxes, Congressional investigators said.
In the prepared testimony, Apple executives disputed the characterization of Apple Operations International. ''A.O.I. performs important business functions that facilitate and enhance Apple's success in international markets,'' the testimony states. ''It is not a shell company.''
The Senate investigators also found evidence that the company turned over substantially less money to the government than its public filings indicated.
While the company cited an effective rate of 24 to 32 percent in its disclosures, its effective tax rate was 20.1 percent, based on the committee's findings. And for a company of Apple's size, the resulting difference was substantial -- more than $8 billion in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
Because of these strategies, tax experts say, Washington is forced to rely more and heavily on payroll taxes and individual income taxes to finance the government's operations. For example, in 2011, individual income taxes contributed $1.1 trillion to federal coffers, while corporate taxes added up to $181 billion.
As companies' earnings have accumulated offshore, many executives have been pushing more aggressively for a tax holiday that would allow them to bring back funds at lower tax rates. Apple has recently announced that it will return $100 billion to shareholders over three years through a combination of dividends and purchases of its own shares. Though Apple has enough cash on hand to pay for those initiatives, the company recently announced it would take on $17 billion in debt, rather than bring overseas money back to the United States to avoid paying repatriation taxes on those returning funds.
''If Apple had used its overseas cash to fund this return of capital, the funds would have been diminished by the very high corporate U.S. tax rate of 35 percent,'' Mr. Cook is planning to testify, according to the prepared text. Apple ''believes the current system, which applies industrial era concepts to a digital economy, actually undermines U.S. competitiveness.''
Critics, however, say these so-called repatriation holidays, which bring back funds at lower tax rates, do virtually nothing to stimulate the economy and benefit only corporations, their executives and shareholders. Congress enacted a repatriation holiday in 2004, allowing corporations to bring back about $300 billion from overseas and pay just 5.25 percent rather than the regular 35 percent corporate rate.
But a study by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that 92 percent of the repatriated cash was used to pay for dividends, share buybacks or executive bonuses.
''Repatriations did not lead to an increase in domestic investment, employment or R.&D., even for the firms that lobbied for the tax holiday stating these intentions,'' concluded the study, which was conducted by a team of three economists that included a former Bush administration official. Tuesday's hearing on Capitol Hill, along with the disclosures about Apple's tax policies, are likely to make lowering repatriation taxes a more difficult proposition for lawmakers to stomach, Congressional staff members said.
On Capitol Hill Monday, legislators made plain their fury over what they called Apple's ''egregious'' and ''outrageous'' conduct.
While other companies have taken advantage of loopholes, Mr. Levin said, ''I've never seen anything like this and we don't know anybody who's seen anything like this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Apple successfully sought the holy grail of tax avoidance,'' Senator Carl Levin said on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) CHART: Apple's International Structure: According to a report by a Congressional panel, Apple has avoided billions in taxes through the use of international subsidiaries. Apple has subsidiaries in Ireland where the company has negotiated a special tax rate of 2 percent. These units contract with manufacturers to assemble Apple products, sell the products to other subsidiaries for distribution, and return the profits up the chain of companies in the form of dividends. But some of these subsidiaries do not have a stated tax residence and pay no taxes at all. (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (71%); STEVEN JOBS (58%); TIM COOK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



664 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Gulliver Seeks Rental: The Newfound Fascination With Tiny Dwellings

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
In Luke Clark Tyler's last New York City apartment, his shoes had some unusual companions in the closet. The shoes sat, in neat pairs, on a rack, directly below his dishes and right next to the microwave. A few inches away, a hip-high refrigerator lived beneath his desk. And the apartment was so narrow that Mr. Tyler could sit on a sofa pushed against one wall with his feet propped up on the opposite wall.
This was because Mr. Tyler's entire home was only 78 square feet. And while his ''Midtown mansion,'' as he called it, was a far cry from the lavish town homes and shimmering penthouses that have spawned a thousand lustful television shows, a video tour of Mr. Tyler's little room posted on YouTube has been viewed nearly 1.7 million times over the past year and a half. A similar video, about a 90-square-foot apartment on the Upper West Side, has been viewed even more times.
''My sister e-mailed me one morning and said, 'You've got two million hits,' and by that night we had three million,'' said Felice Cohen, the writer and professional organizer who lived there. Ms. Cohen's video has now been watched on YouTube nearly 5.2 million times. 
''Maybe we're an inspiration for them,'' Ms. Cohen said of those many viewers. ''Or maybe they think we're nuts.''
Few are keen to crumple themselves and their belongings into an itty-bitty room and call it home, yet the eagerness to explore these spaces seems to spread like a determined little wildfire. Videos go viral; news media coverage quickly crosses oceans; attendance is even up at a Manhattan museum currently offering an exhibition on micro-apartments. Perhaps this voracious interest is mere curiosity about how living so small can be comfortably done. Maybe it is just voyeurism. More often, it seems, it is something else: schadenfreude, the pleasure one takes in the misfortune of others. Because, finally, somebody has an apartment smaller than yours.
''Nice little jail cell there,'' one YouTube commenter wrote beneath Ms. Cohen's video.
''OMG,'' wrote another. ''And I was crying about my 600-square-foot place.''
Another said simply, ''hahahahaha.''
Yes, most frequently, said Mr. Tyler -- who was branded ''el cheapo!'' by one YouTube viewer -- commenters bring the discussion back to their own arrangements.
''I have three bedrooms and a stable full of horses, or a palace in wherever it is I live, and it costs half as much,'' Mr. Tyler offered as an example. He said on the video that he was paying $800 a month for the room.
Both Mr. Tyler's and Ms. Cohen's apartments were shot by a woman named Kirsten Dirksen, a co-founder of a sustainable living Web site called faircompanies.com, for a series of videos on tiny homes. They inspired thousands of comments, dozens of articles and interviews, and even segments on ''Good Morning America'' and CNN.
Ms. Cohen's video also got her evicted from her tiny apartment, which happened to be an illegal sublet.
Ms. Cohen sent the video to the woman she was subletting from, Lara J. Kisielewska, who had held the lease on the apartment for more than 10 years. Ms. Kisielewska was surprised.
''Hello! You're illegally subletting!'' she recalled thinking. ''What are you doing?''
Eventually, her landlord saw the video, too.
Both Ms. Cohen and Ms. Kisielewska, who owns a graphic design firm, have happily moved on to larger apartments nearby. Mr. Tyler has also left his teensy home, which was in a single-room-occupancy building, and decamped to the West Coast.
''I have my own bathroom,'' Mr. Tyler said of his current living arrangement. ''Which is really nice, I've got to say.''
Lilliputian apartments are not only a popular thing to explore online. An exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, called ''Making Room,'' brought a 30 percent bump in attendance during its opening week in January, and the museum has maintained an 11 percent increase in foot traffic during the show's run, compared with the same period last year.
In addition to small models, educational videos and some information on the city's own foray into tiny dwellings -- at the end of the year, the city hopes to break ground on 55 micro-apartments, measuring from 250 to 370 square feet, on East 27th Street -- the exhibition includes a full-scale 325-square-foot model apartment.
It has a Murphy bed, an L-shaped kitchen, perhaps the world's smallest dishwasher, and a number of labels that say, ''Do Not Touch.''
The exhibition also includes a bright pink sofa, on which a man in a faded gray baseball cap sat himself down last week, and quickly fell asleep.
''Either we were really successful in creating a domestic environment, or we've created a really boring exhibition,'' said Donald Albrecht, the museum's curator of architecture and design.
Living in a small space can have many economic and environmental advantages, and many of those who explore those spaces, whether in person or online, enthuse about what they offer and are eager to learn more.
Not everybody. For example, the many viewers of a blog called ''The Worst Room,'' which collects terrible, cramped, and generally windowless apartment advertisements placed on Craigslist.
''I think there's a lot to be said for utilizing a small space, but I literally saw somebody advertising a 5-foot by 7-foot closet,'' said Ryan Nethery, 25, a cinematographer and Kentucky native who started the blog during his own apartment search. ''The post read, 'my bedroom has two closets and I don't need one of them. Looking to rent it out.' ''
That ad, accompanied by a small picture that included a visible clothing rod, boasted a Union Square location and asked $1,000 per month. Other posts include a $600 crawl space in South Williamsburg and a gray, L-shape sofa, which appeared to be in the center of somebody's living room, for $700 per month.
In the less than three weeks since Mr. Nethery began his blog, he has been written about on Yahoo, in The Huffington Post and in New York magazine, and even on an Australian news Web site. But all the attention has not been the only surprise resulting from the blog, Mr. Nethery said. Viewers have been e-mailing him to request links to some apartment ads because, they say, they think they might like to live there.
''The breakfast nook was pretty popular,'' Mr. Nethery said. ''It was a mattress in the kitchen, so it was like: refrigerator, sink, oven, mattress.''
''But it was $300 a month,'' he continued. ''I think of lot of people can relate to wanting to pay a lot less than they do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A YouTube video of Luke Clark Tyler's 78-square-foot home was viewed nearly 1.7 million times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN DIRKSEN)
 A Museum of the City of New York exhibition on micro-apartments is called ''Making Room.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); WRITERS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



665 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: New Research Tools Kick Up Dust in Archives

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
Seated recently in the special collections room at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology library, Anders Fernstedt raced through an imposing set of yellowing articles and correspondence.
Several years ago Mr. Fernstedt, an independent Swedish scholar who is studying the work of the 20th-century philosopher Karl Popper and several of his colleagues, would have scratched out notes and set aside documents for photocopying.
Now, however, his tool of choice is the high-resolution camera on his iPhone. When he found a document of interest, he quickly snapped a photo and instantly shared his discovery with a colleague working hundreds of miles away. Indeed, Mr. Fernstedt, who conducts his research on several continents, now packs his own substantial digital Popper library on the disk of his MacBook Air laptop computer -- more than 50,000 PDF files that he can browse through in a flash.
In just a few years, advances in technology have transformed the methods of historians and other archival researchers. Productivity has improved dramatically, costs have dropped and a world distinguished by solo practitioners has become collaborative. In response, developers are producing an array of computerized methods of analysis, creating a new quantitative science. 
However, the transformation has also disrupted many of the world's historical archives, long known as sleepy places distinguished by vast and often musty collections of documents that only rarely saw the light of day. It has also created new challenges for protecting intellectual property and threatened revenue streams from document copying, creating financial challenges for some institutions.
''It gives me a bit of a chill,'' said Henry Lowood, curator for History of Science and Technology Collections and Film and Media Collections in the Stanford University Libraries. ''It's not so much that we try to control things, it's that we have agreements with people who give us their papers, and in order for us to monitor those agreements we need to monitor things at some level.''
The shift in archival research was documented in a report in December, ''Supporting the Changing Research Practices of Historians,'' financed by the National Endowment for the Humanities.
''Increasingly powerful search and other discovery tools have really transformed academia in the past decade,'' said Roger C. Schonfeld, a program director at Ithaka S+R, an educational research and consulting group, and an author of the report.
The report notes that the widespread use of digital cameras and other scanning gear ''is perhaps the single most significant shift in research practices among historians,'' and that the change has a range of implications for the field.
In one case described in the report, a professor at a university in the United States was able to direct a graduate student working in archives in Europe. At the end of each day the student would upload the photographs he had collected, allowing the professor to focus his tasks for the following day.
Researchers say these new efficiencies have transformed their practices.
''I've used digital camera strategies for reducing the length of archival trips,'' Shane Landrum, a graduate student in history at Brandeis University, wrote on his Web site. ''Instead of building a giant research budget to support months on end in a particular faraway collection, I've put together short travel grants, and I've been able to collect research materials that wouldn't otherwise have been easy to amass.''
The report also pointed out that there are benefits to the archival institution -- and to future researchers. In one case, a researcher scanned documents in a local archive that had never been scanned before, then contributed his scanned work to the archives, in the hope that it would make the work more accessible to others in the future.
But for all its academic potential and efficiency benefits, some see the opening of the world's archives as a mixed blessing. Archivists who are in charge of caring for documents that have in the past been looked at rarely, and by a relative handful of historians, worry about damage to bindings from careless researchers who flatten books to obtain better images. They also worry about the loss of control, which in some cases can lead to violations of agreements that the archives have with donors of historical materials.
Libraries have also had to adapt their policies to the new copying technology, something with which they are just now coming to terms, said Dr. Lowood. For example, initially Stanford's archives charged people when they used their own equipment to copy material, but a year ago the practice was halted. That has eliminated a source of revenue, and prompted new guidelines: Now researchers are permitted to bring their own gear to copy documents. They are, however, required to show that they can use the equipment correctly.
And Stanford may be ahead of the curve, said Robert G. Trujillo, head of special collections at the library. He said many collections still charge researchers, even if only a flat fee, for the privilege of making their own digital copies.
Beyond the intellectual property issue, the new technology has created a surfeit of material for researchers, and that in turn has spawned a new challenges -- principally, how to manage the wealth of material that is now accessible.
''The rapidity with which the technology allows you to copy has really challenged people on what to do with all of this material, how to contextualize it,'' said Francis Blouin, a historian who is director of the Bentley Historical Library at the University of Michigan.
But that development, too, has had mixed consequences: The rapid rise of ''digital humanities'' has also prompted innovation, and now new data mining tools specifically designed for the mass of unstructured textual documents are becoming available to historians -- and in turn transforming the possibilities for analysis.
''This opens up whole new categories of research,'' said Joanna Guldi, a historian of Britain and an assistant professor at Brown University.
For example, she was able to use textual analysis tools and data from Google Books to determine changes in how strangers interacted on the streets in England before the 20th century.
She is one of the designers of a text analysis tool called Paper Machines that makes it possible for historians to visually examine large digital libraries to look for changes in language and other clues about social, political and economic behavior.
For some researchers, however, it has become a brave new world of specialized technologies and methods.
''I was trained in the methods of get myself to an archive and request the boxes, and pull out the documents and review the documents and request my copies and bring my copies home,'' said Leslie Berlin, project historian for the Silicon Valley Archives at Stanford University. Now she often begins with electronic records. ''Now my methodology has changed for the better in terms of efficiency. What's lost in the change is the serendipity of what else might be in this box of materials, if I had gone there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); HISTORY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); ENDOWMENTS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



666 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Many Fronts in the Obesity War

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
Sugar, and especially the high-fructose corn syrup that sweetens many processed foods and nearly all soft drinks, has been justly demonized for adding nutritionally empty calories to our diet and causing metabolic disruptions linked to a variety of diseases. But a closer look at what and how Americans eat suggests that simply focusing on sugar will do little to quell the rising epidemic of obesity. This is a multifaceted problem with deep historical roots, and we are doing too little about many of its causes.
More than a third of American adults and nearly one child in five are now obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Our failure to curtail this epidemic is certain to exact unprecedented tolls on health and increase the cost of medical care. Effective measures to achieve a turnaround require a clearer understanding of the forces that created the problem and continue to perpetuate it. 
The increase in obesity began nearly half a century ago with a rise in calories consumed daily and a decline in meals prepared and eaten at home.
According to the Department of Agriculture, in 1970 the food supply provided 2,086 calories per person per day, on average. By 2010, this amount had risen to 2,534 calories, an increase of more than 20 percent. Consuming an extra 448 calories each day could add nearly 50 pounds to the average adult in a year.
Sugar, it turns out, is a minor player in the rise. More than half of the added calories -- 242 a day -- have come from fats and oils, and another 167 calories from flour and cereal. Sugar accounts for only 35 of the added daily calories.
Demographic changes, and how the food and restaurant industries responded to them, compounded the problem. As more women entered the work force, family meals and especially home-cooked meals became less frequent. (Relatively few husbands became family cooks, sadly.) From 2005 to 2008, according to the Department of Agriculture, 20 percent of American calories were consumed in fast-food and full-service restaurants, more than triple the amount in 1977-78.
Eating just one meal a week away from home can translate into two extra pounds a year for the average person, the department calculated. Although the recent economic downturn forced more people to dine at home, the average adult now eats out nearly five times a week.
Unless calorie counts are reliably listed on the menu, it is impossible to know how many are being consumed in a restaurant -- never mind the bread, butter, chips and dip that people eat while waiting to be served.
Portions have grown along with waistlines. Restaurants know that Americans love bargains, and providing huge portions doesn't add substantially to overhead. Although some weight-conscious diners will share an entree or take home half a meal for another day, most people tend to eat what they are served.
These restaurants are training diners to believe a serving of food is much larger than what dietitians would consider a proper portion. Now, even when eating at home, people pile too much on their plates.
Portions of other foods also have ballooned. Bagels, once two ounces and 160 calories, now weigh up to 10 ounces and supply 800 calories even before anything is put on them. A Costco corn muffin has 520 calories, and a healthy-sounding raisin bran muffin from Au Bon Pain has 410. Coffee is no longer a calorie-free beverage. A Starbucks 16-ounce latte with 2 percent milk has 190 calories, and a 16-ounce Frappuccino has 410 -- about as much as a 32-ounce Coke, with 416 calories from 26 teaspoons of sugar.
People are often fooled by the healthy aura of a food, like yogurt. Yoplait, which has trumped the market in recent years, is really dessert. Yoplait French Vanilla has 26 grams of sugar, twice as much as a serving of Lucky Charms.
Greek yogurt, the current national passion, is really just strained yogurt, higher in protein, fat (unless fat-free) and calories than regular yogurt. And although frozen yogurt typically supplies 30 calories an ounce, most people consume much more than they realize. The serve-yourself frozen yogurt store that recently opened on my corner provides cups that, if filled, would contain 12 ounces; that's 360 calories, not counting toppings.
Although restaurants and packaged food producers often say that they are simply giving customers what they want, Hank Cardello and colleagues at the Hudson Institute, a policy research organization, recently reported that ''among leading consumer packaged goods companies and restaurant chains, those that have grown their better-for-you/lower-calorie foods and beverages over the past five years'' achieved better sales growth than their competitors.
Toxic though it may be, the problem is not just this environment of food. Researchers now know that people who struggle with weight are battling evolution itself, which has programmed us to store calories when food is plentiful and, when food is scarce, to reduce calories we expend.
When an overweight person cuts down significantly on what he eats, the body defends itself by using fewer calories. The effect can be long-lasting: If a person's weight drops to 150 pounds from 250, significantly fewer calories must be consumed daily to stay at that weight than would be necessary if the person had never been overweight.
Even if a 170-pound person loses 20 pounds, he needs 15 percent fewer calories to maintain the new weight than someone who always weighed 150. Short of bariatric surgery, very gradual weight loss -- say, no more than 20 pounds a year -- may be the only way around this metabolic slowdown. This strategy gives the body and appetite a chance to adjust.
Willpower rarely helps people who struggle with their weight. With constant temptations to eat more, and especially more high-calorie foods, our society must change. Instead of subsidies for corn used to produce high-fructose corn syrup, let the government subsidize more fresh fruits and vegetables. Michael Pollan, an author and journalism professor at the University of California, Berkeley, has said it best: ''Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.'' His newest book, ''Cooked: A Natural History of Transformation,'' adds a corollary: ''And cook it yourself.''
No time? People always have time for what they consider important, and what is more important than your health? Home-cooked food contains better ingredients, and you know what you're eating.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); DIETING (77%); OILS & FATS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); FAST FOOD (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



667 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: China: North Korea Releases Crew of Chinese Boat

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- North Korea has released a Chinese fishing boat and its crew, ending a dispute that threatened to exacerbate strains with China, according to Chinese news reports on Tuesday. 
The Chinese Foreign Affairs Ministry revealed the incident on Sunday and urged North Korea to free the 16 fishermen and their vessel, which the North seized in waters between the countries on May 5. People's Daily, the Communist Party's main newspaper, reported that the Chinese Embassy in North Korea said the boat and crew had been released and were heading home. The report did not say whether North Korea received a payment, as it had demanded.
The Foreign Ministry said on Sunday that the vessel's owner, Yu Xuejun, had called the Chinese Embassy in Pyongyang on May 10 to seek help after North Korea captured the fishing boat, which operates from Dalian, a northeastern Chinese port city.
The ministry did not explain why it had waited so long to reveal the seizure, which has come at a time of brittle tensions with North Korea, an isolated country that depends on Beijing for diplomatic and economic support.
China has long supported North Korea, despite disagreement over the North's nuclear activities, and many Chinese experts see the North as a strategic shield against potential regional domination by the United States and its allies, South Korea and Japan. But in recent months, signs of irritation have surfaced in the two countries' relations.
The announcement about the captured boat promptly drew an outcry from Chinese media and citizens online, some of whom have already expressed increasing impatience with North Korea over its nuclear weapons ambitions and threats to the region. Since Saturday, the North has launched several short-range projectiles into waters off its east coast.
The Chinese media reports said that the boat was seized with 16 men aboard, and that the North Korean authorities demanded payment of 600,000 renminbi, or about $98,000, to release them and the vessel, apparently on the grounds that it was fishing in waters claimed by North Korea. The deadline for payment was Sunday, the Beijing Times newspaper said.
The owner of the boat, Mr. Yu, drew public attention to its capture through messages on Tencent Weibo, a Chinese microblog service. And on Monday he issued a message saying that he feared his crew had been beaten.
''The captain of the seized boat communicated using a satellite phone, and when I asked questions, it was clear that he didn't dare speak,'' Mr. Yu wrote. ''We're afraid that the crew have been beaten.''
Earlier this month, the state-controlled Bank of China said that it had ceased dealing with the North Korean Foreign Trade Bank, in what appeared to be a move supported by the Chinese government to show impatience with the North. Since then, other Chinese banks have taken similar steps.
In May of last year, Beijing disclosed that three Chinese vessels had been seized by North Korea, which demanded payment of a fine before it released them and the crew. They were freed several days after Beijing made the incident public.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); BANKING IN CHINA (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (59%); BANCO LATINOAMERICANO DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR SA (50%)

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (59%); BLX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



668 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Senate Panel Is Expected to Castigate Apple on Tax Tactics

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Members of the United States Senate are expected to sharply criticize Apple's global tax tactics while questioning the company's chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, at a Congressional hearing on Tuesday. 
Apple, one of the most profitable companies in American history, has shielded billions of dollars from tax collectors around the globe by moving revenue to offshore subsidiaries and taking advantage of tax loopholes, according to company documents and tax experts.
Apple has more than $100 billion in cash assigned to foreign subsidiaries, where it is not taxed by the United States. Some of those subsidiaries, though technically lodged in Europe, are fully controlled by Apple's executives in Cupertino, Calif.
When Mr. Cook and other top-ranking Apple executives appear tomorrow before the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, lawmakers are expected to question them on Apple's use of tax loopholes and shell companies to escape paying corporate income taxes on much of its profit.
Mr. Cook is expected to tell lawmakers that Apple is the largest corporate income taxpayer in the United States, according to a copy of his testimony posted online by the company. Apple, according to that testimony, paid nearly $6 billion in federal taxes last year, and ''does not use tax gimmicks.'' Moreover, Mr. Cook is expected to call for a sweeping reform of the federal corporate tax code. In particular, he will call for lowering rates on companies moving overseas earnings back to the United States.
''What he's asking for is a reward for having gamed the system,'' said Edward D. Kleinbard, the former chief of staff at the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, and now a law professor at the University of Southern California.
Apple referred all questions to its posted testimony.
The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, led by Senators Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat and John McCain, an Arizona Republican, has been investigating technology companies, including Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft, for years over complaints that such firms are taking advantage of an outdated tax code.
Apple provides a window on how technology giants have taken advantage of tax codes written for an industrial age and ill suited to today's digital economy. Some profit at companies like Apple, Google, Amazon, H.P. and Microsoft derive not from physical goods but from royalties on intellectual property, like the patents on software that makes devices work.
Other times, the products themselves are digital, like downloaded songs. It is much easier for businesses with royalties and digital products to move profit to low-tax countries than it is, say, for grocery stores or automakers. A downloaded application, unlike a car, can be sold from anywhere.
The growing digital economy presents a conundrum for lawmakers overseeing corporate taxation: although technology is now one of the nation's largest and most valued industries, many tech companies are among the least taxed, according to government and corporate data. As of last year, the 71 technology companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- including Apple, Google, Yahoo and Dell -- reported paying worldwide cash taxes at a rate that, on average, was a third less than other S.&â[#x20ac][0/00]P. companies'.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ROYALTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INCOME TAX (75%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); HISTORY (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); PATENTS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



669 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: E.R.'s Account for Half of Hospital Admissions, Study Says

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Emergency rooms account for about half of the nation's hospital admissions and accounted for virtually all of the rise in admissions between 2003 and 2009, according to a study released on Monday.
Although emergency rooms are widely considered expensive places for diagnostic care, physicians are increasingly relying on them to determine whether a patient needs to be hospitalized.
The study's findings raise important questions about how emergency rooms contribute to high health care costs in the United States and what their role will be in the future as the nation undergoes fundamental changes in health care delivery. One goal of the Obama administration's health care law was to reduce reliance on costly emergency room care. 
The report by the RAND Corporation, a nonprofit research group, was done for a consortium of emergency medicine physician organizations. RAND, which says it was chosen for its independence, says the sponsors had no say in the report's findings.
Emergency rooms have long been a source of medical care beyond treating people with immediate life-threatening conditions, the report notes. ''It is not just an emergency department, and it hasn't been for 20 years,'' said Dr. Arthur L. Kellermann, a senior RAND researcher and emergency physician who is one of the study's authors.
The emergency room serves as a place to get immediate care in the evenings and weekends, he said, and where patients can get ''complex, time-efficient diagnostic workups.''
The RAND researchers, who studied hospital admissions in the United States from 2003 to 2009, said increasing numbers of patients were being admitted through emergency rooms. ''They are the entryway for the hospital for unscheduled admissions,'' Dr. Kellermann said.
Nearly all of the increase in hospital admissions during that period was because of a 17 percent increase in unscheduled admissions made from emergency rooms, according to the report. Over the same period, there was a 10 percent decline in admissions from doctors' offices and similar settings.
Doctors are sending patients to the emergency room when they are not available to see a patient or when someone needs sophisticated tests to determine quickly whether they are seriously ill. Patients frequently go to the emergency room because they feel they have no alternative, and the researchers also noted that emergency rooms served as a medical safety net for patients without health insurance.
While some hospital executives may be pressing physicians to admit patients to fill beds, Dr. Kellermann predicted that changing the payment system so hospitals were no longer rewarded for the volume of tests and treatments they provide would change the dynamic. ''I think you'll see a 180'' degree turn in their attitude, he said.
The study did not reach a definitive conclusion about whether patients in managed care plans who came to the emergency room were less likely to be admitted than those who were not enrolled in such plans.
The report concludes that it is not clear exactly how emergency rooms contribute to the nation's health care costs. ''The real money,'' Dr. Kellermann said, is in the care provided for patients admitted to the hospital, which accounts for almost a third of the nation's health care bill.
The question for policy makers, he said, is whether the emergency room is the appropriate place to determine whether someone goes home or is admitted for treatment. Patients may benefit from the speed and thoroughness of the diagnosis taking place in the emergency room, compared to seeing multiple doctors and getting multiple tests to determine what is wrong. But the expense could be much higher, and emergency physicians may be too eager to order costly tests.
''Policy analysts need to assess which is the more efficient,'' Dr. Kellermann said.
There may even be reason to believe that emergency room physicians are good at keeping patients out of the hospital if they do not need to be there, according to the RAND researchers.
The researchers said about emergency departments, ''Our findings offer early evidence, albeit inconclusive, that E.D.'s are already having a positive impact'' by preventing so-called potentially preventable hospital admissions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY ROOMS (96%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (79%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (79%); HOSPITALS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



670 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: The Military That Was Only for Show

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
World War II has provided an endless number of true stories in recent years, as ''greatest-generation'' appreciation has come into vogue, and we have perhaps grown to expect a certain rhythm in these accounts. A mission accomplished amid much bravery and loss. Memories of horror and heroism carried silently for decades.
''The Ghost Army,'' on Tuesday on PBS, reminds us that in a conflict as sweeping as the Second World War, not every story fits that template. What about missions that brought few direct confrontations with the enemy and offered only fragmentary ways to measure success? 
This documentary chronicles the efforts of the 23rd Headquarters Special Troops, 1,100 men whose job was to create a fake army that would be deployed in Europe to try to confuse the Germans. The intent was to create the illusion of troop strength or to make it seem as if an offensive would be launched in one place, when the true attack point was different. And sometimes, more dangerously, the hope was that the fake army would draw fire, sparing troops elsewhere.
The unit, the program relates, was full of artists and designers who tried to envision what a scene would look like from a German reconnaissance plane and, just as important, what it would sound like. They came up with inflatable tanks and artillery pieces that appeared remarkably real (though deflation was a constant concern -- a limp gun barrel on an artillery piece was something of a giveaway). One veteran of the unit, Arthur Shilstone, describes a moment when four soldiers picked up one of those tanks effortlessly while two French civilians looked on dumbfounded.
''I finally said, 'The Americans are very strong,' '' he recalls.
The unit also recorded sounds of troop and vehicle movements, which were blared from speakers in the back of trucks to create an auditory illusion. And it broadcast fake radio traffic for the benefit of German eavesdroppers. Considerable attention was paid to detail. Insignia were changed to mimic those of real units, and radio traffic was tailored to the illusion that was being created.
''One of the things that the 23rd did was it studied its own army's transmissions,'' says Jonathan Gawne, author of ''Ghosts of the ETO: American Tactical Deception Units in the European Theater, 1944-1945.'' ''So they knew, if they were simulating an infantry regiment moving across an area, how many times a day would the regiments send messages to battalion, would battalion send messages to regiments.''
The program also details an unusual legacy of the 23rd: the paintings and drawings that the artists made during their down time. Some members went on to careers in art and design, including Bill Blass, of fashion fame.
The 23rd was deployed at battles in France, Luxembourg and elsewhere, ultimately finding itself at the final crossing of the Rhine in March 1945, near the war's end. Throughout their mission, members of the unit knew they were having an effect only when they drew fire. The more amorphous hoped-for result, sowing seeds of confusion, was harder to pin down.
So veterans of this part of the war have had to content themselves with a less cut-and-dried memory of their contributions than many carried away from the conflict.
''One mother or one new bride was spared the agony of putting a gold star in their front window,'' Stan Nance, a sergeant in the radio unit, says. ''That's what the 23rd Headquarters was all about.''
The Ghost Army
On PBS stations on Tuesday night (check local listings).
Written, directed and produced by Rick Beyer; edited by Jon Neuburger; Dillard Morrison, director or photography; original music by Matt Mariano; narrated by Peter Coyote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Ghost Army, on PBS stations on Tuesday night (check local listings). Top, a rubber M4 Sherman tank. Above, Bill Blass, of the 23rd Headquarters Special Troops, who became a fashion designer. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); WRITERS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); PAINTING (71%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (87%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



671 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: China's Entrenched Gender Gap

BYLINE: By LETA HONG FINCHER

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Lately, a stream of rosy media accounts has been telling the world to look to China as a model of gender equality in the workplace. ''China Dominates List of Female Billionaires'' and ''Women in China: the Sky's the Limit'' are some recent examples from the international press.
But the cascade of optimistic portraits detracts from what is really happening to women in China's fast-growing urban work force. They are losing ground fast.
The 2010 census put the percentage of working-age women in the work force at 74. The figure stacks up well against other countries such as the United States and Australia, where about 75 percent of working-age women were employed in 2010. In Sweden, the female labor force participation for 2010 was 87.5 percent; France, 84 percent; Britain, 79 percent. 
But China's figure is high because it includes women working in the countryside, and unlike developed countries, nearly half of China's population is still rural. The picture for urban women is very different.
China's urban employment rate for working-age women fell to a new low of 60.8 percent in 2010, down from 77.4 percent 20 years earlier, according to census figures. The 2010 rate was 20.3 percentage points lower than that of men.
This troubling trend matters because the effort to move people from the countryside to the cities is a top policy priority of China's new leaders -- one that they see as crucial to boosting economic growth.
China's urbanization rate is expected to rise to 53.37 percent this year, and Chinese state media say that 60 percent of China's population of nearly 1.4 billion will likely be urban by 2020. Yet the presumed economic benefits of urbanization cannot be realized if the talents of half the country's population -- women -- are squandered in the process.
The decline in urban women's labor participation looks even worse if you go further back, to the end of the 1970s, when studies show that over 90 percent of working-age women in the cities were employed.
That resulted from the Communist Party's mass mobilization of its people to bolster the nation's productivity. Mao declared his commitment to gender equality through his famous saying that ''women hold up half the sky.'' But the state-imposed equal employment of women and men failed to transform underlying gender relations.
Behind the public celebration of gender equality in the Communist workplace, women continued to shoulder the heavy burdens of childcare, housework and cooking at home.
The decline in urban women's labor force participation started to become apparent when China fired tens of millions of workers at state-owned enterprises in the 1990s as part of a reorganization of the national economy. Women were fired disproportionately over men. Many of the women were rehired later at much lower rates than men who were fired.
Around the same time, a ''Women Return to the Home'' movement emerged, calling on women to quit their jobs to make way for men in a time of rising unemployment. Over the years, these attitudes have taken hold: There has been a resurgence of belief in traditional gender roles.
Most Chinese men and women still believe in the saying that ''men belong in public, women belong at home'' (nanzhuwai, nüzhunei). The number of men and women who think this way has increased by eight percentage points and four percentage points respectively over the past decade, according to a 2010 survey by the All-China Women's Federation and National Bureau of Statistics.
One advertising art director I interviewed in Beijing was successful in her field until she had a child at the age of 33. She thought she could afford to leave her job for a couple of years to look after her baby without hurting her career. She was wrong. Now 37 years old, she has had no luck getting rehired. ''I am very worried about my future because it is so difficult for a woman of my age to find work,'' she says.
To make matters worse, since 2007 the central government has conducted a propaganda media campaign on ''leftover'' women (sheng nü), stigmatizing urban, educated women over the age of 27 who are still single. The barrage of insults has intensified pressure on urban, educated women to abandon their efforts to pursue higher education and to focus instead on getting married before they become ''too old'' to find a husband.
Nowadays, if a Chinese woman succeeds in going to college and has the resourcefulness to finish a master's degree as well, she is likely around 25 by the time she graduates. According to the official Xinhua News Agency, women aged 25 to 27 fall within the first category of ''leftover warriors'' (sheng doushi) who ''still have the courage to fight to find a partner.''
There are some encouraging developments. Record numbers of women in China are receiving a college education and taking the GMAT entrance test for business schools worldwide, for example. But many of these women are anxious to leave China precisely because they face so much gender discrimination at home.
If the Chinese government wants to halt the trend of declining female participation in the labor force in its cities, it must start tackling the problem of entrenched gender inequality.
End the state media campaign against ''leftover'' women. Stop imposing gender-based quotas that favor the admission of men over women in many university programs. Enforce laws against gender discrimination in hiring and compensation. Introduce and enforce a law against sexual harassment in the workplace. Introduce and enforce a law to punish perpetrators of domestic violence. Reverse the erosion of government subsidized childcare, which forces many mothers out of paid work. Reverse the 2011 Supreme Court amendment to the Marriage Law, which dealt a severe blow to the property rights of married women. Appoint more women to political office.
All of these policy changes have to start at the top. The new leadership, first and foremost, has to declare publicly a firm commitment to raising the status of the nation's women.
China's economy may manage to keep growing while urban women are dropping out of the work force, but at the cost of extreme, deepening and potentially destabilizing inequality.
In the meantime, some educated women are behaving like one young Beijinger I met, who wanted to make herself a more attractive marriage candidate, less intimidating to suitors. ''My most important duty is to find a good man to marry,'' she said. How did she fulfill that duty? By dropping out of the work force.
Leta Hong Fincher, a doctoral candidate in sociology at Tsinghua University in Beijing, is the author of a forthcoming book on ''leftover'' women and gender inequality in China.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); URBANIZATION (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CENSUS (76%); CITIES (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); CHILD CARE (50%)

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (72%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



672 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Underground Lender Gets Death Sentence in China

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- A businesswoman in southern China has been sentenced to death on charges of defrauding investors as the government tightens controls on informal financing that is widely used by entrepreneurs.
The woman, Lin Haiyan, was convicted of ''illegal fundraising'' for collecting 640 million renminbi, or $100 million, from investors by promising high returns and low risk, according to a statement by the Intermediate People's Court of Wenzhou. It said that the plan had collapsed in October 2011 and that 428 million renminbi could not be recovered.
The case highlighted potential abuses in the largely unregulated informal lending that supports entrepreneurs who generate China's new jobs and wealth but often cannot get loans from the state-owned banking industry. The government is tightening controls after a surge of defaults following the global financial crisis set off protests by lenders. 
Another businesswoman from Wenzhou was also sentenced to death last year on charges of illegal fund-raising. That penalty was overturned following an outcry on the Internet and she was sentenced to prison.
Communist leaders have promised more bank lending for entrepreneurs and announced a pilot project in 2012 in Wenzhou to allow closely supervised private sector lending. But business leaders in Wenzhou say it is harder for entrepreneurs to get loans because worsening economic conditions have made banks and private sources reluctant to lend.
The underground credit market is estimated by China's central bank and private sector analysts at 2 trillion to 4 trillion renminbi, or as much as 7 percent of total lending. In some areas, informal lending exceeds that of official banks.
Many households provide money for private lending in an effort to get a better return than the low deposit rates paid by Chinese banks, which effectively force depositors to subsidize low-interest loans to state industry.
The authorities have sentenced 1,449 people to prison terms of at least five years for involvement in underground lending since 2011, a police official, Du Jinfu, said last month.
Legal experts say loans between individuals are legal and that the government has failed to make clear what lenders and borrowers are allowed to do.
''The distinction between illegal fund-raising and private lending still remains unclear,'' the Dui Hua Foundation, a group based in San Francisco that researches China's justice system, said in a report in February.
Ms. Lin started raising money from friends, relatives and co-workers in 2007, according to a statement on the court's Web site. It said Ms. Lin had told investors the money was going into stock offerings and bank deposits but used it to speculate in stocks.
Even as losses mounted, Ms. Lin continued to raise money until the scheme collapsed, the court said.
The statement said the penalty still must be confirmed. All death sentences in China are automatically appealed to the country's highest court for review.
The court took the unusual step of issuing a second statement to support sentencing Ms. Lin to death after a Chinese blogger questioned the penalty in a comment that included the phrase ''killing the witness.''
''Lin Haiyan's actions constituted financial fraud that caused huge losses and seriously damaged the people and the state,'' said the statement, which was several times the length of the original announcement. It criticized the blogger for challenging the court's decision.
Protests erupted in 2011 and early 2012 in cities and towns throughout central China and along the southeast coast, areas with large concentrations of small private businesses, after the slowdown in global trade set off a wave of defaults. Schoolteachers, retirees and others who had lent to entrepreneurs demanded the authorities get back their money.
Regulators also worried that banks and state companies had gotten involved in underground lending, exposing the official financial system to unreported risks.
In the earlier case in Wenzhou, an entrepreneur, Wu Ying, was sentenced to death for improperly raising 770 million renminbi from investors in 2005-7. Ms. Wu, who started with a hair salon and built a business empire, had earlier been praised by the state news media as a role model for female entrepreneurs.
The Chinese Supreme Court overturned Ms. Wu's death sentence following an outcry on the Internet over the severity of the penalty. She was resentenced to death with a two-year reprieve, which usually is commuted to a long prison term.
A statement on the Web site of China's highest court, dated in 2011, says charges of ''illegal fundraising'' can be applied to an individual who receives more than 200,000 renminbi of informal loans or causes losses to lenders of 100,000 renminbi. Enterprises can face charges if they receive 1 million renminbi or cause losses of 2.5 million renminbi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (93%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); LITIGATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); APPEALS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); POLICE FORCES (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) SOUTH CHINA (89%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



673 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Cul-de-Sac Poverty

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KNEEBONE and ALAN BERUBE. 
Elizabeth Kneebone and Alan Berube, fellows in the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution, are the authors of ''Confronting Suburban Poverty in America.''

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- LONG before Robert F. Kennedy toured Appalachia and the Mississippi Delta in 1964, before Jimmy Carter walked through the South Bronx in 1977, Americans thought of poverty as synonymous with inner cities and rural hinterlands.
But in the 1990s, poverty in suburbia began to accelerate at a faster rate than poverty in the cities. Sometime after the 2001 recession, more poor people lived in suburbs than in cities for the first time (even though the poverty rate remains higher in cities). The Great Recession, set off by a subprime mortgage crisis that began in suburbs and exurbs, accelerated the trend.
In 2011, the suburban poor outnumbered the urban poor by three million; from 2000 to 2011, the number of poor people soared by 64 percent in the suburbs, compared with 29 percent in cities. Today nearly one-third of all Americans are poor or nearly poor. One in three poor Americans live in the suburbs. If you're poor in the Seattle, Atlanta or Chicago regions, you're more likely than not living outside the city limits.
The 10 metropolitan regions that saw the highest increases in suburban poverty between 2000 and 2010 stretched across the nation: Cape Coral, in southwestern Florida; Greensboro, N.C.; Colorado Springs; Atlanta; Grand Rapids, Mich.; Dayton, Ohio; Detroit; Youngstown, Ohio; Boise, Idaho; and Salt Lake City. 
The differences between the Midwest, and the South and West, are significant.
In communities like Lakewood, Ohio, west of Cleveland, and Penn Hills, Pa., east of Pittsburgh, the long-run decline of manufacturing jobs lowered income in an already suburbanized work force. Small suburbs south of Chicago, like Harvey and Blue Island, Ill., became home to low-income families pushed out of the central cities by higher housing costs, a pattern also occurring in the Northeast. Restrictive zoning, redlining and limits on annexation reinforced patterns of segregation and blocked struggling cities from absorbing affluent suburbs, as cities did in the 19th century.
Suburban poverty in the South and West is more closely associated with demographic change. South of Seattle, small communities like Tukwila, Wash., were transformed over two decades by the arrival of refugees from the Balkans, East Africa and the Himalayas. The growing job base east of Houston attracted low-income Latinos to formerly middle-class white suburbs like Pasadena, Tex. In Antioch, Calif., at the eastern edge of the San Francisco Bay Area, lower-income black households used subsidized vouchers to rent homes from owners who were underwater because of the foreclosure crisis.
To be sure, there are some relative benefits to being poor in the suburbs, which, compared with inner cities sometimes offer better schools, greater socioeconomic diversity, safer streets and, if there are jobs nearby, shorter commutes. The Fair Housing Act of 1968, the introduction of Section 8 housing vouchers in the 1980s, and the demolition of distressed public housing in the 1990s were all part of a benign effort to de-concentrate poverty and open suburbia to low-income households, especially members of minority groups, who had been excluded for generations.
But the suburbs haven't kept up with rising demand for services. In Penn Hills, public transportation is modest, and runs in and out of downtown Pittsburgh -- not to other suburbs where lower-skilled jobs are more plentiful. In Tukwila, the small school district has struggled to prepare hundreds of non-English-speaking low-income students for state-mandated achievement tests. In Antioch, social services were overwhelmed after the housing market crashed.
Those struggles reflect the fact that policies to help poor places -- as opposed to poor people -- haven't evolved much beyond the War on Poverty's neighborhood-based solutions. Many federal programs were designed for urban neighborhoods: Head Start and Community Health Centers, in 1965; the Community Development Block Grant, to promote economic development, in 1974; the HOPE VI program, to modernize distressed public housing, in 1992; the Obama administration's Promise Neighborhoods, which is based on the Harlem Children's Zone and tries to coordinate school and family support, in 2010.
These approaches are often ill suited for suburbs, where poverty is more diffuse, where the institutions and expertise to help the poor are lacking, and where local leaders sometimes resist such programs, fearing they will only attract more poor residents.
Moreover, the aid is fragmented. In a new book, we estimate that the federal government spends $82 billion on place-based efforts to combat poverty, but fragments that effort among more than 80 programs across 10 different agencies. Delivering services across more than one jurisdiction means that nonprofit groups, which provide services under government contracts, must grapple with multiple bureaucracies, regulations and reporting structures.
Innovative organizations are struggling to address suburban poverty. In the Houston area, a nonprofit agency called Neighborhood Centers blends 35 different federal programs with state, local and private dollars to provide a continuum of education, child care, financial and immigration services to more than 400,000 people a year at over 60 different sites. But federal requirements force the agency to maintain 40 different data systems, and report separately on each program throughout the year to several federal agencies.
Two groups in the Chicago area -- the Chicago Southland Housing and Community Development Collaborative and the West Cook County Housing Collaborative -- have joined forces to blend public and private money to mitigate the fallout from the foreclosure crisis in the city's southern and western suburbs. But they've encountered bureaucratic roadblocks in using federal grants across more than one jurisdiction.
We need to transform social policy for the age of suburban poverty. But reforming 80-plus programs one by one is neither efficient nor realistic. Instead, we should equip regions with aid that cuts across jurisdictional lines, help them use limited resources more efficiently, and reinvent the system from the ground up.
By carving out just 5 percent of what the federal government now spends on place-based antipoverty efforts (around $4 billion), we could create a competitive grant program focused on increasing access to economic opportunity. Call it a ''Metropolitan Opportunity Challenge.'' It would give states and localities an incentive to join forces to compete for federal dollars. President Obama's Race to the Top educational program already provides such a model: it gave the Seattle Public Schools and six suburban districts, including Tukwila, an award to reduce achievement gaps and to ensure that high school graduates were prepared for college or entering competitive fields.
Getting Congress to act in this age of gridlock is a tall order. But state and local policy makers can also help, by putting their scarce discretionary antipoverty resources behind organizations that have proved their ability to provide services in both urban and suburban communities.
Americans moved to the suburbs after World War II to escape the problem of poverty in cities. Running away is no longer an option -- the cities' traditional woes are now in the suburbs, too. We have to recognize that the face of American poverty is an increasingly suburban one, and act accordingly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); FAMILY (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FAIR LENDING (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); FORECLOSURE (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); ZONING (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (61%); MOUNTAINS (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (55%); REFUGEES (50%)

COMPANY: PENN HILLS (54%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (52%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



674 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: North Korea: Another Day of Short-Range Launchings

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korea launched two short-range projectiles into waters off its east coast for a third straight day on Monday, officials here said, despite warnings from the United States and South Korea against increasing tensions. 
The North has conducted six such launchings since Saturday, in what are believed to be tests of short-range guided missiles or rockets from multiple launchers, officials said.
''We remain vigilant for the possibility that the North may launch more,'' a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry said, insisting upon anonymity until his government made a formal announcement.
He said a projectile was launched in a northeasterly direction on Monday morning, followed by another in the afternoon.
North Korea said the launchings were part of normal military drills. In a statement carried by Pyongyang's official Korean Central News Agency, the North's Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland said it was ''brigandish sophism'' for Washington and Seoul to accuse the North of raising tensions when they recently staged far bigger military exercises involving a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier.
Kim Jang-soo, the national security director at the presidential office in Seoul, responded to the first launching on Monday by affirming South Korea's call for the North to stop firing missiles. He said that the launchings, whether intended to test Pyongyang's weapons or to demonstrate its firepower, ''raised tensions,'' said Kim Haing, a presidential spokeswoman.
After months of bellicose language from the North, relative quiet had appeared to be settling on the Korean Peninsula until Saturday, when the North suddenly launched three missiles or rockets and followed with another launching on Sunday. The moves have rattled the region, where governments remain puzzled about Pyongyang's motives.
North Korea routinely tests its short-range missiles, which are primarily a threat to South Korea and the American military bases there. But analysts say the North's missile tests are often timed to push Washington and Seoul to consider economic and diplomatic concessions.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



675 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Obama Couples Praise for Burmese Leader With Warning Against Violence

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and STEVEN LEE MYERS; Mark Landler contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama encouraged the wave of reform that has transformed the onetime pariah state of Myanmar into an emerging touchstone of change in Asia, but pointedly warned the country's visiting leader on Monday that violence against minority Muslims ''needs to stop.''
In welcoming President Thein Sein of Myanmar to the White House, the first leader of his country invited to the seat of American power in nearly a half-century, Mr. Obama hoped to nurse the impoverished nation's fragile political opening while forestalling any backsliding. He offered strong praise for Mr. Thein Sein while also nudging him to ease repression further. 
''What has allowed this shift in relations is the leadership that President Sein has shown in moving Myanmar down a path of both political and economic reform,'' Mr. Obama said in the Oval Office, with Mr. Thein Sein seated next to him.
Mr. Obama hailed the release of political prisoners and loosening of restrictions on the opposition. ''We've seen credible elections and a legislature that is continuing to make strides in the direction of more inclusivity and greater representation of all the various groups within Myanmar,'' he said.
But Mr. Obama raised the continuing violence against Muslim communities, which government security forces have not prevented and in some cases have been directly involved in, according to independent reports by human rights groups and the American government. A couple of dozen protesters chanted and held up signs outside the White House accusing the government of violent repression.
''The displacement of people, the violence directed towards them, needs to stop,'' Mr. Obama said. ''As I've indicated to President Sein,'' he added, ''countries that are successful are countries that tapped into the talents of all people and respect the rights of all people.''
Mr. Thein Sein responded by promising attention to the problems without making any specific public commitments. ''Our democratic government is just two years old,'' he said. ''We still need a lot of democratic experience and practices to be learned. And we have seen successes. At the same time, we have been encountering obstacles and challenges along our democratization process.''
Mr. Obama has made Myanmar a personal priority in recent years, seeing it as a symbolically important example of his 2009 inaugural vow to reach out to rogue states that showed they were ''willing to unclench your fist.'' He sent the first American ambassador in more than two decades, relaxed sanctions and in November became the first sitting American president to visit the country.
In his public remarks on Monday, he referred to the country as Myanmar, the name given it by the military junta that dominated it for many years, even though official American policy is still to use its former name, Burma. Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Obama had done so as a ''diplomatic courtesy'' even though the policy has not changed.
The outreach to Myanmar has been seen as a counter to China's influence in the region, although the Obama administration does not discuss it in that context. Shortly after Monday's meeting, in what aides said was an unrelated decision, the White House announced that Mr. Obama will meet with President Xi Jingping of China in California on June 7 and 8, their first meeting since Mr. Xi's ascension as leader.
Either way, the administration remains deeply troubled by Myanmar's repressive policies and actions. On the same day of Mr. Thein Sein's White House visit, the State Department released its annual report on religious freedom around the world and singled out Myanmar as one of eight countries with particularly egregious records of protecting religious belief and practice. (The others were China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Uzbekistan.)
The report cited communal violence last year that targeted Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine State, killing more than 250 and displacing tens of thousands of others from their homes. It also documented what it said was government complicity in the violence, including the involvement of security officers from the Nasaka, an arm of the Ministry of Border Affairs, in burning villages in Rakhine.
The report also cited the rape and torture of a Christian woman by 10 army officials in a church in the town of Pan Wa, near the Chinese border. ''The government did not hold these officials accountable,'' the report said.
''We didn't see any improvement of religious freedom,'' Suzan Johnson Cook, the ambassador at large for international religious freedom, said Monday when discussing Myanmar.
While the administration has eased sanctions against Myanmar, most recently lifting a sweeping ban on travel to the United States, the momentum for relaxing more has slowed, especially on Capitol Hill. Late last week, Representative Joseph Crowley, Democrat from New York, introduced legislation to renew a ban on imports from Myanmar, particularly jade and other gems, first imposed in 2008 after a crackdown on protests by Buddhist monks.
Human Rights Watch said the timing of Mr. Thein Sein's visit was puzzling because the reform process in Myanmar had stalled since Mr. Obama's landmark visit in November. While the Myanmar government has set up a commission to handle the release of political prisoners -- and has released some prisoners -- the number of people in jail for political reasons has actually increased since Mr. Obama was there, because of new arrests.
''At the White House, they're getting in the habit of saying, 'A year ago, who could have imagined?' '' said John Sifton, the Asia director for Human Rights Watch. ''But the fact is, very little progress has been made.''
At the time of Mr. Obama's visit, he noted, Myanmar's government made 11 commitments, including allowing the United Nations to establish a human rights office in the country and giving aid groups unfettered access to the strife-torn northern and eastern regions of the country.
Most of those commitments have fallen short, Mr. Sifton said, and some -- like the establishment of the United Nations office -- could have been done through administrative fiat by Mr. Thein Sein. Mr. Sifton said the administration appeared intent on propping up Mr. Thien Sien because of fears that if he were put under too much international pressure, it could embolden hard-line elements of the military to oust him. He said the fears were misplaced.
''The idea that all of this will prevent a coup is laughable,'' Mr. Sifton said. ''They suffer from this over-stressing of a coup.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); RELIGION (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DISPLACED PERSONS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); THEIN SEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



676 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Regimens: LDL Levels Stagnate in U.S.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

 BODY:
Average levels of LDL, the so-called bad cholesterol, declined significantly in Americans from 2001 to 2008, but have remained steady ever since. No one knows why. 
Using the database of a medical testing company, researchers checked LDL values in the blood of almost 105 million men and women age 18 and older. After adjusting for age, they found that average LDL declined steadily at a rate of 2.05 milligrams per deciliter per year, to 104.7 in 2008 from 120 in 2001.
But the study, published in the May issue of PLoS One, found that over the next three years, there was almost no change, with levels in 2011 averaging 104.3. A reading under 100 is generally considered healthy, but some experts recommend getting to 70 or below, especially for people with heart disease.
The scientists offer three possible explanations. The recession that began in 2008 may have made people stop seeing doctors or buying cholesterol-lowering statins; the benefits of taking the drugs reached their maximum; or increasing obesity began to overwhelm the drugs' beneficial effects.
''We've raised a red flag that something dramatic happened,'' said the lead author, Dr. Harvey W. Kaufman, senior medical director at Quest Diagnostics, a medical testing company. ''We laid out some theories, and it's now up to investigators to determine why.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOLESTEROL (95%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); OBESITY (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (73%); WRITERS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%)

COMPANY: QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INC (52%)

TICKER: DGX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (52%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



677 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe Prepare to Settle Chinese Solar Panel Cases

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The Obama administration and the European Union have each decided to negotiate settlements with China in the world's largest antidumping and antisubsidy trade cases involving China's roughly $30 billion a year in solar panel shipments to the West, officials and trade advisers in Beijing, Brussels and Washington said.
The plan that is starting to take shape would essentially carve up the global solar panel market into a series of regional markets. It would sharply raise the price of solar panels exported from China, the world's dominant producer, by requiring Chinese companies to charge more while limiting the total number of solar panels they could ship. 
In exchange, Chinese companies would no longer be charged steep taxes on their exports of solar panels. The United States is already collecting tariffs totaling about 30 percent while the European Union is expected to impose similar tariffs of about 50 percent on June 5, and may backdate them to March 5.
Parallel decisions by the Obama administration and the European Union to separately negotiate high prices for imported solar panels may prove unpopular among environmentalists. Some environmental groups are already upset that the tariffs have made solar energy less affordable, making it less competitive with more polluting fossil fuels.
Huge shipments from China have driven solar panel prices down by three-quarters in the last four years. American and European producers contend that much of that decline represents the effect of Chinese government subsidies and Chinese dumping of solar panels below the cost of producing them, which means that a negotiated settlement could need to push prices up significantly.
The goal of the current tariffs, and of the price and quantity regulations that could replace them, is to protect American and European manufacturers from what they and the Obama administration describe as unfair competition. Western manufacturers and the administration say that Chinese solar panels are heavily subsidized by the Chinese government and then dumped in foreign markets at prices far below the cost of production.
Two dozen American and European solar panel manufacturers have already cut back production or gone bankrupt in the last three years, moves widely attributed to Chinese imports.
Francisco Sanchez, the under secretary of commerce for international trade, has just flown to Beijing for a visit to discuss civilian nuclear power trade issues, people with a detailed knowledge of his visit said. Mr. Sanchez has a long agenda of bilateral trade issues to discuss that includes mentioning an American interest in negotiations, a person with detailed knowledge of his visit said.
The Commerce Department deferred on Monday to the United States trade representative's office about what Mr. Sanchez would say in Beijing about solar panels.
The Obama administration is in the earliest stages of sounding out Congress about the shift toward replacing tariffs with a negotiated settlement. Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat whose state is a center of solar panel production, said that he supported a negotiated deal.
''We are really at a fork in the road with respect to producing renewable energy technology in the United States,'' he said. ''This is the moment for the administration to obtain a global agreement that levels the playing field for American producers and provides the certainty needed for America's renewable energy, and solar sector in particular, to survive.''
Chinese producers have partly bypassed the American tariffs by performing one stage in the solar panel manufacturing process outside mainland China: turning solar wafers into solar cells in nearby Taiwan.
A negotiated deal would close the loophole in the American tariffs; the European trade case does not have the same loophole.
China has retaliated for American and European tariffs on solar panels by moving to impose steep tariffs on imports of the main raw material for solar panels, polysilicon. A negotiated settlement would also involve China's removal of these retaliatory tariffs.
Under American and European laws, antidumping and antisubsidy tariffs cannot be replaced with a negotiated settlement unless the domestic industry agrees. European and American producers have been wary of accepting any negotiated deal that does not set a large increase in prices.
''It has to be reasonably high to really exclude the impact of dumping,'' said a European industry official who insisted on anonymity.
Negotiations with China are still in a very early stage, so it may take several months before a final deal, if any, is struck. And it is possible that no deal will emerge at all, in which case steep American tariffs will remain in place and European taxes will also be imposed.
Carol J. Guthrie, the spokeswoman for the White House's Office of the United States Trade Representative, declined to comment on whether the administration was negotiating with China.
''Our goal is to support a healthy global solar industry in conditions that foster the adoption of renewable energy and continued innovation and a level playing field for all,'' she said. ''Toward those ends, we will continue to work with industry and our trading partners to explore ways to resolve concerns.''
China's Ministry of Commerce had no comment on Monday in response to questions submitted by phone and by fax about the American initiative. But Li Junfeng, a senior energy policy maker at the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's top economic planning agency, said that China would welcome negotiations.
''Negotiations are better than a fight -- a fight hurts both sides,'' said Mr. Li, who is also the president of the government-controlled Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association. ''You should have some quota or market share, that would be fair.''
But a European Union official cautioned that reaching a negotiated settlement would be difficult. European negotiators have already met three times with Chinese officials at the request of the Chinese side, but at none of these meetings has China put forward any plan to limit export volumes or raise prices, said the official, who also insisted on anonymity.
The solar panel issue has emerged as an unexpected challenge for when the world's trade ministers gather from Dec. 3-6 in Bali to negotiate a global deal to broaden the World Trade Organization. If no negotiated settlement is reached before then, inflexible European Union regulations require a final decision by Dec. 5, in the middle of the Bali talks, on whether to turn preliminary antidumping duties on Chinese solar panels into tariffs that would last for five years -- a move that could antagonize China, a major player in the global trade talks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A solar power plant in Aksu in China's Xinjiang region. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (B1)
 Solar panels at Yingli Green Energy Holdings in Baoding, Hebei Province, China. China ships roughly $30 billion in solar panels to the West each year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOW HWEE YOUNG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RON WYDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); BELGIUM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



678 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: There Was a Time When Ending Hunger Was a National Goal for Republicans and Democrats

BYLINE: By DOROTHY SAMUELS

 BODY:
''That hunger and malnutrition should persist in a land such as ours is embarrassing and intolerable.'' So declared Richard Nixon in May 1969 in his now widely forgotten ''Special Message to the Congress Recommending a Program to End Hunger in America.'' In that document, he summoned the country to a new level of generosity and concern and laid out a series of strong legislative steps and executive actions, including a significant expansion of the food-stamps program.
While campaigning for the White House in 1968, Mr. Nixon did not focus on the existence of a serious hunger problem. His conversion came as public calls to do something about hunger rose -- driven, in part, by Senator Robert Kennedy's highly publicized trip to Mississippi in 1967 where he encountered nearly starving children and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s focus on hunger as part of the Poor People's Campaign. 
During the '70s, another Republican leader, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, forged a partnership with George McGovern, the South Dakota Democrat defeated by Mr. Nixon in 1972. They helped pass legislation to improve the accessibility and antifraud provisions of the food-stamps program. For example, it eliminated a requirement that recipients buy food-stamp coupons, a prohibitive burden for the lowest-income Americans.
That kind of dedicated bipartisan commitment to ending hunger was light-years ago in American politics -- before President Ronald Reagan and, later, Speaker Newt Gingrich made attacking food stamps a prime Republican obsession, and certainly before moderate Republicans, a disappearing breed, lived in fear of making any move that might provoke a primary challenge from a Tea Party-supported candidate. The modern food-stamps program, built with Republican and Democratic support, succeeded in eliminating the most extreme pockets of hunger in parts of the country.
Today, the program remains an immensely important source of support for low-income families and children living below or near the poverty line. Still, some 50 million Americans live in households that cannot consistently afford enough food, even with the food-stamps program, now formally called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. Come November, temporary increases for food-stamp aid approved in the 2009 economic recovery act are scheduled to expire, which would result in a loss of about $25 in monthly food stamps for a family of four. If anything, Washington should be allocating more money to address tremendous unmet needs.
Yet, every Republican on the House Agriculture Committee voted to approve an omnibus farm bill containing a $20 billion cut in food stamps over the next decade in the program's $800 billion or so 10-year budget. While less devastating than turning the program into a capped block grant to the states, which the House Republicans have previously endorsed, the cut is nearly five times the reduction approved by the Democratic-controlled Senate Agriculture Committee, which already is too much.
The House bill's cuts would end food-stamp assistance for nearly two million people, with the pain falling mainly on low-income working families with kids and older Americans, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. And as many as 210,000 children would lose access to free school lunches and breakfasts because eligibility for those meals is tied to their family's receipt of food-stamp benefits.
''It is just not right,'' said Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat (no relation to George McGovern) before his amendment to strike the cut was defeated. Not a single Republican voted to approve it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); FAMILY (88%); APPROVALS (84%); STARVATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICS (72%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (71%); BUDGETS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



679 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: In 1949, He Imagined an Age of Robots

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
It was a vision that never saw the light of day.
The year was 1949, and computers and robots were still largely the stuff of science fiction. Only a few farsighted thinkers imagined that they would one day become central to civilization, with consequences both liberating and potentially dire.
One of those visionaries was Norbert Wiener (1894-1964), an American mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1948 he had published ''Cybernetics,'' a landmark theoretical work that both foreshadowed and influenced the arrival of computing, robotics and automation. Two years later, he wrote ''The Human Use of Human Beings,'' a popularization of those ideas and an exploration of the potential of automation and the risks of dehumanization by machines.
In 1949, The New York Times invited Wiener to summarize his views about ''what the ultimate machine age is likely to be,'' in the words of its longtime Sunday editor, Lester Markel.
Wiener accepted the invitation and wrote a draft of the article; the legendarily autocratic Markel was dissatisfied and asked him to rewrite it. He did. But through a distinctly pre-Internet series of fumbles and missed opportunities, neither version ever appeared. 
In August, according to Wiener's papers, which are on file at the M.I.T. Libraries, The Times asked him to resend the first draft of the article so it could be combined with the second draft. (It is not clear why the editors failed to keep a copy of the first draft.)
''Could you send the first draft to me, and we'll see whether we can combine the two into one story?'' wrote an editor in the paper's Sunday department, then separate from the daily paper. ''I may be mistaken, but I think you lost some of your best material.''
But by then Wiener was traveling in Mexico, and he responded:
''I had assumed that the first version of my article was finished business. To get hold of the paper in my office at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology would involve considerable cross-correspondence and annoyance to several people.
''I therefore do not consider it a practical thing to do. Under the circumstances I think that it is best for me to abandon this undertaking.''
The following week the Times editor returned the second draft to Wiener, and it eventually made its way to the libraries' Archives and Special Collections. It languished there until December 2012, when it was discovered by Anders Fernstedt, an independent scholar who is researching the work of Karl Popper, the 20th-century philosopher.
Almost 64 years after Wiener wrote it, his essay is still remarkably topical, raising questions about the impact of smart machines on society and of automation on human labor. In the spirit of rectifying an old omission, here are excerpts from ''The Machine Age,'' courtesy of the M.I.T. Libraries (all rights reserved).
Consider the Abacus
By this time the public is well aware that a new age of machines is upon us based on the computing machine, and not on the power machine. The tendency of these new machines is to replace human judgment on all levels but a fairly high one, rather than to replace human energy and power by machine energy and power. It is already clear that this new replacement will have a profound influence upon our lives, but it is not clear to the man of the street what this influence will be. ...
To understand what a computing machine is, let us compare a paper scheme of mathematical computation, a Chinese ... abacus and a Marchand or Fridén decimal computing machine for office use, and an electronic computing machine. Of these, the abacus is actually the oldest, but is not too familiar to the average man in the modern West.
Let us then begin with an ordinary paper schedule of computations. In this, we depend on certain memorized combinations of numbers and rules of procedure to enable us to carry out our actual operations on our numbers. The multiplication table and the rules of elementary arithmetic represent something which needs human intervention to be carried out on paper, but this human intervention follows certain inhumanly rigid and memorized laws.
In the abacus we carry out a human intervention of exactly the same sort as in combining numbers on paper, but in this case the numbers are represented by the positions of balls along a wire rather than by pen or pencil marks. The notation is just as arbitrary as in an ordinary pen or pencil computation, but the operations have a more mechanical appearance, in that they consist of the bodily motion of certain pieces of matter. Nevertheless, there is not the slightest logical difference between the abacus and the ordinary paper computation.
In the third stage, that of the desk computing machine, the same operations which occur in the abacus are made according to rules which are not memorized in all their details, but which are entrusted to the instrument, and carried out by its intervention. There is no replacement of true thought by the machine, since the level of thought of the elementary processes as we carry them out on paper is that of routine. The desk computing machine is neither more nor less than a mechanized abacus, in which our memory is replaced by certain internal interlockings of the machine.
Finally, the high-speed electronic computing machine differs from the desk machine only in the speed of its operations and the much higher complications of its interlockings. Thus an operation which previously took hours may be reduced to a matter of seconds.
Mass-Produced Laborers
We have so far spoken of the computing machine as an analogue to the human nervous system rather than to the whole of the human organism. Machines much more closely analogous to the human organism are well understood, and are now on the verge of being built. They will control entire industrial processes and will even make possible the factory substantially without employees.
In these the ultra-rapid digital computing machines will be supplemented by pieces of apparatus which take the readings of gauges, of thermometers, or photo-electric cells, and translate them into the digital input of computing machines. The new assemblages will also contain effectors, by which the numerical output of the central machine will be converted into the rotation of shafts, or the admission of chemicals into a tank, or the heating of a boiler, or some other process of the kind.
Furthermore, the actual performance of these effector organs as well as their desired performance will be read by suitable gauges and taken back into the machine as part of the information on which it works.
The general outline of the processes to be carried out will be determined by what computation engineers call taping, which will state and determine the sequence of the processes to be performed. The possibility of learning may be built in by allowing the taping to be re-established in a new way by the performance of the machine and the external impulses coming into it, rather than having it determined by a closed and rigid setup, to be imposed on the apparatus from the beginning.
The limitations of such a machine are simply those of an understanding of the objects to be attained, and of the potentialities of each stage of the processes by which they are to be attained, and of our power to make logically determinate combinations of those processes to achieve our ends. Roughly speaking, if we can do anything in a clear and intelligible way, we can do it by machine.
What the economic limitations will be -- namely, how we may determine whether it is desirable to use the machine rather than human effectors -- is something which we cannot state unambiguously until we have more experience. It is, however, quite clear that apart from the taping, which is the job for an intelligent man rather than for a deft man, the apparatus which we shall depend upon in the future machine age is largely repetitive, and will be capable of being manufactured by the methods of mass production.
The Genie and the Bottle
These new machines have a great capacity for upsetting the present basis of industry, and of reducing the economic value of the routine factory employee to a point at which he is not worth hiring at any price. If we combine our machine-potentials of a factory with the valuation of human beings on which our present factory system is based, we are in for an industrial revolution of unmitigated cruelty.
We must be willing to deal in facts rather than in fashionable ideologies if we wish to get through this period unharmed. Not even the brightest picture of an age in which man is the master, and in which we all have an excess of mechanical services will make up for the pains of transition, if we are not both humane and intelligent.
Finally the machines will do what we ask them to do and not what we ought to ask them to do. In the discussion of the relation between man and powerful agencies controlled by man, the gnomic wisdom of the folk tales has a value far beyond the books of our sociologists.
There is general agreement among the sages of the peoples of the past ages, that if we are granted power commensurate with our will, we are more likely to use it wrongly than to use it rightly, more likely to use it stupidly than to use it intelligently. [W. W. Jacobs's] terrible story of the ''Monkey's Paw'' is a modern example of this -- the father wishes for money and gets it as a compensation for the death of his son in a factory accident, then wishes for the return of his son. The son comes back as a ghost, and the father wishes him gone. This is the outcome of his three wishes.
Moreover, if we move in the direction of making machines which learn and whose behavior is modified by experience, we must face the fact that every degree of independence we give the machine is a degree of possible defiance of our wishes. The genie in the bottle will not willingly go back in the bottle, nor have we any reason to expect them to be well disposed to us.
In short, it is only a humanity which is capable of awe, which will also be capable of controlling the new potentials which we are opening for ourselves. We can be humble and live a good life with the aid of the machines, or we can be arrogant and die.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Norbert Wiener, the visionary mathematician whose essay ''The Machine Age'' languished for six decades in the M.I.T. archives. A page from the essay is below. At nytimes.com/science, John Markoff writes about advances in technology that have transformed the methods of archival researchers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
 M.I.T. INSTITUTE ARCHIVES AND SPECIAL COLLECTIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ROBOTICS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



680 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Government More Optimistic on Recovery

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The Japanese government struck a more confident note on the economy's prospects Monday, and a survey showed that manufacturing sentiment had turned positive for the first time in a year -- the latest sign that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's policies were taking hold. 
In its latest monthly assessment of economic activity, the cabinet said the economy was ''picking up slowly.'' The wording represented an upgrade from the report of the previous month, when the government spoke of recent signs of a pickup but also commented that weaknesses remained in some areas.
At the same time, a monthly poll measuring sentiment in the manufacturing sector, published by Reuters, jumped 11 points to plus-7 in May -- the highest reading since September 2011 and the first reading above zero in a year. Readings above zero show that optimistic responses outnumber pessimistic responses.
Since taking office in December, Mr. Abe has pursued a three-pronged strategy for resuscitating growth in the Japanese economy, the world's third-largest economy, after those of the United States and China.
The first two of the so-called ''arrows'' with which he is fighting economic malaise -- major spending programs and monetary policy that has effectively flooded the economy with cheap money -- have already helped weaken the yen and set off a remarkable rally in the Japanese stock market. The Nikkei 225 index climbed another 1.5 percent Monday, increasing its gains since the start of 2013 to nearly 48 percent. The weaker yen, meanwhile, has meant a windfall for exporters.
The policies helped bring about ''a V-shaped recovery,'' Akira Amari, the minister in charge of economic revitalization, said in a televised news briefing Monday.
Data released last week, showing that the economy had grown at an annualized pace of 3.5 percent in the first quarter of this year, more than analysts had expected, provided one of the first indications that Mr. Abe's policies were bearing fruit.
Solid earnings outlooks from Japanese companies in recent weeks also have underlined the positive effects of the weaker yen. The yen has dropped about 30 percent against the U.S. dollar since November 2012, helping to improve the international competitiveness of Japanese corporations.
At the same time, however, many analysts have cautioned that the ''third arrow'' -- structural overhauls to make the economy more competitive -- will be needed if the turnaround is to be sustainable over the long term.
Mr. Amari, speaking Monday morning, acknowledged that more work needed to be done. Corporate capital expenditure, for example, remained in negative territory, he said. He added that the government would focus on creating a pro-business environment that would swiftly increase spending.
Meanwhile, the Japanese central bank, whose announcement April 4 that it would aggressively buy longer-term bonds as part of a major bid to combat crippling deflation, is expected to hold off on any more stimulus action at its next policy meeting this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); EXPORT TRADE (63%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



681 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Getting Office Space At Old Home Of The Times

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
New media is replacing old in Times Square.
Yahoo, the giant Web company that agreed on Sunday to buy Tumblr for $1.1 billion, is moving its New York headquarters to the former home of The New York Times, on 43rd Street, east of Eighth Avenue, where it plans to expand.
Yahoo is talking to city officials about erecting a large illuminated sign with its name on the cupola at the top of the building, where The Times once had its own sign. 
The move, announced on Monday, illustrates the rapid growth and importance of the technology industry in the city's economy.
Yahoo, which has signed a long-term lease for the 9th through 12th floors in the 15-story building, is joining two other tech tenants there: 10gen, which makes database software, and Citysearch, the local search engine.
Yahoo is based in Silicon Valley. The company, which now has about 500 employees in three buildings in New York City, said it expected to expand its work force in the city to 700 within the next couple of years, particularly in the engineering area. Microsoft is moving to 11 Times Square and Facebook is nearby.
''For a while now,'' Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's chief executive, said, ''Yahoo has been looking for a home here in New York. We have several hundred employees spread across several offices. And I'm proud to say that we've found it.''
The company's New York employees currently work at 1065 Avenue of the Americas (at 40th Street), 1540 Broadway (at 45th Street) and 11 West 19th Street.
Lately, Ms. Mayer has focused on reinvigorating the company, armed with billions of dollars in cash from the sale of half its interest in the Chinese Internet company Alibaba. On Sunday, Yahoo agreed to pay cash for Tumblr, a blogging service.
Tumblr's 175 employees work from offices at 35 East 21st Street, and they will not move to Times Square. In order to attract employees, Yahoo plans to install the kind of amenities at the former Times building that are common at tech companies, including outdoor terraces and a cafeteria with an extensive menu of free food.
It would be similar to the setup at Google, which paid $1.8 billion for a building in Chelsea, at 111 Eighth Avenue. Google now has about 3,000 employees in the city.
''Since the Lehman Brothers collapse, tech has been carrying the New York City economy,'' said Jonathan Bowles, director of the Center for an Urban Future, a research organization. ''It's been an engine of growth and has helped diversify New York's economy beyond Wall Street. They're creating jobs and eating up more real estate.''
The fortunes of the former Times building have closely followed the rise and fall of the real estate market. Tishman Speyer Properties bought the property from The New York Times Company in 2004 for $175 million, after The Times announced plans to build a new headquarters several blocks away, on Eighth Avenue between 40th and 41st Streets.
Less than three years later, Tishman Speyer sold the building to Africa Israel USA for $525 million. The buyer spent $100 million on gutting and renovating the property in an effort to transform it into a first-class office building.
But the real estate market went into a tailspin, and Africa Israel was crushed under the weight of $711 million in loans. The company scrapped plans for wooing office tenants, and instead signed deals with Bowlmor Lanes, an upscale bowling alley, and Discovery Times Square, an exhibition hall, for the lower floors.
In 2011, the Blackstone Group, an investment firm, bought the bulk of the building, the top 11 floors, for $160 million. Blackstone abandoned plans for luring financial institutions and other corporations to the building, focusing instead on the growing tech sector.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yahoo intends to occupy the 9th through the 12th floors of the former headquarters of The New York Times on West 43rd Street, pulling employees from three other buildings. Above is the 11th floor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); CITIES (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); GOOGLE INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



682 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: The Bush Tax-Cut Failure

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: No hard evidence has ever emerged that the Bush tax cuts stimulated the economy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
Ten years ago this month, Congress enacted the third major tax cut of the George W. Bush administration. Its centerpiece was a huge cut in the tax rate on dividends. Historically, they had been taxed as ordinary income, but the Bush plan, enacted by a Republican Congress, cut that rate to 15 percent. The tax rate on ordinary income went as high as 35 percent. 
This initiative originated with the economist R. Glenn Hubbard, who had been chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers when the proposal was sent to Congress. Mr. Hubbard was a strong believer that the double taxation of corporate profits - first at the corporate level and again when paid out as dividends - was a major economic problem.
During the George H.W. Bush administration, Mr. Hubbard had been deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy and wrote a Treasury report advocating full integration of the corporate and individual income taxes.
Mr. Hubbard had also spearheaded enactment of big tax cuts in 2001 and 2002 that he said would jump-start the American economy. In an op-ed article in The Washington Post on Nov. 16, 2001, he predicted that the soon-to-be-enacted 2002 tax cut, which President Bush signed on March 9, 2002, would "quickly deliver a boost to move the economy back toward its long-run growth path."

Mr. Hubbard predicted that it would create 300,000 additional jobs in 2002 and add half a percentage point to the real gross domestic product growth rate.
There is no evidence that the tax cut had any such effect. The unemployment rate remained above 5.7 percent all year, rising to 5.9 percent in November and 6 percent in December. The real G.D.P. growth rate fell each quarter of 2002, and by the fourth quarter growth was at a standstill. Hence the need for yet another big tax cut.
The idea of the 2003 legislation was to raise dividend payouts, thereby bolstering personal income, and raise the prices of common stock, which would improve household balance sheets. As President Bush explained in his signing statement, "This will encourage more companies to pay dividends, which in itself will not only be good for investors but will be a corporate reform measure." He also said the dividend tax cut would "increase the wealth effect around America and help our markets."
The Treasury Department issued a fact sheet on July 30 asserting that the decline in dividends had been a cause of the weak stock market and noting that dividend payouts had risen since enactment of the tax cut on May 28.
Subsequent research, however, found that the increase in dividends was a short-term phenomenon and mainly at companies where stock options were a major form of executive compensation. A 2005 Federal Reserve Board study found that the United States stock market did not outperform European stock markets after the dividend cut. Nor did stocks qualifying for lower dividend taxes outperform those, such as real estate investment trusts, that did not qualify for lower dividend taxes. Non-dividend paying stocks slightly outperformed dividend-paying stocks, and many corporations that did pay higher dividends scaled back stock repurchases by a similar amount.
Share repurchases were a common way that corporations returned profits to shareholders. They raised stock prices, which were untaxed as long as shareholders held the stock and were taxed at low capital gains tax rates when sold.
A 2006 Federal Reserve study found that a third of corporations cut share repurchases by the same amount they increased dividend payouts. Hence only the form of shareholder compensation changed, not the amount. A 2010 Federal Reserve study found little change in total dividend payouts after the 2003 rate cut as a percentage of corporate earnings. It concluded that the tax cut had little, if any, effect.
A 2008 study published in the National Tax Journal surveyed investment professionals to see their reaction to the dividend tax cut. It found that the tax cut was less significant than other factors, such as corporate cash flow and cash holdings that were unaffected by the tax change.
A 2011 study by the Treasury Department examined household portfolios. It found no evidence that households shifted their investments from those whose return was taxed as ordinary income into dividend-paying stocks whose income was taxed less.
Finally, a January 2013 study by Danny Yagan of the University of California, Berkeley, examined the impact of the 2003 tax cut on corporate investment. He found zero change.
It is hard to find even a reputable conservative economist willing to say anything good these days about President Bush's tax and economic policies. In 2009, the Harvard economist Dale Jorgenson said he saw no redeeming features in them.
In 2011, the economist Alan Viard of the conservative American Enterprise Institute told Bloomberg News, "The effects of the Bush tax cuts on growth were ambiguous at best." He added, "They were not much of a poster child for pro-growth tax policy."
Even Mr. Hubbard now seems unwilling to defend the tax cuts he shepherded into law. Earlier this year, he was asked by The New York Times what he thought about the repeal of many of the Bush-era tax cuts on Jan. 1. He said many of those tax cuts were no longer relevant to our tax and economic problems.
Mr. Hubbard even suggested that higher revenues, long a Republican no-no, were not a bad thing. "We need a tax system that can promote economic growth and raise the revenue the American people want to devote to government," he said.

        
The Treasury's Mistaken View on Too Big to Fail
        
Made in America. Craved Everywhere Else.
        
On Whether the Rich Pay Too Little in Taxes
        
The Wealthy Keep the Tax Man Guessing
        
Happy Tax Day From Donald Duck

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (77%); TAX REFORM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMMON STOCK (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (61%) Bush, George W; Federal Taxes (US); Treasury Department; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RON PAUL (73%) Bush, George W

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



683 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1867 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo's Gamble

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: To understand Yahoo&#8217;s acquisition of Tumblr, consider Yahoo&#8217;s deal for GeoCities in 1999. | For technology deal makers, business is booming. | SAC Capital Advisors is bracing for another round of withdrawal requests. | Apple avoided billions in taxes in the United States and around the world, Congressional investigators disclosed. 

 BODY:
To understand Yahoo's $1.1 billion acquisition of Tumblr, it may be useful to reflect on Yahoo's deal for GeoCities in 1999, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. Both Tumblr and GeoCities lost money when they were acquired. Both had at one point been averse to accepting advertising. Both companies had loyal followers that quickly left.
The question raised by the GeoCities lesson, Mr. Sorkin writes, is, "How can a company with zero profits (actually, multimillion-dollar losses) and just $13 million in revenue be worth $1.1 billion?" Mr. Sorkin continues, "Inside Yahoo, officials dismiss the comparison to GeoCities. Instead, they compare the Tumblr deal to Google's purchase of YouTube - that is, Yahoo's management believes that Tumblr is one of a rare few transformative sites on the Internet." Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's chief executive, sees Tumblr as a possible growth engine for the future. "That's a big if," Mr. Sorkin says.
Still, the deal highlights a larger shift in social media. While Facebook is still king, people are flocking to sites like Tumblr where they can "be more actively engaged in creating personal, expressive content to share - and which could potentially translate to advertising dollars," The New York Times's Jenna Wortham writes. 
Substantially all of the $1.1 billion consideration is in cash. "One downside of a cash deal is that it creates immediate taxable gain for Tumblr's shareholders, most of whom have a very low basis in their Tumblr stock," Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column. "Another problem with a cash deal is that it requires Yahoo to think harder about how to compensate Tumblr's founder, David Karp, as well as the rest of Tumblr's senior management going forward."
Mr. Karp, at 26, joins a "tiny circle of 20-something entrepreneurs, hoodie-wearing characters like Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg and Foursquare's Dennis Crowley, who have struck it rich before turning 30," Ms. Wortham and Nick Bilton write for The New York Times. He dropped out of high school to pursue his passion for computers. "I knew he was one of these rare entrepreneurs that grew up on the Web and who could come up with an idea, build it himself, and then ship it that night," said Bijan Sabet, a general partner at Spark Capital, who was one of the first people to invest in Tumblr.
For technology deal makers, business is booming. "Thanks to three technology transactions on Monday - the $1.1 billion Tumblr deal; the $907 million sale of Websense, an online security provider, to Vista Equity Partners; and the merger of the food delivery companies Seamless and GrubHub - the value of deals in the sector announced in the United States so far this year has reached $51.4 billion, according to data from Standard & Poor's Capital IQ," DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced reports. "That's nearly triple the amount that was reported during the period a year earlier and almost equals the $66.5 billion in total deal volume announced in 2012."
SAC AIMS TO STEM WITHDRAWAL REQUESTS | "The embattled hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors is bracing itself for another round of withdrawal requests from investors after disclosing that it would no longer fully cooperate with the government's scrutiny of its trading practices," DealBook's Peter Lattman writes. "SAC's investors have two weeks to decide whether to withdraw money from the $15 billion hedge fund, which is owned by Steven A. Cohen."
"In the latest blow, SAC's largest outside investor, the Blackstone Group, is preparing a request to withdraw a portion of its money before the June 3 deadline, according to people briefed on the matter. Blackstone could take out as much as half of its roughly $550 million investment, these people said."
ON THE AGENDA | At its annual meeting, JPMorgan Chase tallies the vote on separating Jamie Dimon's roles of chairman and chief executive. Best Buy and Home Depot report earnings before the market opens. Clearwire shareholders vote on a proposed takeover by Sprint. Timothy J. Sloan, the chief financial officer of Wells Fargo, is on CNBC at 8:30 a.m. Jack Dorsey, the entrepreneur behind Twitter and Square, is on Bloomberg TV at 1 p.m.
HOW APPLE SAVED BILLIONS IN TAXES | Apple avoided billions in taxes in the United States and around the world through an unusually complex web of subsidiaries, Congressional investigators disclosed on Monday, The New York Times reports. "The investigation is expected to set up a potentially explosive confrontation between a bipartisan group of lawmakers and Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, at a public hearing on Tuesday."
"Congressional investigators found that some of Apple's subsidiaries had no employees and were largely run by top officials from the company's headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. But by officially locating them in places like Ireland, Apple was able to, in effect, make them stateless - exempt from taxes, record-keeping laws and the need for the subsidiaries to even file tax returns anywhere in the world."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Ergen Said to Bid for LightSquared Spectrum | Charles W. Ergen, the chairman of Dish Network, bid $2 billion for spectrum from LightSquared, the bankrupt wireless company backed by Philip Falcone's hedge fund, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
SoftBank to Sell Bonds to Finance Sprint Deal | SoftBank plans to sell 400 billion yen ($3.9 billion) of bonds, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sprint to Enter Talks Over Bid From Dish Network | Sprint "stopped short of saying Dish's offer could be superior" to an offer on the table from SoftBank of Japan, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Morgan Creek to Acquire Signet Capital Management | The investment firm Morgan Creek Capital Management has agreed to acquire the alternative funds business of Signet Capital Management, which has about $700 million in assets under management, the companies plan to announce on Tuesday. MORGAN CREEK
Royalty Pharma Raises Bid for a Resistant Elan | Royalty Pharma increased its offer on Monday for the Irish drug company Elan on the same day that Elan announced two acquisitions, a spinoff, a share buyback and an $800 million bond issue as it sought to fend off the takeover attempt. DealBook »
Actavis to Buy Warner Chilcott in All-Stock Deal | Actavis, a maker of generic drugs, agreed to buy the specialty pharmaceutical company Warner Chilcott for about $5 billion in stock after talks to sell itself to Valeant Pharmaceuticals fell apart last month. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
JPMorgan Agrees to Share Vote Information With Investors | JPMorgan Chase, "under pressure from the New York attorney general's office, has agreed to give investors information about upcoming ballot votes, after the company that collects votes on the measures stopped giving out polling information last week," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Financial Firms Said to Be Seeking Bloomberg Alternative | Nine Wall Street firms have been actively involved in creating an alternative to one of Bloomberg L.P.'s most widely used programs, its chat messaging network, people briefed on the effort said. DealBook »
Goldman to Exit Chinese Bank With Stake Sale | Goldman Sachs is selling its remaining shares in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, signaling the end of a highly profitable investment it made in 2006. DealBook »
Citigroup Names New Head of Mortgage Business | Jane Fraser, the chief executive of Citigroup's private bank, was named on Monday to lead the bank's mortgage business, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
BlackRock to Buy Real Estate Investment Firm | BlackRock agreed on Tuesday to buy the European and Asian real estate investment firm MGPA for an undisclosed fee. MGPA had around $12 billion of assets under management at the end of March. DealBook »
Blackstone Leads Bid for Chinese Technology Company | The Blackstone Group is leading a $664 million buyout bid for Pactera Technology International, which is listed on the Nasdaq, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS »
Phone Records Case Has a Familiar Ring | The disclosure by Ronald C. Machen Jr., the United States attorney for the District of Columbia, that his office had secretly seized telephone records of Associated Press reporters surprised many people. But the case sounded familiar to some on Wall Street, who recalled Mr. Machen's work for Allied Capital years ago, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
From the Ashes of Diamondback Capital, a New Fund | Michael Sedoy, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital Management, is starting a hedge fund at Kimmeridge Energy, according to Absolute Return. ABSOLUTE RETURN
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Blackstone Said to Consider I.P.O. of Real Estate Business | The Blackstone Group "is considering an initial public offering of its Brixmor Property Group shopping-center unit by year's end, taking advantage of a stock market rally as it starts to sell real estate assets," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Vodafone India Says I.P.O. Unlikely This Year | 
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Fab Said to Be Valued at $1 Billion in Financing Round | Fab, the online commerce company, "is in advanced talks to raise $250 million to $300 million in venture capital in a deal that would value the fast-growing but unprofitable company at $1 billion not including the new capital, people familiar with the matter said," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
U.S. and Europe Negotiate Settlements in Chinese Solar Panel Cases | The New York Times reports: "The Obama administration and the European Union have each decided to negotiate settlements with China in the world's largest antidumping and antisubsidy trade cases involving China's roughly $30 billion a year in solar panel shipments to the West, officials and trade advisers in Beijing, Brussels and Washington said." NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Former Senator to Run Wall St. Lobby Group | The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association announced that Judd A. Gregg, a former Republican senator from New Hampshire, would become the group's chief executive. DealBook »
The Case for Not Cooperating With Prosecutors | Resisting the government during an investigation can be difficult for companies, but there can be good strategic reasons for making prosecutors work harder to build a case, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Optimism Takes Hold in Japan | "The reason for the exuberance? Early - and some say deceptive - signs that new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's economic shock therapy, called Abenomics, might just be working," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
In China, Weighing Economic and Political Freedoms | China's leadership may be ready to discuss reforms in October. Yet any policy changes may satisfy calls for deeper economic reforms but disappoint hopes for broader political freedom, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); MERGERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (68%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (97%); GOOGLE INC (91%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); VISTA EQUITY PARTNERS LLC (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (97%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (97%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (97%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (76%); MARISSA MAYER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



684 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Strong Lobbying Helps Dimon Thwart a Shareholder Challenge

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The vote to split the roles of chairman and chief executive &#8212; both of which have been held by Jamie Dimon since 2006 &#8212; received only 32.2 percent of shares voted, down from a vote of roughly 40 percent in support of a similar proposal last year. 

 BODY:
 8:18 p.m. | Updated 
Jamie Dimon and the 10 other directors of JPMorgan Chase had reason to be confident before they took private jets to Tampa on Monday, the eve of the bank's annual meeting. Early indications were that a shareholder vote to split Mr. Dimon's jobs as chairman and chief executive was heading to a resounding defeat.
There was just one problem: One director was not going to Florida.
 Ellen V. Futter, a longtime member of the board's risk policy committee who had come under fire over her lack of a background in finance, had decided at the last minute not to attend the meeting. 
Ms. Futter, the president of the American Museum of Natural History, was sick of the swirl of negative attention surrounding her, worried that it needlessly detracted from JPMorgan's strengths and that it might hurt the reputation of the museum, people briefed on the matter said. She wanted off the board.
A resignation by a bank director would have distracted from what was shaping up to be a victory parade for Mr. Dimon. The charismatic chief executive called her on Monday to try to convince her to stay, although he acknowledged that it was a personal decision, the people briefed on the matter said. That discussion was followed by calls from at least two other directors, the people said. They urged Ms. Futter to remain on the board, adding that her resignation would drag her back into the spotlight.
In the end, Ms. Futter, who narrowly eked out re-election, changed her mind.
Mr. Dimon's art of persuasion was also in evidence on Tuesday as nearly 70 percent of the shares were voted to reject decisively a proposal for an independent chairman.
The shareholder vote had shaped up to be a rare challenge to Mr. Dimon, who was widely praised for piloting the bank through the turmoil of the financial crisis. Since the crisis, three years of consecutive quarterly profits at JPMorgan have added to his laurels.
Yet a surprising multibillion-dollar trading loss last year - one that has helped drive top lieutenants from the bank and produced a range of investigations - has raised questions about the chief executive's leadership.
The shareholder resolution, while intended to improve corporate governance by having an independent chairman as a counterweight to a chief executive, became a referendum on Mr. Dimon himself. It was a test he easily passed.
"To some extent this was a referendum on Jamie Dimon, and he is quite unique and special and no one can deny that," said Marvin Schwartz, a portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman, which controls roughly 12 million shares and voted against the resolution. "To hold against him one unfortunate loss in the trading area, I think, is quite unfair."
Even though some 40 percent of the shares last year had supported a similar proposal to split the top two jobs at the bank, this year's resolution was supported by only 32.2 percent of the shares. The divide in the vote was apparent, with institutional investors like Neuberger Berman voting overwhelmingly against the proposal and pension funds voting for it, according to people briefed on the matter.
In an e-mail to employees after the annual meeting, Mr. Dimon wrote: "I love coming to work here every day - and hope to be doing it for years to come."
Shares of JPMorgan rose as much as 2.6 percent on Tuesday, before closing up 1.4 percent, at $53.02.
The hearty endorsement of the chief executive - which was announced on his 30th wedding anniversary - came after months of behind-the-scenes lobbying by the bank.
At its Park Avenue headquarters, JPMorgan assembled a war room where executives kept close tallies as shareholder votes began streaming in, according to two people briefed on the matter. To sway investors, these people said, influential board members were paired with large shareholders.
Part of the message was to remind shareholders that the directors were already a powerful check on Mr. Dimon, noting that board had earlier moved to root out problems in the aftermath of the losses and to claw back $100 million from the traders at the center of the outsized wagers.
The bank held conference calls with several big investors, including Neuberger Berman. Mr. Schwartz said that during that call, which lasted roughly 40 minutes, Neuberger portfolio managers had a "frank give and take" with JPMorgan executives.
Still, roughly two weeks before the shareholder meeting, the proposal sponsors were winning, according to people briefed on the tallies. The vote was going against Mr. Dimon.
On May 6, Lee R. Raymond, the lead director of the bank's board, and William C. Weldon, the chairman of the board's corporate governance and nominating committee, met with officials from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, one of the main backers of the proposal to divide the roles.
A close ally of Mr. Dimon even tried to enlist former President Bill Clinton to help broker a compromise with Afscme, according to two people with knowledge of the discussion. Mr. Clinton declined.
"I think that given the resources that the management and the board threw at this, it's not a surprise that the vote was lower than last year," said Lisa Lindsley, the director of capital strategies at Afscme.
The bank pulled other levers as well, some shareholders said.
"First we hear Jamie might leave if things go against him and then people start talking about the damage to the stock price," said one major shareholder, who asked not to be named because of a company policy against speaking to the media. "It was effective."
People close to the bank say a turning point in the campaign came from an unexpected source, an influential shareholder advisory firm, Institutional Shareholder Services, which urged shareholders earlier this month to withhold their votes from three directors on the board's policy committee.
In a scathing 33-page report, the firm faulted three directors, saying they lacked risk expertise. By zeroing in on the board members, several people close to the bank said, the advisory firm effectively gave shareholders an alternative. They could register their dissatisfaction with JPMorgan without going after Mr. Dimon, the people said.
Indeed, the preliminary vote totals for the three directors were effectively rebukes. Ms. Futter received just 53 percent of the voting shares, while the two other directors on the committee did only a little better: James S. Crown received about 57 percent of the vote; and David M. Cote received 59 percent. (In comparison, Mr. Dimon received 98 percent of the vote for his board seat, while Mr. Raymond, the lead director, received 95 percent.)
As a result of this sign of disapproval from shareholders, it is almost certain the board will make some changes. On Tuesday, Mr. Raymond told shareholders to "stay tuned" when he was asked if the board is planning to make changes to the risk committee. It is likely Ms. Futter will come off the risk committee, and the board may replace her or others with directors that have more knowledge of financial risk.
"The vote proved to be a referendum on the board's oversight of risk rather than over whether to split the chairman/C.E.O. job," said Michael Garland, an assistant comptroller who heads corporate governance for the New York City comptroller, John Liu, which co-sponsored the bill. "I don't think this is a setback because it put a spotlight on the issue and the clock is now ticking on director reform."

        
Big Vote on Dimon May Hinge on Views on JPMorgan's Top Director
        
Small Firm Could Turn the Vote on Dimon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); HISTORY (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); PARADES & MARCHES (52%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Boards of Directors; Dimon, James; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Raymond, Lee R (1938- ); Tampa (Fla); JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (94%) Dimon, James; Raymond, Lee R (1938- )

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Tampa (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



685 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Is the Economy Saving Obama's Approval Ratings?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Political coverage over the last week has focused on a series of stories that reflect negatively on the executive branch, but President Obama&#8217;s approval ratings have held steady. 

 BODY:
Political coverage over the last week has focused on a series of stories that reflect negatively on the executive branch - but President Obama's approval ratings have held steady. As of Monday, Mr. Obama's Gallup approval rating was 49 percent - the same as it was, on average, in April. Mr. Obama's Rasmussen Reports approval rating was 48 percent, not much changed from an average of 50 percent in April. Mr. Obama's approval rating in a CNN poll published on Sunday was 53 percent, little different from 51 percent in their April survey. And in a Washington Post-ABC News poll, Mr. Obama's approval rating was 51 percent, essentially unchanged from 50 percent in April.
There are a lot of theories as to why Mr. Obama's approval ratings have been unchanged in the wake of these controversies, which some news accounts and many of Mr. Obama's opponents are describing as scandals. But these analyses may proceed from the wrong premise if they assume that the stories have had no impact. It could be that the controversies are, in fact, putting some downward pressure on Mr. Obama's approval ratings - but that the losses are offset by improved voter attitudes about the economy. 
I first put forth this hypothesis on Sunday, but Jon Cohen and Dan Balz of The Washington Post have advanced some tangible evidence on its behalf. In the latest Washington Post survey, Mr. Obama's approval rating on the economy is 48 percent - up from 44 percent in April. This follows a series of surveys showing that consumer confidence is at or near its highest point since Mr. Obama took office. The economic mood may have been lifted by two highly visible indicators - record-breaking stock prices and rebounding housing prices - along with a series of improved jobs reports.
In the graphic below, I've compared Mr. Obama's approval ratings on the economy to his overall approval rating in Washington Post surveys dating back to the beginning of his presidency. As you might expect, the two ratings are highly correlated. There is undoubtedly a strong causal relationship as well, although keep in mind that the causality can potentially go in both directions. (Voters who are satisfied with the economy will tend to view Mr. Obama more favorably over all, but those who are happy with his overall performance may also tend to take a more favorable view of his impact on the economy - the so-called halo effect.)
There is one significant outlier in the chart, which reflects an occasion on which Mr. Obama's approval ratings were much higher than you might expect given views about his economic performance. That was in May 2011, just after the mission that killed Osama bin Laden, when a Washington Post poll put Mr. Obama's overall approval rating at 56 percent despite just 40 percent approval on the economy.
The latest readings from the Washington Post poll aren't nearly as dramatic as that instance - but there is a milder version of this same phenomenon working in the opposite direction. In other words, Mr. Obama's approval rating in the new Washington Post poll is a now bit lower than you'd expect based on where voters rate him on the economy.
Based on the historical relationship between Mr. Obama'a overall and economic approval ratings in the poll, you'd predict that his overall approval rating would be 53 or 54 percent given an economic approval rating of 48 percent. Instead, it's 51 percent. So it may be that the talk surrounding Benghazi, the I.R.S. and the Justice Department has negatively affected Mr. Obama's approval rating by two or three percentage points, but that the economy has lifted his numbers by about the same amount.

        
As Obama Faces Crises Abroad, His Foreign Policy Approval Is Down
        
The 10-Word Question That Could Cost Obama the Election
        
Obama Has Lost Advantage Over G.O.P. on Economy
        
Polls Show Below-Average Post-Election Approval Bounce for Obama
        
Sept. 23: Does Omaha Matter?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (86%); POLITICS (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); HOME PRICES (62%) approval ratings; Benghazi; economy; I.R.S.; polls; President Obama; Obama, Barack; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Internal Revenue Service Political Profiling; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Economy; Washington Post; Politics

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Washington Post

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



686 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

LENGTH: 3947 words

HEADLINE: May 21 Updates in the Aftermath of the Tornado in Oklahoma

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON, LIAM STACK and CHRISTINE HAUSER


HIGHLIGHT: The Lede is following developments in Moore, Okla., where rescue workers continue to dig through debris searching for victims. 

 BODY:
 11:28 P.M. | Amid Tragedy, Reunions and Relief 
When the winds died down and the debris settled following Monday's tornado in Oklahoma, residents began scrambling to find loved ones amid the rubble of homes and businesses and at least two schools. For some, that search ended in searing grief. As my colleagues Manny Fernandez and Jack Healy report, at least 24 people were killed, nine of them children. For many others, like Trenda Purcell, who was shown on video reuniting with her son, Kamden, tear-filled reunions and relief awaited. 
Live updates of the recovery effort in Oklahoma will continue on Wednesday morning. 
- Michael Schwirtz 
 6:03 P.M. | Scenes of Destruction From Tornado's Path Through Moore 
As our colleague John Eligon reports from Moore, Okla., residents struggled to make sense of the devastation wrought upon their community by Monday's tornado, while officials said they hoped to finish their search for survivors by nightfall on Tuesday.
The National Weather Service said on Tuesday that the storm was an EF5 tornado, the most powerful and destructive category. The tornado left a path of destruction through the town of Moore, leveling entire neighborhoods and killing dozens of people, although officials cautioned that it was too early to know the exact number of the dead. 
As residents emerged from storm shelters to a community transformed, many turned to camera phones and social media to document the devastation they witnessed and share it with the world. Journalists covering the tornado also shared photographs of what they saw in Moore on social media. 
Mike Jenkins, a television producer at The Weather Channel, posted a photograph to Twitter that showed the kitchen of a damaged home. The roof had been ripped off the structure, but a chandelier hanging in the kitchen appeared intact. Chairs were undisturbed around the kitchen table, and a potted plant sat in its center. 
Kitchen chandelier untouched, but the roof is gone. #MooreOK http://t.co/JKhtAfcAM6
- Mike Jenkins (@MikeJenkinsTV)21 May 13
Mark Robinson, a self-described storm chaser, posted several photographs to Twitter. This one claims to show a ruined shopping center in Moore.
What's left of a strip mall. #mooretornado http://t.co/Y1gWRRd7JZ
- Mark Robinson (@StormhunterTWN)21 May 13
Priscilla Luong, a reporter for Fox 25 in Oklahoma City, posted a photograph to Twitter that showed brightly colored, child-size furniture outside a devastated day care center in Moore.
Pint-sized chairs, tables, and toys for children 6 and younger, salvaged from a #Moore daycare center. #okcfox #okwx http://t.co/IsQTquZAah
- Priscilla Luong (@priscillaluong)21 May 13
Ms. Luong also posted a photograph that showed a 6-year-old boy helping his teacher clean up the rubble of their day care center.
A 6-year old boy helps his teachers clean up at his daycare center in #Moore. He's quite the helper! #okcfox http://t.co/RPgcxGtSOO
- Priscilla Luong (@priscillaluong)21 May 13
Michael Konopasek, a reporter for the local CBS affiliate in Oklahoma City, posted a photograph to Twitter of a ruined building and an overturned car near where his camera crew was filming on Tuesday afternoon.
My live shot location today http://t.co/5KgkkCVQf5
- Michael Konopasek (@MikeKonopasek)21 May 13
Mr. Konopasek also posted a photograph of a tornado shelter built after another devastating EF5 tornado tore through Moore in May 1999. He reported that many residents hiding in shelters similar to this one survived Monday's storm. 
This FEMA shelter built after the 05-03-99 Twister saved several lives yesterday. http://t.co/PL9npWoc6H
- Michael Konopasek (@MikeKonopasek)21 May 13
 5:40 P.M. | 'Man's Best Friend to the End,' says Okla. Sheriff 
Scared, but this little pup survived @cityofmoore #tornado. #okwx #okcoso http://t.co/D1pf8QTuwm
- Oklahoma Co. Sheriff (@OkCountySheriff)20 May 13
At 7:20 p.m. on Monday, the Oklahoma County Sheriff's office posted this photo on its Twitter account of a little black dog with white markings that survived the devastating tornado. It was retweeted more than 1,900 times.
Today, the sheriff's staff shared on Facebook the story behind finding the dog.
He was found standing by his owner, who was killed during the storm.
PUB-DATE: May 20, 2013
 5:01 P.M. | Google Crisis Response Map for Moore 
Google's Crisis Response team published a map with resources and information for residents of Moore and surrounding communities in the aftermath of the tornado.
 4:34 P.M. | National Weather Service: Moore Tornado Was an EF5 
The National Weather Service said on Tuesday that the tornado that cut a path of destruction through Moore, Okla., and surrounding communities on Monday afternoon was an EF5, the most powerful category of tornado. 
National Weather Service researchers in Norman, Okla., close to the epicenter of Monday's destruction, said that they had found at least one area of EF5-level damage, at Briarwood Elementary School, according to a report on the Weather Channel. 
Tulsa World reported on Tuesday that wind speeds during the tornado reached a maximum gust of 200 to 210 miles per hour, at the low end of the EF5 scale. It was 1.3 miles wide and 17 miles long. Studies on Monday had indicated wind speeds of around 190 miles per hour, leading meteorologists to classify the storm initially as a weaker EF4.
 4:24 P.M. | Moore Medical Center Destroyed During Storm 
Wreckage of Moore Medical Center after Mondays devastating tornado. #OKTornado @ksdknews http://t.co/3bFBQnoVXP
- John Kelly (@JohnShootsNews)21 May 13
The tornado took with it one of the region's medical centers, forcing patients who had sought refuge from the swirling storm to evacuate to other hospitals.
The storm cut what appeared to be a direct path through Moore Medical Center, a small emergency services hospital. The force of the winds gutted and nearly flattened the building, stripping away its second floor.
Emergency crews that arrived at the hospital in the hours after the storm found an eerie scene: a once-vibrant hospital unrecognizable, its alarms blaring in the background and its parking lot strewn with rubble, debris and piles of crumpled cars, The Oklahoman reports.
This was the Moore Medical Center. Cars stacked 3 high in the parking lot. @keyetv saw rescue crews searching area. http://t.co/gT9AjUZA55
- Alex Boyer (@AlexBoyerTV)21 May 13
About 30 patients were at the hospital in the hours before the tornado struck. Those patients and many hospital staff were evacuated to two sister medical centers in the Norman Regional Health System, sparing anyone from injury. But hospital workers said the damage done was far beyond what they had anticipated.
"It was very traumatic for those people that were there; the hospital did take a direct hit," said Kelly Wells, a spokeswoman for Norman Regional Health System, which runs Moore Medical Center, in an interview. "We did have warning that there was a risk for these types of storms. But it popped up rather quickly. It was really fast and massive and destructive."
Picture I took of the Moore Medical Center yesterday from the street. My team doc was formerly based out of here. http://t.co/ws67X2O0sx
- Dain (@dainfoster)21 May 13
Some of the patients at Moore were being treated for minor storm-related injuries. Others were there for routine procedures like labor and delivery. Ms. Wells said that more than 100 tornado victims had been taken to the two other hospitals in the health system, Norman Regional and HealthPlex, for things like broken bones, lacerations and internal injuries. 
On its Web site, the health system noted that it was trying to find the parents of one of its patients, a 9-year-old girl, Kaileigh Hawkins, who was at her elementary school when the tornado struck. "She is doing O.K., but her parents are not with her," it said.
At Norman Regional Hospital, about 35 of the patients were what the hospital called "walking wounded." The health system was trying to divert much of the staff that evacuated Moore Medical Center to the other hospitals, but some were dealing with personal losses.
"We had a lot of staff whose homes were impacted by the storm," Ms. Wells said. "But those who are able to are being asked to come to the other campuses to help where they can."
The hospitals saw a barrage of patients in the hours after the storm, which has now slowed down tremendously, Ms. Wells said. Administrators are now trying to figure out their next steps as crews sift through the ruins of Moore Medical Center.
"The pictures that they're sending back are just incredible and devastating," she said. "We drill for these types of situations. But you're never totally prepared."
- Anahad O'Connor 
 3:30 P.M. | Fire Chief Promises Searches of All Damaged Property 
Dogs are here.. sniffing for survivors. This is Hank.. #okwx http://t.co/ov524kmHqd
- Ali Meyer (@amanchor)21 May 13
Gary Bird, the Moore fire chief, said on Tuesday that search and rescue crews would continue to look for survivors in damaged buildings with the goal of getting to them all for a second time by nightfall.
"We will go through every damaged piece of property in this city," he said.
Mr. Bird said that no new survivors had been found since Monday night.
Search and rescue crews from around the state and region have arrived to assist the more than 200 emergency responders who had been working since the tornado touched down to find survivors. 
Among those who arrived on the scene to assist were members of the National Guard Airmen from the 146th Air Support Operations Squadron. Second Lt. Gabriel Bird explained how thermal imaging technology and other tools are used to try to locate victims:
The state medical examiner's office lowered the official death toll from the storm to 24 victims, after as many as 91 people were initially reported killed. 
It is unclear how many people are still missing, city officials said. 
 2:18 P.M. | State Emergency Official: No Safe Rooms at Schools Hit 
Albert Ashwood, Oklahoma's top emergency management official, said at a televised news conference that the two elementary schools in the direct path of the storm did not have safe rooms for students and teachers to take shelter. Nor did the schools have basements.
He said the Federal Emergency Management Agency had provided funds for safe rooms for more than 100 schools in the state, but Plaza Towers Elementary School and Briarwood Elementary School were not among them. 
All students have been accounted for at Briarwood. However, rescue crews continued to sift through the rubble of Plaza Towers on Tuesday in the hope of finding more survivors. At least seven children at that school were killed. 
Mr. Ashwood described safe rooms as a "mitigating measure. It's not absolute." However, he acknowledged that additional safety measures may have provided better protection for the children killed at Plaza Towers Elementary. 
FEMA provides this definition of a safe room on its Web site, along with a Q. and A. about them.
Safe room is a hardened structure specifically designed to meet the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) criteria and provide "near-absolute protection" in extreme weather events, including tornadoes and hurricanes. Near-absolute protection means that, based on our current knowledge of tornadoes and hurricanes, the occupants of a safe room built in accordance with FEMA guidance will have a very high probability of being protected from injury or death.
 2:07 P.M. | National Weather Service Official Describes Rare Event 
A National Weather Service official said the tornado cut a path about 17 miles long with winds up to 190 miles an hour. Numerous structures in its path were wiped clean to the foundations. 
The tornado began at about 2:56 p.m. Central time on Monday. 
By 3:01 p.m., the National Weather Service issued an emergency statement about the storm, which it described as a rare event, an unusual step taken only when there is expected to be significant impact from a storm.
- Christine Hauser 
 1:38 P.M. | Damage Recalls 1999 Tornado in Oklahoma 
Monday's devastating tornado was not the first severe weather event to wreak havoc in the area around Moore, Okla. In May 1999, a severe storm system unleashed violent weather across Oklahoma, Kansas, Arkansas, Texas and Tennessee, including at least 74 tornadoes that cut a path of destruction across Oklahoma. 
In a video posted to YouTube in May 2011 by AccuWeather, the meteorologist Mark Mancuso called it "the most prolific tornado outbreak in Oklahoma history." 
The strongest of those storms was a tornado that cut a 38-mile path of destruction across the southern suburbs of Oklahoma City, including the towns of Bridge Creek, Newcastle, Moore, Midwest City and Del City, according to a CNN report. Mr. Mancuso said that the tornado was the last official F5 on record, the highest level on the Fujita tornado damage scale, and packed winds of up to 301 miles per hours. The storm killed 48 people, 36 of them in Oklahoma City, and destroyed as many as 8,000 homes.
The 1999 tornado caused $1.1 billion in damage, according to Mr. Mancuso, and was the costliest tornado in United States history. In an interview with CNN, officials in Oklahoma said they expected Monday's tornado to meet, if not surpass, that record.
Albert Ashwood, director of the Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management, told reporters the two tornadoes are "equally devastating."
"And I think the fact that what we see so far today is going to be very similar if not exceed what we saw in 1999," he said. "But keep in mind, any time there's a loss of life, it's a devastating disaster."
Heather Moore survived both the 1999 and Monday's storms.
"It was very, very similar," Moore told CNN's Piers Morgan. "Cars were turned over, some houses were half gone, some houses were all gone. ... All the trees are gone, all the power lines are gone."
U.S. Rep. Tom Cole, who lives in Moore, told CNN's Wolf Blitzer the damage he was seeing on television Monday looked as bad as the 1999 tornado that destroyed more than 1,000 houses in his hometown.
The Discovery Channel television show "Storm Chasers" dedicated an episode to the 1999 tornado, and a brief video clip on its Web site provides a glimpse of the power of that storm.
 1:29 P.M. | Oklahoma Governor Gives Update on Tornado 
 [Video: Video from news conference Tuesday with the governor and other officials Watch on Youtube.]
Officials at a news conference gave a briefing on the relief efforts in the aftermath of the tornado in Moore, Okla. 
"The path of the storm is 20 miles long and estimated two miles in width," said Gov. Mary Fallin, who described the tornado as one of the state's most horrific disasters. She said the state would rebuild, making sure it uncovered "every piece of debris."
Ms. Fallin took an aerial tour of the damage. "Homes were absolutely destroyed," she said. "There are just sticks and bricks."
There are no firm numbers yet on how many people died, but 237 have been reported injured so far. Some bodies may have been taken to local funeral homes.
- Christine Hauser 
 12:37 P.M. | Live Video From Oklahoma 
KFOR-TV in Oklahoma City is streaming live coverage online in the aftermath of the deadly tornado that struck Monday afternoon in Moore, Okla. 
 12:12 P.M. | How the Tornado Looked From Space 
This image, taken from space at 2:55 p.m. Central time on Monday, shows the storm developing directly over central Oklahoma. A minute after this image was recorded, the tornado touched down.
SEE: .@NOAASatellites image of May 20 #Oklahoma #tornado that devastated Moore, OK: http://t.co/vVKUjW6cqs #EnviroVizLab
- NOAA (@NOAA)21 May 13
- Christine Hauser 
 12:02 P.M. | Devastation After the Tornado 
 [Video: A look at the tornado damage at the Moore Medical Center in Oklahoma. Watch on Youtube.]
 11:16 A.M. | Teachers Describe Efforts to Protect Students in Storm 
 [Video: Video from ABC News of two teachers from Briarwood Elementary School in Oklahoma City describing the terrifying moments after the tornado struck. Watch on Youtube.]
In an interview with Robin Roberts of ABC News, two first-grade teachers from Briarwood Elementary School in Oklahoma City described the steps they took to protect their students as the tornado struck.
"It was not like anything I had ever experienced, to have those children in my care and to do what is best for them," Sherri Bittle told Ms. Roberts.
Ms. Bittle said her students were getting ready to attend their last class of the day, art and music, and had already prepared their backpacks. She quickly saw the backpacks as a tool to help keep the children safe.
"I had them take their backpacks and put them over their little heads as they were down in the center of our building," she said.
On the other side of the building, Cindy Lowe, another first-grade teacher, said she looked outside and saw the tornado headed their way. "I saw how serious it was," she said. 
Ms. Lowe said she tried to keep the children calm as she reminded them of the steps they practiced during tornado drills. "This is not a drill," she told them as she lay her body on top of as many children as she could.
In an interview with The Oklahoman, a second-grade teacher, Annette Brown, recalled huddling with her students in the restroom and the hallways of Briarwood Elementary before the ceiling collapsed and pinned them to the ground. 
Metal beams and cinder blocks crushed her. She held the hand of her son - a student at the school - the whole time, despite losing feeling in her arms. She said her thoughts were on the children and keeping them calm.
"I thought we were going to die," Brown said.
She said the children were "surprisingly calm." First responders pulled them from the rubble.
"I'm just thankful that we made it," she said. "We had guardian angels for sure. There's no way we could've made it without guardian angels."
All of the students at Briarwood Elementary have been accounted for, but search crews remained at another school, Plaza Towers Elementary in Moore, where some students and teachers had been rescued. Others are still missing. 
W/ heavy hearts & gentle hands, searchers are picking apart wreckage of Plaza Towers school in Moore, #oklahoma http://t.co/SJEu4jIBZ4
- Trevor Hughes (@TrevorHughes)21 May 13
 11:33 A.M. | How to Help Victims of the Tornado 
Aid for the tornado victims poured in on Tuesday as emergency crews continued to search for survivors. Several disaster relief organizations were holding donation drives, and news organizations provided information on Twitter about how to donate to relief efforts. Volunteers also showed up in person, flooding the offices of the local Red Cross.
Flooding over with spontaneous volunteers in our OKC office. Thank you to those who have come. http://t.co/rPomO65wJ9
- Red Cross Oklahoma (@redcrossokc)21 May 13
Donations can also be made through the Red Cross Web site. OperationUSA and Feeding America are also accepting donations.
Our hearts are w/ #Oklahoma & we are figuring out needs of those affected as well as those still struggling w/ #hunger
- Feeding America (@FeedingAmerica)21 May 13
For information on ways to help those affected by the severe weather in #Oklahoma visit: http://t.co/FIUXeDklYW #PrayForOklahoma
- The White House (@whitehouse)21 May 13
A few ways you can help the #Oklahoma #Tornado victims right now. We'll add more to this list: http://t.co/ZIC5MYgHt9 #prayforoklahoma
- FOX 25 News Boston (@fox25news)21 May 13
United Way of Central Oklahoma's Disaster Relief Fund open at http://t.co/rgxyGnovf5. @UnitedWay #LIVEUNITED
- United Way (@UnitedWay)21 May 13
How to help #Oklahoma survivors: text "STORM" to 80888 to make $10 donation #prayforoklahoma
- Salvation Army USA (@SalvationArmyUS)21 May 13
- Christine Hauser 
 10:36 A.M. | Obama Pledges Support for Tornado Victims 
Speaking at the White House after being briefed by federal emergency officials, President Obama pledged support for the victims of the tornado. "In an instant, neighborhoods were destroyed, dozens of people lost their lives, many more were injured and among the victims were young children trying to take shelter in the safest place they knew: their school," he said.
He expressed gratitude to teachers, neighbors and emergency personnel, as well as those who searched through the night for survivors. While making clear that urgent rescue work would be followed by the work of recovery and rebuilding, the president said the people who were affected would have all the resources they need and issued a disaster declaration.
FEMA staff have been deployed to the scene, and teams have joined in the effort to help, including one from Joplin, Mo., which was devastated by a tornado in 2011. The University of Oklahoma is providing housing for displaced families. The people of Moore, Mr. Obama said, should know their country will stand alongside them "for as long as it takes."
He said that officials did not yet know the full extent of economic losses, but that empty spaces that used to be bedrooms or living areas needed to be refilled with "love and laughter and community."
"We are a nation that stands with our fellow citizens," the president said.
- Christine Hauser 
 9:10 A.M. | More Severe Weather Expected in Oklahoma 
As crews continued to sift through rubble and twisted metal, KOCO-TV's meteorologist, Brad Sowder, warned that Oklahoma could face more severe weather today. He said that thunderstorms were likely in Moore and that more severe weather could be expected south of Oklahoma City. 
[Video: Mr. Sowder's report. Watch on Youtube.]
The National Weather Service issued a warning about the potential for tornadoes, large hail and damaging winds later today and tonight in the following areas: 
 SOUTHWEST ARKANSAS
 NORTHWEST LOUISIANA
 SOUTHEAST OKLAHOMA
 CENTRAL AND NORTHEAST TEXAS
 ELSEWHERE ... SEVERE STORMS ARE ALSO POSSIBLE FROM ... SOUTH CENTRAL
 TEXAS INTO THE MID MISSISSIPPI VALLEY.
 8:55 A.M. | Video of the Tornado as It Tore Through Moore 
Our footage of the Moore, OK tornado. Majority of footage was shot from the parking lot of South Moore High... http://t.co/6pzqiHvC43
- Basehunters Chasing (@Basehunters)20 May 13
[Video: Video of the tornado. Watch on Youtube.]
 8:51 A.M. | President Obama Is Expected to Speak at Noon 
President Obama spoke with Oklahoma @GovMaryFallin to express his concern for those affected by the severe weather: http://t.co/XLPnF7Z3dJ
- The White House (@whitehouse)21 May 13
President Obama declared Oklahoma a major disaster in the aftermath of the tornado.
He is scheduled to make a statement at noon.
 8:38 A.M. | Video From the Search at Plaza Towers Elementary School 
As dawn broke over a storm-ravaged Moore, Okla., rescue workers continued to sift through the rubble at two schools and in entire neighborhoods leveled by a tornado with winds estimated at roughly 200 miles per hour. At the Plaza Towers Elementary School, as our colleagues report, rescue crews were able to pull several children from the rubble late Monday, but concerns grew overnight that no more victims would be found alive. 
On the scene, reporters from KOCO-TV in Oklahoma talked to rescue workers as they were told the effort was moving from rescue to recovery operations. 
[Video: An overnight report from KOCO-TV at Plaza Towers Elementary School. Watch on Youtube.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2013 OKLAHOMA CITY TORNADO (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); TORNADOES (90%); WEATHER (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); WRITERS (64%) News; U.S.

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



687 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Puts Watson to Work in Business

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: I.B.M. will move its Watson artificial-intelligence technology into the business mainstream with an offering pitched as a smart assistant especially useful in industries with many customer service calls. 

 BODY:
Since its triumph over human "Jeopardy!" champions two years ago, I.B.M.'s Watson has explored a number of frontiers for its artificial-intelligence technology, even inventing new recipes in the kitchen.
To date, medicine has been Watson's most focused foray. Its machine intelligence has read through vast troves of medical texts, research papers and patient records to suggest diagnosis and treatment options at institutions including the Cleveland Clinic, the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, and for the insurer WellPoint. Yet even its work in health care has had the feel of applied science projects - impressive, but seemingly custom jobs rather than the beginning of a big commercial business.
I.B.M. hopes to take a big step toward mass-market commercialization of Watson on Tuesday, announcing that the technology will be applied to customer service, broadly defined. Its new offering, called IBM Watson Engagement Advisor, is being pitched as a smart assistant whose services can apply to almost any industry, but especially those that receive many customer service calls, like retailing, banking, insurance and telecommunications. 
"Watson has a new job - assisting brands," said Manoj Saxena, the I.B.M. executive in charge of the Watson business unit.
In health care, Mr. Saxena noted, Watson has done "high-value" work for a handful of institutions. The customer-service business, by contrast, is a "high-volume play for us."
This week's announcement is the next move in an ambitious, longer-term commercialization agenda for Watson. I.B.M. plans to offer the Watson software as the equivalent of an operating system for artificial intelligence applications - much as Microsoft's Windows was the operating system that dominated the personal computer era.
Software developers and start-up companies, according to the I.B.M. game plan, will build software applications that run on the Watson artificial-intelligence engine - and with them, new businesses. In a speech last week at a meeting of the National Venture Capital Association in San Francisco, Virginia M. Rometty, I.B.M.'s chief executive, said, "We'll launch an ecosystem where Watson is a service and you build applications around it."
The Watson technology can either assist human customer-service representatives or take over some of their tasks. An "Ask Watson" feature allows consumers to ask Watson questions directly from a smartphone or notebook computer and proceed, the company says, in a conversational style, either with typed text or spoken words. (Voice recognition technology would be supplied by third-party specialists, like Nuance, as is the case for Apple's Siri question-answering service.) 
The two years of development since the "Jeopardy!" contest, Mr. Saxena said, have made Watson far faster and more compact, whether the cloud service resides on servers in an I.B.M. data center or on a corporate customer's servers.
The original Watson was a question-and-answer machine - with each interaction a separate question and answer. The current technology, according to Mr. Saxena, can engage a consumer in a dialogue. It can listen to and respond to, say, four or five follow-up questions and remember the previous questions a person had.
"That's the difference," he said, "between a question-and-answer system and a conversational system."
Those who have been shown demonstrations of Watson's new capabilities sound impressed. Joyce Phillips, chief executive of ANZ Bank's wealth management and private banking group, plans to use Watson to assist financial advisers in coming up with investment, insurance and pension offerings that are better tailored to the needs of individual clients.
ANZ, a major banking group in Australia and New Zealand, is still testing the Watson technology. But Ms. Phillips said: "We're pretty confident that this technology will help transform our business. It's a tool that will make our advisers smarter."
At the Nielsen Company, the media measurement and market research firm, Randall Beard, global head of advertiser solutions, wants to use Watson to instantly sift through and make sense of all the data advertisers receive about their Web, social media, print and television marketing campaigns.
"You want to optimize campaigns in real time across every marketing channel, to see what people are watching and what are they buying to accurately measure ad effectiveness," Mr. Beard said. "We think there's a real opportunity here."
But the Watson opportunity has not yet been tested. Companies so far have signed agreements to develop projects to try out the I.B.M. technology. Out in the wild, when thousands of customers are asking questions all at once, will the promise of Watson's technology prove itself? Will its conversations with people seem smart, as if it is listening and learning?
That would appear to be a tall order. Still, Watson's introduction to the wider world will be far more controlled than Siri's introduction in October 2011. Amid high expectations, fueled by Apple's polished marketing campaign, Siri was instantly subjected to all kinds of messy human questions, on every imaginable subject. Inevitably, Siri often stumbled at first, becoming the subject of ridicule and jokes on late-night television.
But the bar will most likely be lower for Watson in business than it was for Siri in the consumer market. If the basis of comparison for Watson is the current state of voice-automated systems in call centers, the newcomer, analysts say, could well come out a winner.
"People are free-form, and they ask questions in different ways," said Mary Wardley, an analyst at IDC. "If Watson can learn and offer more personalized answers, it could be a very useful tool in solving customer service problems."

        
I.B.M. Chief on Watson, Cognitive Computing and Her Tenure
        
I.B.M. Looks Ahead to a Sensor Revolution and Cognitive Computers
        
Pentagon's Top Technologist Joins I.B.M.
        
I.B.M.'s Watson Goes to Medical School
        
The Future of High-Tech Health Care - and the Challenge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (86%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (78%); VOICE RECOGNITION (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (76%); CANCER (76%); STARTUPS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (63%); VENTURE CAPITAL (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) Rometty, Virginia M; Artificial Intelligence; Customer Relations; Supercomputers; International Business Machines Corporation; Australia; Apple's Siri; International Business Machines Corporation|IBM|NYSE; Data; Enterprise Computing

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); WELLPOINT INC (57%); M D ANDERSON CANCER CENTER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corporation

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); WLP (NYSE) (57%) International Business Machines Corporation; IBM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (57%)

PERSON: VIRGINIA ROMETTY (78%) Rometty, Virginia M

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



688 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 5142 words

HEADLINE: Live Blog: Apple and Corporate Taxes

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A Senate panel questioned Timothy D. Cook, Apple&#8217;s chief executive, and other Apple executives about how Apple sidestepped tens of billions of dollars in taxes. 

 BODY:
A Senate panel is examining how Apple sidestepped tens of billions of dollars in taxes around the world.
The panel is led by Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and a fierce critic of what he sees as corporate wrongdoing. He and other panel members questioned Timothy D. Cook, a 15-year Apple veteran who took over as chief executive in 2011, and two of his top aides: Peter Oppenheimer, the company's chief financial officer, and Phillip A. Bullock, its head of tax operations.
The panel also heard from two academic experts on tax policy, Stephen E. Shay of Harvard Law School andJ. Richard Harvey from the Villanova University School of Law. The hearing is concluding with the appearance of two senior officials from the Internal Revenue Service, Samuel M. Maruca and Mark J. Mazur.
 1:39 P.M. | Second Panel Ends 
And with that, the first two panels are over and we're going to sign off from the live blog. The next panel is with two government officials, Mark J. Mazur, an assistant secretary for tax policy at the Treasury Department, and Samuel M. Maruca, of the I.R.S.
- Joseph Plambeck 
 1:34 P.M. | Levin Continues on Moving Profits to Ireland 
Mr. Cook repeats that all profits made in United States are taxed in the United States. But Senator Levin says Apple made a decision and signed an agreement in 2008 and 2009 to shift most of its profit so that it was not taxed. The result is most of the profit is in Ireland. Senator Levin says "in order to change it, we need to understand it, not deny it." He says the committee needs to recognize that what is going on is "a huge loss of revenue."
- Brian X. Chen 
 1:29 P.M. | Levin Digs In 
Senator Levin reiterates that Apple made a decision to shift its "crown jewels" in terms of economic value and rights, despite the economic implications on American revenue. Mr. Oppenheimer repeats that Apple originally went to Ireland to sell computers overseas, and that continues. But Senator Levin says that two-thirds of Apple's profits are in Irish companies. 
"That's because of the way we set ourselves up 30 years ago," Mr. Oppenheimer says.
- Brian X. Chen 
 1:27 P.M. | Cook on Apple's Current Tax Plan 
Senator Levin asks Mr. Cook if it is true that Apple has no plan to bring its overseas profits home unless American tax rates change. Mr. Cook responds, "I have no current plan to bring them back at the current tax rate."
Senator Levin says there is an agreement to shift economic rights to three Irish companies that pay no taxes. "That's the golden goose, your crown jewels." Apple has $100 billion in profit sitting there, he says, and Apple does not think it has to pay taxes on it. Mr. Oppenheimer says he disagrees with the characterization that the economic rights were shifted.
- Brian X. Chen 
 1:23 P.M. | Levin Steps In on Bringing Money to U.S. 
Senator Levin says that of course Apple can bring its profits home. "You bring them home from South America, don't you?" he says. Mr. Bullock says there is a selling profit in Brazil, Canada and Mexico and other countries. He says those profits are generated by Apple Inc., as opposed to "bringing the money home." 
Mr. Levin says that three people working at Apple signed an agreement to ship its "crown jewels" to Irish companies. Mr. Cook and Mr. Bullock say they disagree with Mr. Levin's characterization. "You shifted the economic rights to the most valuable thing you own, intellectual property," to those three Irish corporations you own, Senator Levin says. "That's the facts. And now those profits are abroad." 
Of course Apple can bring the profits home, if it pays the tax on them, he says. "The only reason you're not bringing them home is because they were transferred to these three Irish companies," he said. "That's the reason why they're there. It's your decision not to bring those profits home, so now $100 billion plus is stashed away in those three Irish companies that you control but is nonetheless in their legal name. The question is, will you bring them home?"
- Brian X. Chen 
 1:12 P.M. | A Comparison With Samsung 
Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican, begins his line of questioning. He asks whether Apple's biggest competitor is Samsung, and Mr. Cook confirms it is a major competitor. Mr. Portman says Apple and Samsung pay about the same global tax rates - about 14 percent for both companies. But Mr. Oppenheimer points out that there is a difference, in that Samsung, based in South Korea, is able to freely move its money home. Mr. Portman agrees that it's worse for Apple because it can't bring its foreign money home.
- Brian X. Chen 
 1:04 P.M. | Challenges From U.S. Court System 
Senator Ayotte asks Mr. Cook about Apple's challenges in China, and how do address those challenges.
Mr. Cook says Apple has faced more significant challenges in countries other than China. The American court system, he said, makes it is very difficult to get the protection a technology company needs because business cycles are very fast but the court system is very slow. That allows foreign competitors to take certain intellectual property and quickly built it into products that can be sold before a court rules. He says Apple would like to see companies worldwide strengthen intellectual property globally. "I would love the system to be strengthened in order to protect it," he says.

Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this entry misstated what Mr. Cook said Apple wanted to see strengthened globally. He said the company wanted intellectual property strengthened, not Internet Protocol. 
- Brian X. Chen 
 1:02 P.M. | Possible Benefits of Changing Tax Code 
Senator Ayotte asks: "If you were in our position and thinking about tax policy, and making sure our country remains competitive, how important do you think it is that we change the tax code to ensure this remains a good place for investment?"
Mr. Cook says the United States would have a much stronger economy if the government updated the tax code, and that it would create more jobs and encourage investment. "I put my whole weight and force behind that," he says.
- Brian X. Chen 
 1:00 P.M. | The Best Repatriation Rate 
Senator Kelly A. Ayotte, a New Hampshire Republican, asks Mr. Cook what the repatriation rate should be - not only for Apple but for multinational corporations around the world. 
Mr. Cook says the rate would need to be in the mid-20s, as all the expenditures are dropped out. He said he thought it would need to be a single-digit rate to persuade a large number of companies to bring back foreign earnings. "It would be great for growth in this country," he said. "That's the reason I feel so adamant about doing this."
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:52 P.M. | U.S. and International Sales 
In response to questions about offshore tax allocations, Mr. Cook says that everything Apple sells in the United States is taxed in the United States. Mr. Bullock reiterates that 100 percent of anything sold in the United States is fully taxed in the country. There are no outbound payments going offshore.
Generally Apple's Mac business has a larger percentage of its sales in America than internationally, Mr. Cook says. The iPhone has a larger percentage of international sales than domestic sales. The iPhone has higher margins, he says, so it's natural that Apple has a more profitable product mix internationally than in the United States.
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:44 P.M. | Discussion on Taxing Apple's Borrowing 
Senator McCaskill says Apple borrowed $17 billion and issued bonds to shareholders fairly recently - and that she doesn't judge Apple for that. But she asks, "Should you be able to deduct interest on those? Would that be one of the corporate expenditures to do away with?" Mr. Cook says it could be. It's something that the Congressional committee should talk about in terms of doing comprehensive tax reform, he says.
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:43 P.M. | Cook on Moving Money Back to U.S. 
Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat from Missouri, asks Mr. Cook for some feedback on American tax reform. Mr. Cook says the United States has "such enormous advantages." But the barrier right now in terms of repatriating cash is that it is repatriated at the 35 percent level, he says. He says his proposal is to eliminate all corporate tax expenditures into a really simple tax system and have a reasonable tax on bringing money back overseas. "Then many companies would bring back capital to invest in the United States."
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:16 P.M. | More Details on Role of a Subsidiary 
Mr. Cook is asked why Apple Operations International exists, and he replies that it was created in 1980, before the days of the iPod, iPhone and Mac.
The relationship between Apple and the Irish government is still there today, he says. Mr. Cook says Apple has built a significant skill base there of people who understand the European market and serve their functions well. A.O.I., he says, "is nothing more than a holding company - it's not an operating company." The dividends that go into this have been taxed appropriately in their local jurisdiction, Mr. Cook says.
A.O.I. "is nothing more than a company that has been set up to provide an efficient way to manage Apple's cash from income that's already been taxed," he says. 
"In my view A.O.I. does not reduce U.S. taxes at all," he says.
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:13 P.M. | A Closer Look at Cook's Statement 
In his statement to the Senate panel, Mr. Cook made several questionable assertions. Here are some examples:
1) "We don't rely on tax gimmicks." The precise definition of the word "gimmick" may be debatable, but Apple's use of two Irish entities, which it claims are stateless (and help it sidestep $10 billion per year in taxes, according to the Congressional report) would seem to qualify.
2) "We don't move its intellectual property into offshore tax havens." Apple's intellectual property is held by its Irish subsidiary, Apple Operations International, which has no employees or physical presence in Ireland, has received $30 billion in income since 2009 and paid no income tax to any government for the past five years, according to Congressional investigators. Ireland is not on the official list of tax havens compiled by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, but it is offshore and Apple's special deal with the country allowed the company to enjoy rates lower than some companies that shelter income in the Caribbean. What's more, Apple's unique agreement hinges on its ability to take advantage of a wrinkle in Irish tax law that allows it to avoid Irish taxes by holding a fraction of its ownership in a shell company called Baldwin Holdings Ltd. in the British Virgin Islands. 
3) "We don't stash money on some Caribbean island." While perhaps true, this is not necessarily a strong defense. The tens of billions of dollars that Apple does not pay taxes on because they are classified as "permanently invested offshore" are actually held in New York banks. They are managed by Braeburn Capital, a subsidiary Apple opened in Reno, Nev., to avoid some state taxes in California and other states.
4) "These foreign earnings are taxed in the jurisdiction where they are earned." Apple booked more than $74 billion in sales from dozens of countries around the world to its subsidiary Apple Sales International over the last four years. Although the subsidiary is based in Ireland, Apple accountants and corporate executives contend that, for tax purposes, it is not a resident of any country.
 - David Kocieniewski 
- David Kocieniewski 
 12:12 P.M. | Cook Says He Sees No Tax Shifting 
Apple pays 30.5 percent of its profits in taxes in the United States, Mr. Cook says. He says he doesn't know where it stacks up compared with other companies but it must be "extremely high" on the list. He says it does have low tax rates outside the United States, but that those rates are for products that it sells outside the United States. "There's no shifting going on that I see at all," he says.
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:11 P.M. | McCain Begins His Questioning 
Senator McCain begins his questioning of Apple. He congratulates Mr. Cook for his success at Apple, and asks whether Mr. Cook feels bullied or harassed, as Senator Paul had implied earlier. Mr. Cook replies, "I feel very good to be participating in this." He says he hopes to help comprehensive tax reform to pass, and Apple is ready to help in any way it can.
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:04 P.M. | Details on Taxes Paid by Subsidiary 
Mr. Bullock confirms that Apple Operations International is incorporated in Ireland. It is not a tax resident, he says - though he said tax on the interest that it earned was paid in full by Apple Inc. The income of the subsidiaries has been subject to tax in the countries where they operate, Mr. Bullock said. There is no American tax on the transfer of those balances to A.O.I. The income earned by Apple Sales International and Apple Operations Europe has been subject to Irish tax in full, he said, in accordance to its agreement in Ireland.
- Brian X. Chen 
 12:00 P.M. | Control of Foreign Subsidiaries 
In response to questioning from Senator Levin, Phillip A. Bullock, Apple's head of tax operations, confirmed that Apple owns the foreign subsidiaries Apple Operations International (A.O.I.), Apple Operations Europe (A.O.E.) and Apple Sales International (A.S.I.). Mr. Cook confirms that A.O.I.'s central operation is based in the United States. Mr. Bullock confirms that A.O.E. is functionally managed and controlled in the United States.
Mr. Cook says Apple has significant employment in Ireland. He confirms that A.S.I. is functionally managed and controlled in the United States.
- Brian X. Chen 
 11:57 A.M. | Chief Financial Officer on Workers in Ireland 
Mr. Oppenheimer says Apple employs almost 4,000 people at its subsidiary in Ireland, and that there have been thousands of workers there for many years. 
He says if Apple had used foreign earnings to return capital, the funds would have been diminished by the American tax rate of 35 percent.
- Brian X. Chen 
 11:55 A.M. | Push for Simplified Tax Code 
Mr. Cook says, "We recommend a dramatic simplification of the corporate tax code," comparable to Apple's appreciation for simplicity.
Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, begins his statement. He says Apple pays taxes to federal, state and local government on full profits from sales. He says that the company sells the iPhone and iPad in over 100 countries, and that Apple must follow the laws and regulations in each region where it operates.
- Brian X. Chen 
 11:53 A.M. | Cook's Prepared Statement 
Mr. Cook's full prepared testimony. Other prepared statements are also available on the subcommittee's Web site.
- Joseph Plambeck 
 11:47 A.M. | Cooks Says Tax System Is a Handicap 
Mr. Cook says Apple does not use tax gimmicks - a statement that the earlier experts had criticized. He says Apple uses earnings to finance Apple retail stores around the world, among other activities. "Unfortunately the tax code has not kept up with the digital age," he says. He adds that the tax system handicaps American corporations in relation to foreign competitors who don't have restraints with the free movement of foreign capital.
- Brian X. Chen 
 11:44 A.M. | Is Apple an American Company? 
Mr. Cook says Apple has enjoyed unprecedented success over the last 10 years, and the worldwide popularity of its products has soared. Its international revenue is now twice as large as its domestic revenue. 
"As a result I'm often asked if Apple still considers itself an American company," he says. "My answer has always been an emphatic yes. We are proud to be an American company and equally proud of our contributions to the U.S. economy."
- Brian X. Chen 
 11:43 A.M. | Tim Cook Gives Opening Statement 
Apple's chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, has now started his opening statement, talking about jobs and how Apple has created hundreds of thousand of them, and that the company has employees in every state. 
He says, to his knowledge, Apple has become the largest corporate taxpayer in the United States. He said the company expects to pay even more taxes this year.
- Joseph Plambeck 
 11:38 A.M. | A Break Before Next Panel 
The academics have been excused. Our coverage will continue when the hearing resumes.
- Jeff Sommer 
 11:36 A.M. | A Response to Paul's Statement 
Professor Shay said, "Nobody is trying to vilify Apple. Nobody is trying to say they are wrong but frankly nobody is saying there should be no adjustments to their income." 
As far as he knows, he said, Apple's tax returns have not been scrutinized by the committee and therefore, he cannot comment on whether they have acted properly. Mr. Cook is visible and frowning.
- Jeff Sommer 
 11:27 A.M. | Paul Defends Apple's Tax Strategy 
Senator Paul again defends Apple, saying it has quite rationally chosen to "minimize" its tax burden. "It would probably be malpractice for them not to do so," said Mr. Paul, who, in addition to being a politician, is also a physician.
He said he objects to the hearings because they are not focused on granting a tax holiday for foreign corporations. "Money goes where it is welcome," he said. "Everybody talks about tax reform. Just do it."
Apple should be applauded, he said, not "vilified."
- Jeff Sommer 
 11:26 A.M. | Tax Holidays as a Possible Solution 
Both professors said they did not favor tax holidays. A substantial portion of tax profits held overseas belong in the United States, Mr. Shay said.
Over his left shoulder, one can now see Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, shifting in his seat and clutching a water bottle. He is expected to testify shortly.
 11:21 A.M. | McCain Calls for Comprehensive Tax Reform 
"Apple has violated the spirit of the law if not the letter of the law," Senator McCain said. A great deal of the responsibility, he said, "lies with Congress." It's past time for a "comprehensive reform" of the tax system, he said.
- Jeff Sommer 
 11:19 A.M. | The Fairness of Apple's Practices 
Senator McCain asked the two professors whether, by taking a tax deduction in a country in which Apple "has no employees," Apple has put other companies at a disadvantage. The two professors said it certainly has.
And Professor Shay added that the global tax system was out of balance. Most of the creative work on Apple products is done in the United States but a proportionate amount of tax revenue, he said, is not flowing into the Treasury's coffers.
- Jeff Sommer 
 11:15 A.M. | Opinions on Recommendations of Simpson-Bowles 
Senator Tom Carper, Democrat of Delaware, asked the tax experts to give their opinion on the recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles commission on tax reform. 
Professor Shay said the "realism of eliminating all tax expenditures is somewhat overstated; I don't think it's going to happen." 
He said "we need more revenues" from taxes. Professor Shay, a former Treasury official in the Reagan administration, said that making significant changes in the tax code is likely to take "considerable time."
Professor Harvey added that he would emphasize that it's crucial to avoid tax "base erosion," in which taxpayers, presumably like Apple, find ways of circumventing the tax code.
 An earlier version of this update incorrectly referred to Senator Carper's home state. He is from Delaware, not Wisconsin. 
- Jeff Sommer 
 11:10 A.M. | Question on Leeway for Multinationals 
Professor Harvey said, "When you have 64 percent of your income in a country like Ireland" with no employees there and minimal sales, there's a serious problem. "Are you going to let us multinationals effectively have full rein to move all their earnings offshore?" 
These are difficult issues, he said, but Congress needs to face up to them.
Meanwhile, my colleague Nelson D. Schwartz reports from the hearing room that Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, has arrived and taken his seat in the witness section with an entourage from Apple.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:56 A.M. | A View on Apple's Cost-Sharing 
Professor Shay says that viewing Apple's cost-sharing with its subsidiaries as anything other than tax avoidance strains credulity.
"There are bad deals out there," he said. "This would be a whopper. A whopper against Apple." 
This deal was not an arms-length transaction between independent companies, he suggested. Consider this, he said: "Would you still own the stock if somebody gave away that much income?" The answer, he implied, was clearly no, but the deal makes sense because of its tax implications.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:51 A.M. | Rethinking Rules for Digital Economy 
"We talk about globalization," Professor Shay said. "We are aware that we have a digital economy. We have ways of earning income that no longer have a physical nexus" to a specific country. "It is import to rethink our rules," he said.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:46 A.M. | Professor Shay's Recommendation 
Professor Shay says Congress shouldn't wait for major systemic tax reform before addressing "income shifting" of the kind highlighted by the committee. And he applauds the committee for bringing to light international tax practices "that are not easily understood."
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:42 A.M. | Professor Shay on Location of Apple's Income 
Professor Shay said the average effective book tax rate for Apple's Irish companies was well below 1 percent. Although Apple has listed their "location for tax purposes as Ireland," he said, he learned for the first time on Sunday night that two of Apple's subsidiaries, Apple Operations Europe and Apple Sales International, actually "are not tax residents in Ireland." 
"It's not clear" where taxes on most of their income is paid, he said. Their income is being designated as belonging nowhere. It appears, he said, to be what is "oddly referred to by international tax planners as 'ocean income.'"
 10:41 A.M. | Discussion of Possible Long-Term Solutions 
Professor Harvey raises possible long-term solutions, and says he does not recommend that the United States adopt a worldwide tax system unless it reduces its corporate rate to 15 percent, which he says he thinks is not likely. If the current system allowing "transfer-pricing" is retained, he said, it needs to be clearer and made more easily administrated. And he relinquishes the floor to Professor Shay of Harvard.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:37 A.M. | Tax Loopholes as Magic 
Professor Harvey discussed various tax loopholes, including "check-the-box tax rules." One of his children is an aficionado of magic tricks, he said. Using his son's language, he said, "check-the-box" is a technique that enables Apple to "make its taxes go poof."
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:29 A.M. | Professor on Apple's 'Tax Gimmicks' 
In 2011, Professor Harvey said, Apple allocated $22 billion in profit to Apple Sales International in Ireland, which enabled Apple to "accomplish a .05 percent tax rate."
He said that he would digress for a moment to rebut Apple's prepared testimony, which includes the assertion that "Apple does not use tax gimmicks."
When he read that, he said, "I just about fell off my chair." Any reasonable person would conclude that these are tax gimmicks, he said.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:26 A.M. | Witnesses Begin Testimony 
Senator Levin has introduced two academic experts, Stephen E. Shay of Harvard Law School and J. Richard Harvey of Villanova University School of Law. Professor Harvey has started his testimony on transfer pricing and shifting of profits by multinationals offshore, and on Apple's specific tax planning techniques. 
Apple, he said, was able to allocate 64 percent of its income to Ireland, which, he said, is "really an entity only on paper." He said that Apple "isn't as aggressive as others." What is "scary," he said, is that many companies would have gone even further. He questions whether the current global system that allows such tax avoidance makes any sense.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:21 A.M. | A Proposal From Senator Paul 
Senator Paul said he had proposed a bill to tax repatriated capital held overseas by American company at 5 percent, instead of at the statutory rate of 35 percent. Companies like Apple would then bring their cash back home, he said. (Apple has more than $100 billion in "offshore" cash, the company acknowledges.)
The returned cash would go into a fund for infrastructure reconstruction, he said, and then he returned the floor to Senator Levin.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:20 A.M. | A Sharply Different Take From Rand Paul 
Senator Rand Paul, the Kentucky Republican, has taken the floor with a very different tone. He says he is "offended" by the hearings. Who, he said, doesn't try to minimize their own taxes? 
"Tell me what Apple has done that's illegal," he said.
He said he's offended by an I.R.S. that bullies the Tea Party, and that he's offended by a government that is trying to "bully" a great company, and called the hearing "a show trial."
He continued along these lines on Twitter:
If there is anyone to blame here it is not Apple, it is Congress and the tax code it created.
- Senator Rand Paul (@SenRandPaul)21 May 13
To US Senate: I say, instead of Apple executives, you should have brought in a giant mirror if you want to see who is responsible.
- Senator Rand Paul (@SenRandPaul)21 May 13
I am offended by the spectacle of dragging in here executives from Apple using the brute force of government to bully a great success story.
- Senator Rand Paul (@SenRandPaul)21 May 13
I am offended by a $4 trillion government bullying, berating and badgering one of America's greatest success stories.
- Senator Rand Paul (@SenRandPaul)21 May 13
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:15 A.M. | McCain on Irish Subsidiaries 
From 2009 to 2012, Apple Operations International in Ireland received $30 billion in dividend income from other Apple subsidiaries around the world, Mr. McCain said. While the company held tens of billions of dollars in cash it appeared to have no employees.
He said that 95 percent of Apple's research and development takes place in the United States. Less than 1 percent of it takes place in Ireland. And, he said, Apple's Irish subsidiaries are a "tax resident nowhere in the world," a nebulous legal status that allows the parent company to avoid taxes globally. 
Senator McCain has concluded his statement.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:07 A.M. | Levin Calls for Crackdown on Loopholes 
While Apple says it paid $6 billion in federal taxes in 2012, Mr. Levin said, it also avoided $9 billion in United States taxes that year. That, he said, amounts to $25 million a day, or more than $1 million an hour.
After calling for a crackdown on tax loopholes, he gave the floor to Senator John McCain, Republican from Arizona, who also began his presentation by saying how much he admired Apple as a creator of great products. Senator McCain decried what he described as Apple's "scheme" to avoid taxes.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:04 A.M. | A Comparison With Apple's U.S. Earnings 
Senator Levin compares Apple's earnings in the United States with its earning through its Irish subsidiaries. From 2009 to 2012, Apple Inc. in the United States paid $4 billion and declared profits of $38 billion. In other words, he said, its Irish subsidiary received almost twice the profits that its parent did from intellectual property developed by Apple in the United States.
"It's hard to imagine Apple offering such a deal at any price" to an outside company, Mr. Levin said.
- Jeff Sommer 
 10:00 A.M. | Almost $70 Billion in Missed Taxable Income 
Figures provided by Apple over a four-year period, from 2009 to 2012, show that one Irish subsidiary paid approximately $5 billion to the parent company in the United States as the subsidiary's share of research and development costs, Senator Levin said. During that period, the subsidiary received profits of $74 billion. The difference, almost $70 billion, is how much taxable income would have otherwise flowed to the United States, he said.
- Jeff Sommer 
 9:57 A.M. | Other Common Tax Avoidance Strategies 
Mr. Levin has moved on to other tax avoidance strategies. He focuses on one that he said is more common among United States companies. That is "transfer pricing," under which a company shifts intellectual property abroad, allowing it to shift taxable income to low-tax havens.
"Apple set up its cost-sharing agreements with its Irish subsidiaries," he said. He added: "I use the term 'cost-sharing' with some skepticism," because ultimately it is about shifting profits away from the United States and "instead concentrating the lion's share of profits from most of the world to Apple's subsidiaries in Ireland."
- Jeff Sommer 
 9:54 A.M. | Apple Exploits an Absurdity, Levin Says 
"Apple is exploiting an absurdity, one that we have not seen other companies use," Senator Levin said.
But he added that this situation need not continue. "It is possible to penetrate an entity's corporate structure for tax purposes and to collect U.S. taxes on its income," he said. This can be done by showing that a part of the company created to avoid taxes is "nothing more than instrumentality of its parent company, a sham."
Three of Apple's subsidiaries "sure seem to fit that description," he said.
- Jeff Sommer 
 9:50 A.M. | Levin on Apple's Corporations in Ireland 
Apple has created corporations in Ireland that enable it to avoid United States taxes, Senator Levin said. Apple Operations International is one of them. It is incorporated in Ireland. But, he said, "Magically it is neither here nor there," as far as taxes are concerned.
- Jeff Sommer 
 9:47 A.M. | Professor Says Cost-Sharing Deals Saved Apple Billions 
In his opening testimony, J. Richard Harvey Jr., a professor at Villanova Law School, estimates that cost-sharing agreements alone saved the company $7.7 billion in potential American taxes in 2011.
"Apple is an iconic U.S. multinational corporation that has enjoyed extraordinary financial success," he will tell the committee, according to prepared testimony. "In addition to demonstrating excellence in designing, building and selling consumer products, Apple has been very successful at minimizing its global income tax burden."
In 2011, 64 percent of Apple's global pretax income was recorded in Ireland, where only 4 percent of its employees and 1 percent of its customers are located, according to Professor Harvey.
- Nelson D. Schwartz 
 9:42 A.M. | Hearing Begins 
Senator Carl Levin, chairman of the subcommittee, begins the hearing by saying that like millions of other Americans, he uses Apple products like an iPhone. But, he said, Apple is seeking "the holy grail of tax avoidance" with tax strategies that are unique.
- Jeff Sommer 

        
AT&T Is Said to Have Exposed iPad Owners' E-Mail Addresses
        
Apple's Peter Oppenheimer Is Highest Paid Finance Chief
        
The Check Is in the Mail, From Apple
        
Why Tim Cook Is Like Steve Ballmer
        
Daily Report: Apple's Profits Are Strong but Its Shares Are Skidding

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); POLITICS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); LAWYERS (71%) apple; Corporate Taxes; United States Politics and Government; Apple Inc; Apple Inc|AAPL|NASDAQ; Policy

COMPANY: APPLE INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (86%) Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (86%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (86%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (89%); CARL LEVIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



689 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: A Survival Plan for America's Tornado Danger Zone

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: There are affordable ways to live more safely in tornado zones. 

 BODY:
The horror confronting residents and emergency workers probing the tornado wreckage in Oklahoma is unimaginable for those of us elsewhere. Collapsed schools, disintegrated homes, crushed cars and more. The main focus should be on aid.
But it's worth beginning a conversation about ways to live safer in such hazard zones given that this storm season is just getting under way and that big regions of America's tornado hot zone have deep vulnerability resulting from runaway growth and a human tendency to discount threats that have a low probability but disastrous potential. (The same issues are driving exposure to danger in hurricane zones.)
At the bottom of this post I'm appending a moving and important contribution from Kevin Simmons, an economist who blogs on the economics of natural hazards and is co-author, with Daniel Sutter, of "Economic and Societal Impacts of Tornadoes." Simmons said there'll be many lessons learned in examining where deaths occurred and were avoided in the path of this astounding twister. He noted the example of two destroyed schools:
Briarwood Elementary and Plaza Tower Elementary are about a mile apart and both were in the path of the storm. As of this writing there are no fatalities at Briarwood and many from Plaza Tower. 
He stressed it's too soon to know whether it was simple luck or other factors that made the difference.
[May 22, 9:44 a.m. | The Times reports that only 10 percent of homes in Moore have safe rooms or shelters.]
[May 21, 3:39 p.m. | The Associated Press has cited officials saying that the two schools did not have tornado safe rooms. The same issue is seen in Oregon, where hundreds of schools are known to be at risk from the next big earthquake.]
Read on below. 
First, here's a collection of readings that can hopefully offer a sustainable path for communities in this and other regions of the country where such devastation is an inevitable hazard - even as tornado droughts and outbreaks come and go.

Growth 
First, it's important to understand the demographic shifts and regulatory gaps that have put so many people in harm's way. Nowhere is the explosive growth rate around Oklahoma City put in clearer language than on the Web site of the City of Moore, which was ground zero for this enormous tornado and the most potent tornado ever recorded, on May 3, 1999:
The little town [founded in 1889 during the land rush] slumbered comfortably for seventy years - then it exploded in a frenzy of expansion and development that attracted attention nationwide. In 1961 approximately 21.6 square miles of additional territory was annexed and Moore became a city in 1962. The decade of the 60's saw Moore's population soar.
The 1970 census showed an increase of more than 950% for a total of 18,761. The 1980 Census recorded 35,063 residents - an 86% growth rate. Moore continued to grow during the 80's, with the 1990 Census indicating a 15% increase to 40,318. The 2010 population for Moore is 55,081.
On May 3, 1999, Moore experienced the most violent tornado ever recorded. As a result, over 1,000 dwelling units were destroyed and some 3,000 to 4,000 residents were either temporarily or permanently displaced. Several hundred homes have been rebuilt, and Moore is almost 100% recovered from that devastating storm.
 Construction 
Much of the building boom that accompanied this population surge has not taken into account the implicit tornado danger in the region. Building codes don't require safe rooms, despite years of research (and vivid examples after disasters) demonstrating how a few thousand dollars can save lives.
Oklahoma and the federal government have been encouraging safer construction in tornado zones. The state is in the second year of a program offering a limited number of $2,000 rebates through a lottery to cut the cost of adding a safe room to a home. But tornado-safe construction is still not the norm.
A superb resource is the Wind Science and Engineering Research Center at Texas Tech University.
Also read the Federal Emergency Management Agency document "Taking Shelter From the Storm: Building a Safe Room For Your Home or Small Business."
This is a pretty compelling sales pitch from Storm Shelters of Oklahoma LLC:
Would you own a car without seat belts or an airbag? Would you drive your one year old baby to day care without a proper child seat?
NO because we want our family and loved ones to be safe at all cost!
So why would you tell your family and loved ones to lay in a bathtub or under a staircase with a mattress over there head when the winds are going to reach in excess of 200 mph and can tear a house down to a bare slab in the matter of seconds?
[9:41 p.m. | I urge you to watch and share this video testimonial on the merits of a safe room, posted by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Tom Cook, who lost his wife in a tornado in 2008 in Racine, Mo., describes how he moved with his daughter to Joplin, Mo., but to a house with a safe room. They survived the great Joplin tornado of 2011.]
 Schools 
It's too soon to know if the destroyed schools were built to the best standards and followed recommended preparations and procedures. Here are two invaluable documents for communities in tornado hot zones:
"Tornado Preparedness Tips for School Administrators," by Roger Edwards of the federal Storm Prediction Center in Norman, Okla.
"Designing School Safe Rooms," written by two engineers at Toth and Associates, Brian M. Orr and Brent M. Davis. They note that cost is not prohibitive:
Creating safe havens in schools to protect against tornadoes can greatly aid communities while not blowing the budget if they are designed efficiently and early in the process
Here's the note from Kevin M. Simmons, who is the Corrigan Chair of Economics and Business Administration at Austin College (he'll be posting a version of this on his blog later this morning but gave permission for me to reproduce it):
Once again we are reminded of the violent nature of tornadoes. Tornadoes are not rare but a violent tornado (EF-4 or EF-5) hitting a populated area will, more often than not, mean tragedy. This one is personal for me. My family lived in OKC from 1999 through 2003. We were a part of the OKC community for the May 3, 1999 tornado and the May 15, 2003 tornado. Our son and his family still live there. So there is a visceral feeling as I watch the images of the unfolding event and the tragic aftermath.
 Casualties 
At this moment, the OKC Medical Examiner [is estimating 91 fatalities] but no one will be surprised if that number rises. That is larger than the 1999 tornado. In fact, you have to go back to the 1947 Woodward tornado to exceed the number of fatalities from this storm. Injury numbers have not been released but it is likely that the number of injuries will be over 1000.
 Damage 
I'm often asked about damage the day after an event has occurred. At this point, only broad guesses are possible but if you consider the 1999 tornado as a guide, the damages will be in the billions. That tornado created damage of $1 billion and adjusted for inflation that number would be about $1.5 billion. I would consider that a good guess for a lower end for estimated damage. The Joplin tornado two years ago suffered $3 billion in damages.
 Storyline 
As the days unfold, people will form opinions about this event. There are three storylines that I expect will dominate the coverage and I'd like to address those.
1) First and foremost this is the story of a violent tornado in an urban area. As more and more people move into areas vulnerable to tornadoes, the population density rises. Tornadoes are a normal part of life in the plains and sometimes the atmospheric conditions are conducive to creating a monster storm. If that storm races across an open field, it's an interesting event to watch, from a safe distance. But if that storm strikes a populated area, buildings will be destroyed and people will suffer injuries and regrettably some will perish. Urban sprawl is not going away so the job of researchers is to search for ways to minimize those casualties.
2) This is the third violent tornado to hit Moore in the last 15 years. The tempting storyline is to ask, "What is unique about Moore?". But the question pre-supposes that tornadoes return to paths that they visited in the past. It certainly appears that way. Several times in the last few hours I have seen the path of the 1999 storm overlaid with the path of this one. I'm surprised that the 2003 path has not been on the same graphic as it also had a similar path through Moore. Harold Brooks did a very good job in attempting to dispel this analysis when he was interviewed on MSNBC. He pointed out that central Oklahoma is located where the warm, moist air from the Gulf collides with the cool dry air coming off the Rockies and that this confluence provides the necessary ingredients for violent tornadoes. Any community in central Oklahoma has the same chance of witnessing a violent tornado. In 2011, an EF-5 tornado hit El Reno which is located on northwest of the OKC metro area. Fewer people were killed simply due to the lower population density.
3) The final storyline that I expect will be discussed deals with the two schools tragically hit by this tornado. Briarwood Elementary and Plaza Tower Elementary are about a mile apart and both were in the path of the storm. As of this writing there are no fatalities at Briarwood and many from Plaza Tower. Why? This is an important area of inquiry and the reasons are likely complex. It could be engineering. Was one school built differently from the other? It could be storm intensity. Along a tornadoes path, the intensity will vary. A small change in intensity can have different effects on buildings and it could be that the change in intensity was sufficient to create very different outcomes on buildings so close to each other. It could be location. The path of the storm is estimated to be a mile wide. But wind intensities vary within the path with the strongest winds toward the center. Or it could be tragic luck. Where in the building were the children when struck by the storm?
Tornadoes are both fascinating and terrifying events. I have lived in this part of the country all my life and have developed a respect for the power of nature. It is my hope and prayer that the victims of this tragedy find the help that they need as they put the pieces of their lives back together.
 Climate Change

I'll add a final thought about the persistent discussion of the role of greenhouse-driven climate change in violent weather in Tornado Alley. [Andrew Freedman at Climate Central has a superb post on the climate angle.]
It's an important research question but, to me, has no bearing at all on the situation in the Midwest and South - whether there's a tornado outbreak or drought. The forces putting people in harm's way are demographic, economic, behavioral and architectural. Any influence of climate change on dangerous tornadoes (so far the data point to a moderatinginfluence ) is, at best, marginally relevant and, at worst, a distraction.
I sent the following note around this morning to a batch of climate scientists and disaster researchers (reprising a similar proposal in 2011):
The climate community did a great service to the country in 2006 in putting out a joint statement on the enormous human vulnerability in coastal zones to hurricanes - setting aside questions about the role of greenhouse-driven warming in changing hurricane patterns.
I think it's time for another - for Tornado Alley.
I hope they'll come through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TORNADOES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); WRITERS (68%) Design; disasters; engineering; risk; Weather

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



690 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Asia Society Names New Leader

BYLINE: ROBIN POGREBIN


HIGHLIGHT: Josette Sheeran, a top official of the World Economic Forum, will be the new president and chief executive of Asia Society. 

 BODY:
Josette Sheeran, vice chairwoman of the World Economic Forum, will be the new president and chief executive of Asia Society, the organization announced Tuesday. 
Ms. Sheeran will take over on June 10, replacing Vishakha N. Desai.
At the World Economic Forum, which holds the annual Davos and Davos in China gatherings of political and financial leaders, Ms. Sheeran has helped advance programs like Grow Africa, which has attracted $4 billion in investment to end hunger and malnutrition in Africa. This spring she served at the Harvard Kennedy School as a Fisher Fellow in the future of diplomacy.
Before joining the World Economic Forum, Ms. Sheeran was executive director of the United Nations World Food Program, leading a team of 13,000 people in more than 70 countries, and managing an annual budget of more than $3 billion, including $1 billion in Asia. Her "Ted Talk" on ending world hunger has been viewed more than 1,000,000 times.
Founded in 1956 by John D. Rockefeller 3rd, Asia Society is a nonpartisan, nonprofit institution "dedicated to promoting mutual understanding and strengthening partnerships among peoples, leaders and institutions of Asia and the United States" in the arts, business, education and policy. It has its headquarters in New York, with centers in Hong Kong and Houston and offices in Los Angeles, Manila, Mumbai, San Francisco, Seoul, Shanghai, Sydney, and Washington. 

        
Head of Asia Society Will Step Down After 22 Years
        
Asia Society Appoints Two Leaders
        
Cambodian Contemporary Arts to Be Showcased in New York Festival
        
Asia Society to Host China-India Program
        
Asia Society Plans Exhibition of Ai Weiwei New York Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); MALNUTRITION (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%) Asia Society; Davos (Switzerland); Desai, Vishakha N; Sheeran, Josette; World Economic Forum; World Food Program; New York City

ORGANIZATION: Asia Society; World Economic Forum; World Food Program

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (56%) Desai, Vishakha N; Sheeran, Josette

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); AFRICA (93%); ASIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Davos (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



691 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Despite Stumbles, a Promising Path for Start-Ups in Brazil

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: Investors and entrepreneurs say that economic conditions in Brazil are difficult, but that long-term prospects remain highly favorable. 

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO - Brazil's Internet start-ups were once the darlings of emerging markets, attracting venture capitalists from around the world. But after two-plus years of growth, the sector is facing tougher times. 
Numerous young companies, even those with prominent investors, are struggling to show sustainable profitability despite early rapid growth in revenue. A case in point: Shoes4You, an e-commerce site selling designer footwear, decided to close down last month, despite being backed by the prominent United States investment firms Redpoint Ventures, Accel Partners and Flybridge Capital Partners. 
Many in the industry consider its failure a harbinger of things to come. "I expect a lot of shut-downs, and that a lot of companies will be firing people," said one of the site's backers, Fabrice Grinda, a prominent French angel investor. 
Some blame the business environment and the costs of doing business. In the case of Shoes4You, costs like legal and tax matters along with underdeveloped e-commerce logistics made operations difficult, Olivier Grinda, the company's founder and Fabrice Grinda's brother, told DealBook. Ultimately, the company's subscription-based business model did not prove sustainable. 
Brazil's deteriorating macroeconomic conditions are also not helping entrepreneurs. Economic growth, for instance, slowed last year to 0.9 percent, compared with 2.7 percent in 2011. On April 17, the central bank raised its benchmark interest rate for the first time in almost two years in response to rising inflation. But despite the difficult environment, Brazilian start-ups still have supporters. 
The consensus among investors and entrepreneurs in Brazil is that the short term will be difficult, but that long-term prospects remain highly favorable. And even Silicon Valley investors who have seen ideas fail are still willing to make large bets. Accel says it has invested more than $25 million in Brazil over the last few years and expects to find more opportunities. Redpoint, including the Redpoint e.ventures fund, put in almost $40 million in 2012. 
"Silicon Valley's expectations were higher than they should have been in terms of the reality of the opportunity down there," said Jeff Brody, a founding partner of Redpoint Ventures. Yet he expects to maintain the same pace of investing this year, citing improved deal-flow and noting that "one of the things we have learned is that you need to invest steadily through the cycles." 
Together with San Francisco-based e.ventures, the firm raised a $130 million fund Last year run out of São Paulo. Even those critical of the sector are not yet replacing Brazil with other markets. At the Founders Forum, an annual gathering here in March, few investors spoke of shifting their investments to other Latin American markets like Mexico, Latin America's second-largest economy after Brazil.
"People realize that Mexico is less developed in the Internet space and that raising follow-on capital is even harder," said Jose Marin, a partner at the IG Expansion investment firm in Madrid and a host of the Founders Forum meeting. 
Local and regional firms also increased activity. Kaszek Ventures in Buenos Aires says it invested close to $30 million last year, and Monashees Capital, a São Paulo-based early stage fund, put just over $25 million in start-ups, according to a person with direct knowledge of the investments. 
All these firms and other resources like incubators helped make initial financing easier, but subsequent financing is still difficult, and investors are already warning founders to tighten their belts. 
"Companies will have a tough time raising money and do so more by begging and groveling with current investors," Fabrice Grinda, the investor, said. "It'll be a year of retrench and consolidation."
Initially, most investments made here by foreign venture capital firms were in a narrow range of Brazilian Internet or technology companies, sometimes called copycats because they replicate existing consumer Web business models in the United States or Europe.
Investors assumed Brazil's market was large enough to support multiple successful companies in each e-commerce vertical: for example pet supplies, fashion or taxi services. 
That turned out to be wildly optimistic. As a result, there was excessive competition for limited market share. 
Many of the complaints about Brazil "have very little to do with the market and more to do with our self-inflicted dynamics," said Kevin Efrusy, partner at Accel Partners, referring to hyper-competition in a narrow range of companies such that their success depends solely on execution rather than ideas. 
Still, Brazilian entrepreneurs have several trends in their favor. Overall e-commerce grew by 20 percent in 2012, according to the Brazilian consulting firm e-bit, and mobile represented only 2.5 percent of transactions, making it ripe for growth. 
Numerous sectors remain overlooked, like health care and education, and innovation in Brazil remains woefully underfinanced. 
Yet that is starting to change. For instance, Intel Capital, the venture capital arm of the Santa Clara-based chipmaker Intel, recently invested in Geofusion, a São Paulo-based software company. Finding more innovative companies that can leverage Brazil's market is not easy for foreign investors, but it can help reduce woes. 
Accel Partners, for example, made a later-stage growth investment in 2011 in the education company MindLab, but only after introduced to it by an earlier investor, Monashees Capital. 
Mr. Efrusy said Accel would not have invested in MindLab's earlier financing rounds because what the company did was "not a pattern we recognized as successful in the U.S." 
But Monashees Capital helped convince them that the company had value. Accel is now focused on finding more such companies here.
Chinese Internet companies are also showing interest. Mr. Brody of Redpoint, who has invested heavily in China, said he expected strategic partnerships involving Chinese firms this year to bolster Brazilian start-ups. 
China's Internet sector itself experienced overhype more than a decade ago, but that was later followed by exits and hefty returns to investors; that could be a pattern duplicated in Brazil. 
The prevailing mood, although less euphoric, may actually help bring on more sensible growth in Brazil, investors say.
Mr. Efrusy, who is living temporarily in Rio de Janeiro, said that he was seeing "less flooding by M.B.A.'s and consultants from all over the world," a move that is affording
entrepreneurs here "a more serious and authentic community."

        
Brazil Steps Up Investments in Overlooked Tech Start-Ups
        
Brazil's Start-Up Baby Boom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); STARTUPS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); FOOTWEAR (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INFLATION (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Accel Partners; Brazil; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Investments; Redpoint Ventures; Start-ups; Venture Capital; Technology

COMPANY: REDPOINT VENTURES (72%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Accel Partners; Redpoint Ventures

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (72%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (74%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



692 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: African-Americans See Debt Reduction as Top Priority

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: African-Americans have higher levels of debt, including student loan debt, a survey finds. 

 BODY:
Paying down debt is the top financial priority for African-Americans, who have higher levels of debt - particularly, student loan debt - than the general population, a biennial survey from Prudential Financial finds. 
While educational debt generally is becoming a cause for concern, it's an issue of particular concern among African-Americans. College-educated African-Americans are twice as likely to have student loan debt, compared with all college-educated Americans, the survey found. While the student debt is a sign of economic progress, it also hampers the ability to invest or save for retirement. 
Prudential's African-American Financial Experience survey was conducted by Gfk Public Affairs and Communications, from March 7 to 19, using a probability-based Internet panel. The survey included 1,153 African-Americans 25 to 70 years old, with household income of at least $25,000, who have primary or shared responsibility for household financial decisions. The margin of sampling error for African-Americans was plus or minus 5 percent.
The survey found that debt plays a major role in the financial lives of African-Americans, who are significantly more likely to have some type of debt (94 percent) compared to the general population (82 percent).
Credit card debt, student loan debt, and personal debt are all significantly higher in the African-American community. Debt is a major issue even for more affluent African-Americans, the survey found.
African-Americans have a median household debt of $18,000, not including home mortgages, which is about 50 percent higher than the household debt for the general population.
One in four African-Americans has felt anxiety or depression as a result of debt, the survey found.
When asked how they would use an extra 10 percent of income, almost half (48 percent) of African-Americans indicated their top priority would be paying down debt - a higher percentage than the general population.
The survey is one of a series of reports from Prudential examining financial trends in multicultural communities.
If you are African-American, please share your thoughts about debt - particularly student loan debt - in the comments section.

        
A Call to Refinance Private Student Loans
        
A Film to Help Students Face Their Debt
        
Budget Would Eliminate Taxes on Forgiven Student Debt
        
Rates on Some Student Loans Again Set to Double
        
Sallie Mae Lowers Top Loan Rates for Graduate Students

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); STUDENT LOANS (95%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (95%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%) Blacks; Credit and Debt; Prudential Financial Inc; Student Loans; United States; Prudential Financial Inc|PRU|NYSE

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (58%); SLM CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Financial Inc

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (58%); SLM (NASDAQ) (51%) Prudential Financial Inc; PRU; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



693 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Irregularities Suspected at Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange

BYLINE: NEIL GOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: The Hong Kong securities regulator announced on Tuesday that it had discovered possible financial irregularities at the just-shuttered Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange and said it referred the matter over to the police for investigation. 

 BODY:
 4:01 p.m. | Updated 
The Hong Kong securities regulator announced on Tuesday that it had discovered possible financial irregularities at the Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange and said it referred the matter over to the police for investigation.
The exchange ceased business over the weekend and has since wound down all open trading positions. The suspected irregularities were "serious ones,'' Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission said in a statement. 
Barry Cheung, the chairman and controlling shareholder of the mercantile exchange, took an abrupt leave of absence Tuesday night from all public service positions, according to a statement issued by the office of the head of the Hong Kong government, Leung Chun-ying. 
Mr. Cheung also serves as an unofficial member of Mr. Leung's cabinet and heads the government's neighborhood redevelopment agency, the Urban Renewal Authority. He also ran Mr. Leung's election campaign last year. 
In the corporate world, Mr. Cheung is a director of the AIA Group, formerly a unit of the American International Group, and is also on the board of Rusal, the aluminum company controlled by the Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska. Both those companies are listed in Hong Kong. 
The Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange, or HKMEx, opened for business two years ago and aimed to be a global platform for investors seeking to tap into China's tremendous demand for commodities. The exchange, which is privately held, boasted an influential group of minority shareholders, which included Mr. Deripaska's Eni+, a unit of the Chinese shipping company Cosco Group and a unit of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the world's biggest bank by market value.
But trading volumes on the HKMEx never came close to rivaling more established peers like the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the IntercontinentalExchange or the London Metal Exchange. Only two products ever traded in Hong Kong - a gold futures and a silver futures contract, both denominated in United States dollars. 
 A local stock exchange operator, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, completed its $2.2 billion acquisition of the London Metals Exchange in December. 
Mr. Cheung has not been accused of any wrongdoing. In a statement, he said: "As HKMEx is now under police investigation, I cannont make any comments at this stage aside from that I personally and HKMEx are cooperating fully in the investigation. I feel that it is inappropriate for me to continue my public duties during the investigation."
In his statement on Tuesday, Mr. Leung, the head of the local government, said: ''I am confident the regulatory and law enforcement bodies will act impartially without fear or favor."
The police in Hong Kong said in a statement that they had arrested a 55-year-old man on charges of ''using a false instrument'' involving a commodities trading company. The man was not formally charged, but was detained overnight for questioning. Further details were not available.
The Securities and Futures Commission said it began investigating financial irregularities last Wednesday, but waited until Tuesday to make its announcement: "For obvious reasons, it was not appropriate to disclose these matters to HKMEx or to the public pending further steps in the investigation," the regulator said in its statement. 
A previous version of this post misidentified the former corporate parent of the AIA Group. It is the American International Group, not the American Insurance Group. 

        
One Year After MF Global, New Protections for Customer Money
        
Scrutiny Falls on a Pioneer at JPMorgan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); FUTURES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DEREGULATION (69%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%) Commodities; Futures and Options Trading; Hong Kong; Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange; Leung Chun-ying; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); CME GROUP INC (58%); UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (55%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ASSURANCE CO LTD (55%); CHINA OCEAN SHIPPING (GROUP) CO (54%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (53%); HONG KONG EXCHANGES & CLEARING LTD (52%)

TICKER: 1398 (HKSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); CME (NASDAQ) (58%); RUSAL (PAR) (55%); 0486 (HKSE) (55%); 1299 (HKSE) (55%); ICE (NYSE) (53%); 0388 (HKSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (54%)

PERSON: OLEG DERIPASKA (55%) Leung Chun-ying

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (71%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



694 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2126 words

HEADLINE: Pathways to America: Teaching About Immigration Changes

BYLINE: TOM MARSHALL


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students examine the myriad issues surrounding immigration reform, including border security, the economic impact of foreign-born workers, and paths to citizenship for those who have entered illegally. 

 BODY:
 Overview | After years of debate and false starts, the United States Senate and House of Representatives stand on the verge of a comprehensive overhaul of America's immigration laws. But are legislators taking the right approach? 
In this lesson, students examine the myriad issues surrounding an immigration overhaul, including border security, the economic impact of foreign-born workers, and paths to citizenship for those who have entered illegally. In extension activities, they can explore the history of immigration, consider the personal stories of immigrants and try their hand at crafting a compromise or competing bill that emphasizes their own priorities.

 Materials | Computer with Internet connection and a projector to display articles and multimedia; computers with Internet connection for individual students or groups to use online resources, or copies of stories and primary documents as needed.
 Warm-Up | Explain to students that the class is going to take a closer look at proposed changes to America's immigration laws. But before starting, ask for a show of hands: How many of have either immigrated to this country or know someone of who did?
Then ask students to open their notebooks to a new page and title it "Immigration perceptions." Explain: 
 Let's take a moment to explore the perceptions or ideas that people have about immigration in this country. I'm going to read you a series of terms. After you hear each one, take a moment to quietly write down the first adjectives that come to mind - words that a typical person might use to describe that term. It's O.K. to give your honest opinion, but please remember to be respectful in the language that you use. 
Share the following terms, providing a pause of one or two minutes between each one to allow students to record their thoughts: "immigrant," "illegal immigrant," "business owner" and "citizen." Then ask students to offer a few examples from each category while you record their words on the board.
Ask: Do some of these terms elicit more positive or negative responses than others, and do you think that's fair? Do you believe these sorts of responses reflect reality, or are they stereotypes that might be misleading in some cases?
 Related | Legal and illegal immigration have transformed the town of Port Chester, N.Y., writes New York Times reporter Nelson D. Schwartz. And some of those immigrants are helping the town to thrive. Moises, who arrived penniless from Mexico 20 years ago, owns two restaurants and employs five people.
What Moises does not have is American citizenship, or even a green card permitting him to reside legally in the United States. So he inhabits an economic netherworld, shuttling among his establishments on the bus and train because he cannot get a driver's license and making do without bank loans or credit cards even as he files for zoning permits and incorporation papers.
While the estimated 11 million immigrants here illegally are often portrayed as dishwashers, farmhands, gardeners and other low-paid service workers, increasingly they are also business owners and employers. That is one reason economists say opening the door to entrepreneurs like Moises - whose last name is being withheld because of the risk of deportation - could give the American economy a shot in the arm. 
 Background Vocabulary: Read the entire article with your class, then answer the questions below. You may wish to introduce students to the following words or concepts before reading: netherworld, zoning permit, incorporation papers, entrepreneur, deportation, bipartisan, visa, provisional, amnesty and entitlements.
 Questions | For reading comprehension and discussion:

        
Why do officials in Port Chester describe Hispanic immigrants as the "lifeblood" of the town, and how has the town changed since the 1980s? 
        
How would a proposed Senate immigration bill affect people like Moises who entered the United States illegally and are now trying to run businesses or earn a living?
        
What sorts of problems has immigration brought to the town of Port Chester?
        
Do immigrants have a positive or negative effect on jobs and the economy, according to economists cited in this story?
        
On balance, does this story paint a positive or negative picture of immigration?
(Note: For further discussion, students can work individually or in small groups to explore the moderated reader comments below this story. Teachers can direct them to the "NYT Picks" and "Reader Picks" tabs and ask students to find and share a reader comment that adds a new or useful perspective to the story.)
 Activity: Understanding Immigration Changes | In this activity, students will divide into groups to research and present various aspects of the immigration bills currently being discussed in the Senate and House of Representatives. Then they'll vote on whether to support those proposals or develop their own competing bill.
 Part I: Researching the Issues 
Assign one group to research each of the following questions. Students can read the stories linked below the questions or look for additional stories in The Times's archives, listing key facts and arguments to answer their question.
 1. Will an immigration overhaul only succeed if it tackles all problems or issues at once? 

        
"Besides a Path to Citizenship, a New Path on Immigration"
        
"Bipartisan House Group Reaches Preliminary Immigration Deal"
 2. Is an immigration overhaul more likely to succeed if it focuses on one or two simple issues? 

        
"Room for Debate: Understanding Immigration Reform"
        
"Perfection Is the Enemy of Reform"
 3. Should an immigration overhaul solve the question of border security and safety before tackling other issues? Or is the border safe enough for Congress to move forward on other immigration changes? 

        
"Immigration Officials Say Safeguards Were Added"
        
"Arizona Desert Swallows Migrants on Riskier Paths"
 4. Should America improve its "guest worker" visa programs to help American farms and businesses get the workers they need? 

        
"Fate of the Immigration Bill May Hinge on Farm Districts"
        
"Workers Claim Racial Bias as Farms Rely on Immigrants"
        
"Tech Industry Pushes to Amend Immigration Bill"
 5. Should American-born workers come first, with any immigration bill being designed to protect the jobs and interests of American workers? Or should an immigration overhaul focus on helping the United States economy by targeting skilled workers that the country needs to become more productive?

        
"Room for Debate: The Economics of Immigration"
        
"Sessions Says Immigration Bill Is a Threat to Workers"
 6. Is it fair to offer a path to citizenship for people who entered the country illegally? And can America offer a path for those who deserve it without spending too much money or encouraging thousands of other people to try entering illegally?

        
"Conservatives See a Turning Tide on Immigration"
        
"Rubio Disputes Report on Immigration Bill Costs"
        
"Immigration Plan Sets 2011 Cutoff for Path to Legalization"
 Part II: Choosing Preferences 
Once students have researched their questions, each group should write a list of recommendations or proposals for inclusion in a new immigration bill. Their recommendations may be general or very specific, but each proposal must be backed up by facts from their research. They should also be prepared with facts to respond to any potential criticisms or competing proposals.
 Part III: Deciding on a Bill 
We suggest two possible ways to create a class immigration bill:
 1. "Jigsaw" Committees: Students can form new legislative committees, making sure that the committees have at least one member from each of the various research groups. Then in this "jigsaw" formation, the committees will try to design an immigration bill. Students will share their list of recommendations or proposals they came up with in their research groups, and as a committee they will try to hammer out a new bill.
Then, the different committees can present their individual bills to the class. If you want, students can then try to reach a consensus on one final bill. See the next option for additional ideas on how to conduct a whole class vote and discussion. 
 2. Whole Class Congress: Ask each research group to present their recommendations to the class, recording them briefly on the board as you go. After each group has presented, hold a simple majority vote on each specific recommendation, putting a star next to items that have been approved by the class.
After the first round of voting, teachers may elect to hold a round of student questions and rebuttals. Any item may be revoted for inclusion if a simple majority agrees to do so. Students may also wish to introduce amendments or write an entirely different immigration bill. At the conclusion of the activity, all bills will be subject to a vote; those gaining a simple majority will be adopted.
 Going Further | Below are four more ideas for studying immigration in greater depth:
 1. Track the bills in Congress. 
Follow the daily reporting of Julia Preston, a national correspondent covering immigration for The Times; the Washington-based reporter Ashley Parker; amendments made to the original bills; lobbying efforts by foreign countries like South Korea; and other stories filed under the topic of immigration. Keep a daily diary or blog, noting major changes and compromises as the House and Senate bills make progress. Then write a personal essay on what you learned about the political process by following the immigration bills. 
 2. Read immigrants' stories. 
Read or view the following personal accounts of immigration:

        
"Money, Class and College"
        
"A Young Immigrant Struggles for a College Education"
        
"My Life as an Undocumented Immigrant"
Then write your own personal account of immigration or migration - the story of how you or your ancestors traveled to (or moved around within) your country, how you feel about it and how it affects your own life goals. It's O.K. to voice questions if you don't know parts of your family's story, but you may also wish to interview family members or do some genealogical research in order to find out more. 
 3. Comparing immigrant experiences in history. 
Read the following stories about recent immigrants:

        
"A Family Reunited After a Rare Return from Deportation"
        
"Helping Immigrants Warm to Winter"
        
"The Migrant Cash Line"
        
"Immigration Stories, From Shadows to Spotlight"
Then do historical research on immigrants from the 19th and early 20th centuries. What are some of the similarities and differences in immigration from each era? Write a research-based essay in which you compare the stories of two immigrants to the United States, one from recent years and one from previous centuries. In your conclusion, draw some lessons for the reader on what these stories tell us about changes in broader American society.
 4. What'd He Say? Read the story "Do They Really Tawk Like That?" about accents in New York City. Then watch a clip from a new documentary on the same topic, "If These Knishes Could Talk." What can accents tell us about immigration in America? Interview your classmates using videotape or an audio recorder to see if they think they or their friends have accents, and ask them whether they'd prefer to live in a world where everyone spoke in the same way. Tabulate the results and put together your own documentary on accents in your hometown. 
Common Core ELA Anchor Standards, 6-12
 Reading 
1. Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make logical inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when writing or speaking to support conclusions drawn from the text.
2. Determine central ideas or themes of a text and analyze their development; summarize the key supporting details and ideas.
8. Delineate and evaluate the argument and specific claims in a text, including the validity of the reasoning as well as the relevance and sufficiency of the evidence.
 Writing 
1. Write arguments to support claims in an analysis of substantive topics or texts, using valid reasoning and relevant and sufficient evidence.
2. Write informative/explanatory texts to examine and convey complex ideas and information clearly and accurately through the effective selection, organization and analysis of content.
8. Gather relevant information from multiple print and digital sources, assess the credibility and accuracy of each source, and integrate the information while avoiding plagiarism.
 Speaking and Listening 
1. Prepare for and participate effectively in a range of conversations and collaborations with diverse partners, building on others' ideas and expressing their own clearly and persuasively.

        
In Legal Limbo
        
A New Policy for Illegal Immigrants
        
What Are Your Family Stories of Sacrifice?
        
Oct. 28, 1886 | Statue of Liberty Is Unveiled
        
Of Coyotes, Crossings and Cellphones

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); IMMIGRATION LAW (94%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); POLITICS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); HISTORY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (75%); RESTAURANTS (60%) immigrants; immigration; Immigration and Emigration (Des);; American Government; American History; Civics; Culture and Identity; Economics; Federal Government; Geography; Global Economics; Globalization; Individual Rights; Lesson Plans; Politics and Policy; Race in America; Social Studies; The House and Senate; U.S. Constitution; U.S. Economy; World Cultures and Traditions

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



695 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: On Suicide, Does Density Disprove Durkheim?

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Do state-by-state suicide numbers prove that communal ties don&#8217;t influence suicide rates? 

 BODY:
Responding to my Sunday column, Nate Cohn of the New Republic dismisses the idea that there's any link between the recent rise in middle-aged suicide rates and the attenuation of various forms of social and economic belonging - from marriage to churchgoing to stable employment. Rather, he argues, the only definite driver of suicide rates seems to be population density:
Contrary to what Douthat might expect, there's no correlation-zero-between a states' suicide rate and religion, marriage rates, or single occupancy homes. State economic growth or unemployment don't line up, either. Economically struggling states like Michigan and Indiana, for instance, had suicide rates near the national average, while booming North Dakota was well above. Depression would seem to be a precursor to suicide, but depression, which is highest in the Deep South and Appalachia and low in the inland West, doesn't correlate with suicide, either. Is it possible that there's something about the inland West that makes depressed people more likely to commit suicide? That's what the data suggests. 
If anything correlates with suicide rates, it's a states' population density: In populous areas, suicide rates are low; in the sparsely populated hinterlands, suicide rates are high. Perhaps depression and loneliness is particularly harsh in desolate areas, and maybe it's easier to cope in a major city like D.C. or New York. A more intriguing possibility is gun ownership, which, like suicide rates, is highest in the West and lowest in the Northeast ... Then again, the South has high levels of gun ownership and higher levels of depression than the inland West, but suicide is rarer in Alabama than Montana.
These are important points, but I don't think they prove as much as Cohn suggests. A strong link between population density and suicide hardly demonstrates that social belonging doesn't play a role in suicide rates: It just suggests that the literal physical component in loneliness can matter as much or more than emotional and institutional ties. And the geographic pattern Cohn describes is perfectly compatible with other factors - from unemployment to divorce to, yes, gun policy- playing a role in national trends. There are plenty of cases where longstanding patterns don't suffice to explain emerging trends that cut across regions and demographic groups: The fact that crime rates are generally higher in cities doesn't mean that "population density" suffices as an explanation of changes in the crime rate, for instance, and the fact that out-of-wedlock birth rates are higher among African-Americans than whites doesn't mean that "race" suffices as an explanation for the post-1960s rise in unwed childbearing. In this case, similarly, the fact that there are big rural-urban differences in suicide rates doesn't mean that rural-urban differences suffice as an explanation for why those rates have risen for the middle-aged across every U.S. region since 1999 - unless Cohn is arguing that the entire country has grown more rural and agrarian since the turn of the millennium, which I'm pretty sure it hasn't.
To clarify this point a little more, think about the question of depression. It's a fascinating and important point that the states with the highest rates of depression don't also have the highest suicide rates - and it suggests, just as Cohn says, that there may be something about certain kinds of physical isolation that's crucial to understanding the paths that people take to taking their own lives. But this doesn't mean one can infer (as Cohn almost seems to) that there is therefore no connection at all between depression and suicide, or that an overall decrease in the incidence and severity of depression nationally wouldn't cause suicide rates to fall across the board. (Better diagnosis and treatment of depression almost certainly did help push suicide rates downward in the 1980s and 1990s, for rural and urban America alike.) Instead, it can both be true that population density matters immensely to suicide rates and true that depressed people are more at risk of suicide on average regardless of where they live - that it may be better to be depressed in Alabama than in Montana, but it's also better not to be depressed at all.
Likewise with unemployment, marriage, religion. The contemporary evidence for the Emile Durkheim thesis on suicide and social connection - the studies linking higher suicide rates (especially for men) to joblessness, to divorce, and to weak religious attachment, and linking lower suicide rates with reversals in some of those trends - can certainly be questioned in various ways. (There's vigorous debate over whether unemployment leads to mental distress or whether mental illness causes unemployment, for instance, and the same correlation-causation issue obtains with the other social factors.) But the mere existence of a big density-driven divide does not justify setting this evidence aside, or suffice to make the anti-Durkheim case. Just because you've identified a powerful, persuasive pattern doesn't mean that other important patterns don't exist.

        
Culture, Class and the Decline of Marriage
        
The Republican Health Policy Trainwreck
        
Immigration Reform and the Lessons of 2012
        
Marriage and Historical Inevitability
        
The Deficit Reduction We Deserve

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (96%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DEATHS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FIREARMS (69%); GUN CONTROL (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%) Depression (Mental); Marriages; New Republic; Recession and Depression; Religion and Belief; Rural Areas; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; United States; Western States (US)

ORGANIZATION: New Republic

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; Western States (US)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



696 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Perma-Stimulus, Again

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Been there, covered that. 

 BODY:
Jonathan Chait tells me that the new anti-Keynesian paladin is James Buchanan, who supposedly showed that stimulus, however worthy, can never be reversed. The elevation of Buchanan comes from Charles Lane at the Washington Post, who name-checks me as one of those naive Keynesians who doesn't get it (and misuses the "in the long run we are all dead" line to boot). 
But wait: haven't I dealt with this claim before? Why, yes - in a column published in the Times just two weeks ago, which was largely devoted to this very issue:
But there is, I believe, a further obstacle to change: widespread, deep-seated cynicism about the ability of democratic governments, once engaged in stimulus, to change course in the future.
So now seems like a good time to point out that this cynicism, which sounds realistic and worldly-wise, is actually sheer fantasy. Ending stimulus has never been a problem - in fact, the historical record shows that it almost always ends too soon. And in America, at least, we have a pretty good record for behaving in a fiscally responsible fashion, with one exception - namely, the fiscal irresponsibility that prevails when, and only when, hard-line conservatives are in power.
...
Incidentally, foreign experience follows the same pattern. You often hear Japan described as a country that has pursued never-ending fiscal stimulus. In reality, it has engaged in stop-go policies, increasing spending when the economy is weak, then pulling back at the first sign of recovery (and thereby pushing itself back into recession).
So the whole notion of perma-stimulus is fantasy posing as hardheaded realism. 
This argument is then backed by various pieces of evidence.
So I answered this latest anti-Keynesian claim before it was even made. Oh, and I was under the impression that if you're going to characterize a named writer's views, and in particular to make claims about what that writer doesn't get, you might want to read a few things said writer has written - say, his last two columns. But I guess I don't fully understand the rules here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); RECESSION (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); EVIDENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013



697 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Economic Roots of Apple's Taxable Product

BYLINE: VICTOR FLEISCHER


HIGHLIGHT: In theory, our tax system tries to trace the value of a product to its economic roots. For Apple&#8217;s design and marketing, the roots are in the United States, the author writes. 

 BODY:
The hearing by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations on Tuesday focused on Apple's shifting of offshore profits. Apple's tax planning stems from an almost metaphysical issue: What is the value of an iPhone? 
What precisely is the value of Apple's products? Where is that value created? Why do we fritter away so much time on Apple's devices, and why are we willing to pay a premium for the privilege? 
In theory, our tax system tries to trace the value of a product to its economic roots. It is as if each cog in the supply chain, even within the same firm, were a separate economic actor. 
But figuring out how to divide the pie among the different subsidiaries and branches of a consolidated multinational company is not easy.
In trying to deduce the value of Apple's products, one obvious place to start is the quality of the research and development. Apple products usually work pretty well. Certainly, my tech-savvy colleagues rave about how they believe their Android and Windows phones are superior in technology to Apple products. 
For me, form, not function, matters most. Design is what sets Apple apart. Apple has always cared about the user experience. Apple helps you get music in your ears, pictures on the Web, words on the page. Writing is never easy, but on a Mac, it is less horrid. 
And I feel sheepish for admitting it, but savvy marketing campaigns have likely seeded my enthusiasm for Apple products. 
These intangibles - design and marketing - best explain Apple's success in a global market. The phone on my desk may have been expertly manufactured and assembled in China, but that was by Foxconn, not Apple. The core value comes mostly from the inputs of engineers and developers in Cupertino, Calif.
If Apple creates economic value in the United States, you might expect that value to be taxed here. Not so. For tax purposes, Apple's approach is to harvest the profits in a low-tax jurisdiction. 
In 2011, Apple paid about $3.9 billion to the United States Treasury on pretax profits of about $34 billion - a real federal tax rate of about 12 percent. 
Why so little? Ireland serves as a legal hub for Apple's overseas operations, and, through a "cost-sharing" contract, the Irish subsidiaries peel off a chunk of the costs associated with designing and marketing Apple's products. 
The problem, then, is the disparity between the value of a product for economic purposes and the value of a product for tax purposes. Economic intuition tells us that the source of Apple's income is in the United States, but the legal answer is less clear. Apple's "cost-sharing" agreements can be traced back to 1980; determining the source of the value of a product is not a new problem.
Nor is it an unusual problem. Apple's approach is the industry standard.
And it is an increasingly important problem. Apple's ability to compete, based on engineering, design, and marketing, is the model for American technology companies in an era of globalization. 
And, finally, we know why Congress hasn't done anything to work itself out of this jam. In written testimony to the subcommittee, Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook wrote: 
As an American multinational company, Apple is proud of its efforts to create American jobs. Its cost sharing arrangement enables the Company to use revenues earned overseas to fund R&D in the US. Some commentators have urged eliminating these types of cost sharing agreements, but doing so would harm American workers and the broader US economy. If cost sharing agreements were no longer available, many US multinational companies would likely move high-paying American R&D jobs overseas.
The threat is not subtle: If you try to lead us down the garden path of fixing tax loopholes, we'll move research and engineering jobs overseas.

        
Pleased by Apple's Move, Einhorn Raises His Bet
        
British Activists Press Tax Case Involving Goldman Sachs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX PLANNING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); WRITERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%) Apple Inc; Corporate Taxes; Ireland; Tax Shelters; Apple Inc|AAPL|NASDAQ; Legal/Regulatory; Standard Deduction; Technology

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%) Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (91%); CHINA (79%) Ireland

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



698 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Rail)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2013

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Exploring the Business of Horse Breeding on 'Real Sports'

BYLINE: MELISSA HOPPERT


HIGHLIGHT: A segment on horse breeding called &#8220;Out to Stud&#8221; will be part of the 194th edition of &#8220;Real Sports With Bryant Gumbel,&#8221; which debuts Tuesday at 10 p.m. Eastern on HBO. 

 BODY:
A segment on horse breeding called "Behind the Barn Door" will be part of the 194th edition of "Real Sports With Bryant Gumbel," which debuts Tuesday at 10 p.m. Eastern on HBO. 
The episode takes a look at the breeding career of the prized stallion Storm Cat, who was euthanized at age 30 on April 24 at Overbrook Farm in Lexington, Ky. Storm Cat, a descendant of the Triple Crown winner Secretariat, once was the most sought-after thoroughbred sire in horse racing, with his offspring earning more than $100 million on the racetrack. 
Storm Cat, commanding a stud fee of $500,000 a session, brought his owners millions of dollars from eager breeders. But in the late 2000s, the recession hit the thoroughbred breeding industry, resulting in lower stud fees. 
After Storm Cat retired, Bernard Goldberg reports, attention turned to the superstar mare Zenyatta, who became the first female to win the Breeder's Cup Classic in 2009. Unlike Storm Cat, Zenyatta, who is at Lane's End Farm in Versailles, Ky., does not get paid to reproduce, but her offspring are among the most talked-about in the industry. 
The Times recently reported that her partner in the race for the creation of a potential superhorse, Rachel Alexandra, is at Stonestreet Farm in Lexington recovering from complications after delivering a 140-pound filly by Bernardini. 
Rachel is considered a foundation mare for Stonestreet, one who could potentially pass on her ability to several generations, but it is uncertain if she will be able to carry again. Her bloodlines can still be passed on, however, especially because her filly is expected to eventually join the farm's broodmare band. 
The "Real Sports" episode will be aired periodically on HBO and HBO2 until June 8 and will be available on On Demand from Monday until June 17. It will also be available on HBO Go.

        
In Zenyatta's Transition, a Life Lesson
        
With Orb, It's Still Wait and See
        
Century-Old Racing Columns Still Quicken the Pulse
        
Orb Looking Good, but Belmont Status Still in Question
        
Video: Horse Racing's Good Guys

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (93%); HORSE RACING (91%); HORSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); RECESSION (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Breeding of Animals; Home Box Office; Horse Racing; Rachel Alexandra (Race Horse); Storm Cat; Zenyatta (Race Horse)

ORGANIZATION: Home Box Office

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (93%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013



699 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Bruce S. Fowle

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Fowle, 75, is the founding principal of FXFowle Architects. The firm, which was started in New York as Fox & Fowle Architects in 1978, has designed many projects throughout the city, including Three and Four Times Square and The New York Times Building. Mr. Fowle is working on the expansion and renovation of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q. Next week you turn 76. Any thoughts of retiring?
A. Well, I'm definitely trying to slow down. I'd like to get into semiretirement. I don't plan to quit. I used to put in probably 60 hours a week, and now I'm down to between 40 and 50, so it's getting somewhat reasonable.
Q. What's your main role at the firm these days?
A. As founder, I have over the years set the tone, the character, the culture of the firm. And at this point, having many partners who are extremely talented and competent in their own right, my main role is to make sure that culture is kept in line and supported in any way that I can, particularly in the sustainable side.
I am still designing and managing projects, but I am no longer running the firm and setting the goals. We have seven partners who are each doing their part in moving the firm forward.
Q. How is business?
A. It's good. It's slow, it's cautious, but it's definitely improved. We've taken on a lot of staff again.
Q. How many projects is FXFowle working on right now?
A. I can't even quantify it. They're all sizes and shapes -- from interior renovations to 66-story commercial buildings and cultural institutions.
Well, major projects, there are probably 20 major projects.
Q. One of the firm's major projects is Alchemy Properties' new condominium, 35XV on West 15th Street.
A. That's coming along well. I'm not the partner in charge of that, so I won't pretend to know all of the ins and outs.
Q. But you are working closely on the Javits Convention Center renovations. What's happening there?
A. My main project right now is the Javits Center rehabilitation, which has been going on for over six years. We're almost complete with the first phase of the project, which concludes the funding that was available.
We have almost a seven-acre green roof well under way. It's going to be the most durable plant material, which is basically sedum. Now that the zoning has been changed around the Javits Center, there will be many very tall buildings. The roof of the Javits Center is like a fifth facade. We want to make sure it's aesthetically pleasing and environmentally responsible.
So we replaced the entire facade. It's a much more transparent, personable, engagable building because you could see into it. It's lighter, and the inside has now been freshened up, lightened up. It's still in progress. It's going to be equivalent of a LEED silver rating.
Q. Will LEED certification be sought?
A. Yes. We're debating whether to go for it now or when everything is completed.
Q. What else is planned at the center?
A. The mechanical equipment is being replaced. Eventually we'll be able to put an addition on it and bring it up to the size and scale that it really wants to be. Right now it's deficient by national standards. So it only attracts certain types of trade shows, as opposed to the association shows.
This first phase should be finished by the end of this year. When the funding is available, the second phase will include upgrades of the site work, the paved area in front of the building. More of the electronic infrastructure of the building will be brought up to current industry standards, and, of course, the addition would be nice to have as part of that next phase.
Q. Sustainability has always been very important to you.
A. Climate change is the most serious issue facing architects today. Buildings account for 37 percent of all greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and in New York City, it is 75 percent. We know that we can make buildings at least 50 to 60 percent more efficient than they are now -- and that's by everything from the type of lighting fixtures, the efficiency of the mechanical equipment to alternative energy wherever it's possible. It's not the easiest thing to do in dense environments like New York, but we have to continue to push for this. There are a lot of trends that are working against us, such as the use of more and more glass.
Q. How much of the firm's work is in the New York area?
A. It's about 50 percent. About a third of our work is overseas: China, India, Turkey, Saudi Arabia.
Q. Any other projects you can talk about?
A. We have a high-rise building on the West Side right next to the Hudson Yards project -- 3 Hudson Boulevard, a 66-story office building. It's the Moinian building. It's gone in a series of phases because it was tied to the No. 7 subway. We had done a lot of work initially to get the foundation work in place so that the No. 7 could be coordinated with that.
We're also doing a number of residential projects.
Q. Leasing at 11 Times Square has been painfully slow. How does that make you feel as the building's architect?
A. It's a difficult time, and it's probably also a combination of location -- being on Eighth Avenue. It's certainly a wonderful building. It's a green building and there's no real logical reason for it to not have filled up.
Any time a building we design struggles economically it's not fun. We don't like to see anybody get hurt, and I think ultimately it will be fine, but it's definitely been slow going.
Q. Were you always interested in architecture?
A. Since I was in high school. I liked building sand castles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



700 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Asia Society's New Leader

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Josette Sheeran, the vice chairwoman of the World Economic Forum, will be the new president and chief executive of Asia Society, the organization said Tuesday. 
Ms. Sheeran will take over on June 10, replacing Vishakha N. Desai.
At the World Economic Forum, which holds the annual Davos and Davos in China gatherings of political and financial leaders, Ms. Sheeran has helped advance programs like Grow Africa, which has attracted $4 billion in investment to end hunger and malnutrition in Africa. This spring she served at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government as a Fisher Fellow in the future of diplomacy.
Before joining the World Economic Forum, Ms. Sheeran was executive director of the United Nations World Food Program, leading a team of 13,000 people in more than 70 countries, and managing an annual budget of more than $3 billion, including $1 billion in Asia. Her ''Ted Talk'' on ending world hunger has been viewed more than 1,000,000 times.
Founded in 1956 by John D. Rockefeller 3rd, Asia Society is a nonpartisan, nonprofit institution ''dedicated to promoting mutual understanding and strengthening partnerships among peoples, leaders and institutions of Asia and the United States'' in the arts, business, education and policy. It has its headquarters in New York, with centers in Hong Kong and Houston and offices in Los Angeles; Manila; Mumbai, India; San Francisco; Seoul, South Korea; Shanghai; Sydney, Australia; and Washington.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MALNUTRITION (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (93%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (54%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (66%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (66%); MUMBAI, INDIA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) AFRICA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



701 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, a Fed President Urges Quantitative Easing

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- A top official of the Federal Reserve on Tuesday urged the European Central Bank to take more aggressive action to restart growth, warning that the euro area risked becoming mired in the same kind of economic stagnation that has plagued Japan for two decades, with far-reaching implications for the global economy.
James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and a voting member of the Fed's policy-setting open markets committee, said Europe's central bank should consider quantitative easing similar to that undertaken by the Fed -- large bond purchases meant to drive down market interest rates. 
The public comments were highly unusual. While central bankers from different countries frequently confer in private and offer advice and criticism to their peers behind closed doors, it is rare for any official to go public with even the mildest criticism of another central bank.
But with official interest rates in almost every advanced economy already close to zero, Mr. Bullard said, central bankers must reach for stronger tools to avoid getting trapped in economic doldrums.
''The lesson of Japan is that once you get stuck, it's very hard to get out,'' Mr. Bullard told an audience at Goethe University in Frankfurt. ''One way to get stuck would be not to take aggressive action.''
Mr. Bullard sent a message to Wall Street not to expect the Fed to begin rolling back its own quantitative easing program soon, saying that there was no sign of inflation risk, and that even if there were, the central bank could deal with it.
''We just haven't seen it so far,'' Mr. Bullard said of inflation. And when it starts to appear, he added, ''we know how to fight that problem -- we can raise rates.''
Mr. Bullard spoke ahead of meetings in Frankfurt with some of his European counterparts, including Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank. Mr. Bullard said he was speaking for himself and not the Fed or any other members of its policy committee.
Still, his remarks represented one of the strongest public statements yet from a Washington policy maker in response to increasing concern that European leaders were reacting too timidly to a spreading recession.
A sluggish European economy has global implications, Mr. Bullard said. ''You have to be concerned,'' he told the group. ''The European Union as a whole is the biggest economy in the world.''
A move by the European Central Bank to buy government bonds on a grand scale would certainly face harsh opposition from the Bundesbank, the conservative and influential German central bank that, while officially under the European Central Bank, wields outsize influence because of its historical role as defender of the German currency and as Europe's bastion of anti-inflation fervor.
The European Central Bank has given no signals that it is seriously considering quantitative easing.
There are also practical hurdles to emulating Fed policy in Europe. There is no pan-European government bond similar to United States Treasuries. Mr. Bullard said the solution would be to buy bonds of all 17 governments in the euro zone in proportion to their size.
With the official euro zone interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, below the rate of inflation, the central bank has been groping for ways to stimulate the slumping European economy. Mr. Draghi has floated the idea of a negative deposit rate -- in effect charging banks to keep their reserves at the central bank as a way to prod them into lending more money to businesses and consumers.
Mr. Bullard said a negative deposit rate would be a ''dead-end policy.'' It would not have much effect and could be done only once, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); GERMAN MARK (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



702 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Strong Lobbying Helps Dimon Thwart a Shareholder Challenge

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
8:18 p.m. | Updated
Jamie Dimon and the 10 other directors of JPMorgan Chase had reason to be confident before they took private jets to Tampa on Monday, the eve of the bank's annual meeting. Early indications were that a shareholder vote to split Mr. Dimon's jobs as chairman and chief executive was heading to a resounding defeat.
There was just one problem: One director was not going to Florida.
Ellen V. Futter, a longtime member of the board's risk policy committee who had come under fire over her lack of a background in finance, had decided at the last minute not to attend the meeting. 
Ms. Futter, the president of the American Museum of Natural History, was sick of the swirl of negative attention surrounding her, worried that it needlessly detracted from JPMorgan's strengths and that it might hurt the reputation of the museum, people briefed on the matter said. She wanted off the board.
A resignation by a bank director would have distracted from what was shaping up to be a victory parade for Mr. Dimon. The charismatic chief executive called her on Monday to try to convince her to stay, although he acknowledged that it was a personal decision, the people briefed on the matter said. That discussion was followed by calls from at least two other directors, the people said. They urged Ms. Futter to remain on the board, adding that her resignation would drag her back into the spotlight.
In the end, Ms. Futter, who narrowly eked out re-election, changed her mind.
Mr. Dimon's art of persuasion was also in evidence on Tuesday as nearly 70 percent of the shares were voted to reject decisively a proposal for an independent chairman.
The shareholder vote had shaped up to be a rare challenge to Mr. Dimon, who was widely praised for piloting the bank through the turmoil of the financial crisis. Since the crisis, three years of consecutive quarterly profits at JPMorgan have added to his laurels.
Yet a surprising multibillion-dollar trading loss last year -- one that has helped drive top lieutenants from the bank and produced a range of investigations -- has raised questions about the chief executive's leadership.
The shareholder resolution, while intended to improve corporate governance by having an independent chairman as a counterweight to a chief executive, became a referendum on Mr. Dimon himself. It was a test he easily passed.
''To some extent this was a referendum on Jamie Dimon, and he is quite unique and special and no one can deny that,'' said Marvin Schwartz, a portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman, which controls roughly 12 million shares and voted against the resolution. ''To hold against him one unfortunate loss in the trading area, I think, is quite unfair.''
Even though some 40 percent of the shares last year had supported a similar proposal to split the top two jobs at the bank, this year's resolution was supported by only 32.2 percent of the shares. The divide in the vote was apparent, with institutional investors like Neuberger Berman voting overwhelmingly against the proposal and pension funds voting for it, according to people briefed on the matter.
In an e-mail to employees after the annual meeting, Mr. Dimon wrote: ''I love coming to work here every day -- and hope to be doing it for years to come.''
Shares of JPMorgan rose as much as 2.6 percent on Tuesday, before closing up 1.4 percent, at $53.02.
The hearty endorsement of the chief executive -- which was announced on his 30th wedding anniversary -- came after months of behind-the-scenes lobbying by the bank.
At its Park Avenue headquarters, JPMorgan assembled a war room where executives kept close tallies as shareholder votes began streaming in, according to two people briefed on the matter. To sway investors, these people said, influential board members were paired with large shareholders.
Part of the message was to remind shareholders that the directors were already a powerful check on Mr. Dimon, noting that board had earlier moved to root out problems in the aftermath of the losses and to claw back $100 million from the traders at the center of the outsized wagers.
The bank held conference calls with several big investors, including Neuberger Berman. Mr. Schwartz said that during that call, which lasted roughly 40 minutes, Neuberger portfolio managers had a ''frank give and take'' with JPMorgan executives.
Still, roughly two weeks before the shareholder meeting, the proposal sponsors were winning, according to people briefed on the tallies. The vote was going against Mr. Dimon.
On May 6, Lee R. Raymond, the lead director of the bank's board, and William C. Weldon, the chairman of the board's corporate governance and nominating committee, met with officials from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, one of the main backers of the proposal to divide the roles.
A close ally of Mr. Dimon even tried to enlist former President Bill Clinton to help broker a compromise with Afscme, according to two people with knowledge of the discussion. Mr. Clinton declined.
''I think that given the resources that the management and the board threw at this, it's not a surprise that the vote was lower than last year,'' said Lisa Lindsley, the director of capital strategies at Afscme.
The bank pulled other levers as well, some shareholders said.
''First we hear Jamie might leave if things go against him and then people start talking about the damage to the stock price,'' said one major shareholder, who asked not to be named because of a company policy against speaking to the media. ''It was effective.''
People close to the bank say a turning point in the campaign came from an unexpected source, an influential shareholder advisory firm, Institutional Shareholder Services, which urged shareholders earlier this month to withhold their votes from three directors on the board's policy committee.
In a scathing 33-page report, the firm faulted three directors, saying they lacked risk expertise. By zeroing in on the board members, several people close to the bank said, the advisory firm effectively gave shareholders an alternative. They could register their dissatisfaction with JPMorgan without going after Mr. Dimon, the people said.
Indeed, the preliminary vote totals for the three directors were effectively rebukes. Ms. Futter received just 53 percent of the voting shares, while the two other directors on the committee did only a little better: James S. Crown received about 57 percent of the vote; and David M. Cote received 59 percent. (In comparison, Mr. Dimon received 98 percent of the vote for his board seat, while Mr. Raymond, the lead director, received 95 percent.)
As a result of this sign of disapproval from shareholders, it is almost certain the board will make some changes. On Tuesday, Mr. Raymond told shareholders to ''stay tuned'' when he was asked if the board is planning to make changes to the risk committee. It is likely Ms. Futter will come off the risk committee, and the board may replace her or others with directors that have more knowledge of financial risk.
''The vote proved to be a referendum on the board's oversight of risk rather than over whether to split the chairman/C.E.O. job,'' said Michael Garland, an assistant comptroller who heads corporate governance for the New York City comptroller, John Liu, which co-sponsored the bill. ''I don't think this is a setback because it put a spotlight on the issue and the clock is now ticking on director reform.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A proposal to separate the jobs of chairman and chief executive of Chase became a referendum on Jamie Dimon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Stockholders arrived for the JPMorgan Chase annual meeting on Tuesday in Tampa, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); HISTORY (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); PARADES & MARCHES (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



703 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Chicago School Closings May Leave Some Communities Without Old Lifelines

BYLINE: By STEVEN YACCINO

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Long after the last school bell scatters children back across this city each day, Tzia Ford is more often than not still inside Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School.
Years ago, when her mother walked these same halls, a competitive cheerleading team kept young girls off the street after class was over. For Tzia, a third grader who is on the student council, afternoons at the neighborhood school on Chicago's West Side are a variety show of ballet and martial arts, hip-hop and cooking class, tutoring and fund-raisers. Five days a week, sometimes past nightfall.
''She will be at school all day if she can,'' said her mother, Shawanna Turner, 30, whose family has attended Bethune for generations. ''We know everybody in that school. I know the parents because I went to school with them.'' 
This fall, Tzia and her brother, Quinten, 5, may get to see Bethune only from the outside -- its doors locked and its classrooms emptied. Students would still gather there each morning, but only to wait for a bus to take them to another elementary school a mile away.
After months of protests, lawsuits and public hearings, the Chicago Board of Education is scheduled to vote Wednesday on whether to shutter 53 public schools, part of a building consolidation plan that would save the district more than $500 million over the next decade in capital costs and operating expenses.
The proposed closings, announced in March and targeting schools like Bethune that are considered underused after years of population decline, have pitted an array of community complexities against the economics of urban education in this, the third-largest school district in the country. If approved, they would constitute the largest closing of public school campuses at one time by a city in recent memory.
''We're paying for a 100,000 empty seats across the board,'' said Tom Tyrrell, a Chicago Public Schools official. ''It just doesn't make any sense to keep paying for thousands of empty seats when we have an opportunity to restructure and put some assets into communities that have typically been underserved.''
At first glance, Bethune seems an obvious candidate for closing. Nestled in the poverty-battered East Garfield Park neighborhood, the school has a low academic rating and serves 377 students in a building that officials say should hold 780 (though critics have called such estimates unrealistic).
A mile away, John Milton Gregory Elementary School is in top academic standing and has at least a half dozen unused classrooms fully equipped with desks and whiteboards.
The demographics of the two schools are almost identical. If the two schools combine, the district expects to save about $700,000 annually in operating costs, money officials say can be repurposed for better educational tools like new computer labs, a science lab, and tablet computers.
And yet, the possible move to Gregory has generated a visceral reaction from Bethune families, underscoring broader fears about school closings that officials have found difficult to ease. By uprooting elementary schools like Bethune, where around 98 percent of the students are black and from low-income homes, parents say officials are uprooting the personal and academic lifelines of Chicago's neediest communities.
''Bethune is a safe haven for me,'' said Alicia Jefferson, 40, whose 13-year old daughter, Leonshay, attends the school.
Ms. Jefferson said that teachers at Bethune had assisted her with personal problems, including drug-related issues. Last year, she added, she got help from the school when she spent a night searching the city for her daughter after she stayed out until morning, checking hospitals and police stations. Her son, Brandon, now in high school, still returns to Bethune to get tutoring from a trusted staff member, she said.
A local alderman, Jason C. Ervin, said, ''Bethune has been a neighborhood school as long as I've been living.'' He has opposed shutting down Bethune. ''It is a staple in our community.''
Academics at Bethune have improved since its entire staff turned over in 2009. While still below the district average, test scores have climbed and parents say that their children have been engaged in schoolwork now more than ever and that all the school needs is more time.
With money saved from the consolidation, the district has budgeted more than $4 million to upgrade Gregory with air-conditioning and other amenities, some of which teachers at Bethune say their school already has. Officials also said parents from both schools would help draft a transition plan to deal with safety and social integration concerns, as well as a smooth transfer of academic and after-school support programs.
It was not yet known how many teachers would follow students to consolidated schools. While district guidelines allow up to 31 students per class, teachers and parents said there were similar classes at Bethune that have as few as 17 students, raising concerns that they would not get the same level of individual instruction at Gregory.
While maybe not financially viable for the district, the extra attention from small class sizes at Bethune has helped Tzia's grades, Ms. Turner said. She said one teacher singled her daughter out for individual music lessons, then gave Tzia an acoustic guitar because she knew the family could not afford one.
''With all these kids in one school, how's a teacher going to notice a kid?'' Ms. Turner asked, dreading what she fears will be the outcome of Wednesday's vote. ''I feel like it's going to be chaos.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tzia Ford, 9, at Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School, on the West Side of Chicago. It is one of 53 ''underutilized'' public schools set to be closed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (75%); CHEERLEADING (72%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); LITIGATION (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (56%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



704 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: As Chinese Leader's Visit Nears, U.S. Is Urged to Allow Counterattacks on Hackers

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With President Obama preparing for a first meeting with China's new president, a commission led by two former senior officials in his administration will recommend a series of steps that could significantly raise the cost to China of the theft of American industrial secrets. If milder measures failed, the commission said, the United States should consider giving companies the right to retaliate against cyberattackers with counterstrikes of their own.
The recommendations are from the private Commission on the Theft of American Intellectual Property, which is led by two figures who parted company with the White House on strained terms: Dennis C. Blair, Mr. Obama's first director of national intelligence, and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former ambassador to China who left his post to run, unsuccessfully, for the Republican nomination for president. 
''China is two-thirds of the intellectual property theft problem, and we are at a point where it is robbing us of innovation to bolster their own industry, at a cost of millions of jobs,'' Mr. Huntsman said, with a bluntness that would have been forbidden when he served in Beijing. ''We need some realistic policy options that create a real cost for this activity because the Chinese leadership is sensitive to those costs.''
The commission's report will be published Wednesday, two days before Mr. Obama's national security adviser, Tom Donilon, travels to Beijing to prepare for the meeting between Mr. Obama and Xi Jinping, China's new president. That two-day meeting, scheduled to start in California on June 7, has been highly choreographed on both sides. Mr. Donilon was preceded to Beijing by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, Secretary of State John Kerry and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey. All have prepared to line up new initiatives, consultations and military-to-military exchanges intended to show a maturing relationship between the world's two largest economies.
But the recent disclosures about Chinese cyberattacks and the theft of industrial secrets, an operation managed partly from a Chinese People's Liberation Army unit outside Shanghai, may affect the ability of Mr. Xi and Mr. Obama to forge anything the two men could claim to be a partnership. The new effort is similar to what Mr. Obama tried with Hu Jintao, Mr. Xi's predecessor, which despite a promising start during the 2009 financial crisis quickly went sour. For the last three years, relations between the two countries have been dominated by disputes with China over its territorial claims and arguments over how to pressure North Korea and Iran.
Mr. Donilon, who has taken on the management of relations with China as a personal project, has begun to address the cyberattacks and intellectual property theft in public speeches, and he has made the argument that they must move to the center of the Sino-American relationship. He has steered clear of specific steps the United States was willing to take in response, and he has been more delicate about the subject than the Pentagon, which recently issued a blistering report that for the first time named the People's Liberation Army as the source of much of the espionage against American companies and government facilities. In a sign of the diplomatic delicacy of the accusations, the White House would not say if it had reviewed the report; the Pentagon said it had been fully vetted.
The new report does propose specific remedies. One is to mandate that foreign companies that want to be listed on stock exchanges in the United States first pass a review by the Securities and Exchange Commission about whether they use stolen intellectual property. ''They all want their shares to be traded here, so this would impose a real cost,'' Mr. Blair said. Similarly, whether companies protect intellectual property would be considered by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which judges whether an investment in the United States could pose a security risk. Currently it looks only at national security implications of investments; this would add a new criterion.
But the commission also said that Congress should ''greatly expand the number of green cards available to foreign students who earn science, technology, engineering and mathematics degrees in American universities and who have a job offer'' in the United States, to ensure that they have an incentive to stay in the United States rather than return home with knowledge they can use to compete with American companies. That recommendation would probably run headlong into the immigration debate in the United States.
Some of the most interesting recommendations deal with combating China's role in cyberattacks, likely to rank among the most delicate subjects in Mr. Obama's meeting with Mr. Xi. The commission argued that American companies ''ought to be able to retrieve their electronic files or prevent the exploitation of their stolen information'' by designing their computer files to self-destruct if they fall into the wrong hands. But the authors of the report also say that if the damage ''continues at current levels,'' the government should consider allowing American companies to counterattack -- essentially taking cyberwar private.
''If counterattacks against hackers were legal, there are many techniques that companies could employ that would cause severe damage to the capability'' of the Chinese or other groups committing computerized theft, the report said. But it added a qualifier: ''while properly empowered law enforcement authorities are mobilized.'' Many in the administration have opposed such ideas, fearing that they could lead to a cycle of escalation between the United States and other nations that could easily spin out of control.
The report also said that as a last-ditch measure, Congress could impose a tariff on all Chinese products, ''designed to raise 150 percent of all U.S. losses from Chinese'' thefts. That measure could easily run into challenges as a violation of international trade law.
Mr. Obama will seek to defuse the tensions by holding the meeting with Mr. Xi at the Annenberg estate in California, allowing the two men and their top aides to have two days in near isolation. It is a highly unusual step -- Mr. Obama has rarely invited foreign leaders even to Camp David.
A National Security Council spokeswoman, Caitlin Hayden, said, ''We have no illusions about this.'' Mr. Obama, she said, ''seeks to expand the areas of cooperation in managing regional and global challenges -- and we seek to manage our differences in a way that prevents disruptive and unhealthy competition from undermining our interests.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CYBERCRIME (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (62%); ARMED FORCES (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); XI JINPING (79%); JACK LEW (73%); JON HUNTSMAN (72%); HU JINTAO (58%); DENNIS BLAIR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



705 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Even Before Apple Tax Breaks, Ireland's Policy Had Its Critics

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and ERIC PFANNER; Landon Thomas Jr. reported from Dublin and Eric Pfanner from Serraval, France.

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- The secrets of how Apple avoided billions of dollars in taxes lie in a low-slung building of glass and brick in the hills of County Cork.
There, in the Hollyhill Industrial Estate and elsewhere in Ireland, Apple employs a mere 4 percent of its global work force. But there, too, Apple recorded a staggering 65 percent of its worldwide income -- $26 billion last year -- enabling the company, according to Senate investigators, to markedly reduce its tax bill in the United States and the rest of the world.
Such arrangements are not uncommon in Ireland, where for years authorities have not only tolerated but encouraged multinational companies like Google, Facebook, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Citigroup to set up shop and provide good jobs, in return for helping those companies pay less tax around the world. 
But on Tuesday, as Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, found himself on Capitol Hill being questioned about Apple's tax practices, Ireland came under sharp criticism for its attractiveness as a pied-à-terre for American companies doing business in Europe. At the eye of that storm: a special corporate tax rate of only 2 percent that Senate investigators say Apple worked out with Irish tax authorities.
Carl Levin, the Michigan senator who heads the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, said Apple was ''exploiting an absurdity'' by using three Irish subsidiaries to legally avoid taxes.
The United States Senate is hardly Ireland's only critic on tax matters. Britain, France and other European Union countries have long been annoyed by Irish policies. During hearings in the British Parliament last week, Margaret Hodge, a member of the opposition Labour Party and chairwoman of the Public Accounts Committee, which oversees taxation, upbraided Matt Brittin, Google's vice president for North and Central Europe, that the company's tax practices were ''devious, calculated and, in my view, unethical.''
Even before the Senate subcommittee invited Mr. Cook to testify, the British prime minister, David Cameron, declared that the topic would be a focus of the meeting of the Group of 8 richest countries he plans to convene next month at Lough Erne in Northern Ireland.
''We need a truly global solution,'' Mr. Cameron wrote in a letter to Herman Van Rompuy, president of the European Council, in April. ''As I am sure you will agree, the path to reform starts with the basic recognition that current global tax rules do not reflect the modern and globalized economy that our citizens live and trade in.''
Ireland, with an economy that ranks 47th in the world, is not a member of the Group of 8.
Ireland's deputy prime minister, Eamon Gilmore, on Tuesday disputed the Senate report's contention that Apple paid a special rate, saying ''Ireland doesn't negotiate special tax rate deals with any companies.'' He said that if Apple was not paying its fair share elsewhere in Europe, the fault lay in ''loopholes'' in other European countries that make it too easy for companies to avoid taxation.
''That's an issue that has to be addressed first of all in those jurisdictions,'' Mr. Gilmore told reporters in Brussels.
The charge by the Senate subcommittee that Apple avoided paying $44 billion in taxes in the United States by keeping the bulk of its $102 billion cash hoard offshore has struck a nerve here in a recession-racked country where unemployment is 15 percent and the government is looking for ways to repay an 80 billion euro bailout, now equivalent to $103 billion, that it received from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund in 2010.
''There is something wrong with this picture -- the revenues of these companies keep increasing while our workers are getting crushed,'' said Peter Mathews, a chartered accountant who is also a member of the Irish Parliament for the governing Fine Gael party. ''Apple's cash pile is about the size of our national income. Why not have them pay a 4 percent levy to contribute to our national recovery?''
Apple, which set up its first overseas headquarters in 1980 in Cork to assemble Macintosh computers, has a long history with the Irish. Its 4,000 workers -- the largest Apple labor force in Europe -- is significant in a country of only 4.6 million people. Apple's employees assemble iMacs and Mac Pros and are also engaged in research, customer service and other support functions. ''Our tax system may be lax, but in exchange we get jobs and more foreign investment,'' said Stephen Kinsella, an economist at the University of Limerick who contributes to the influential Irish Economy blog. ''No doubt about it, the benefits outweigh the costs.''
Irish politicians through the years have stood behind the country's official 12.5 percent corporate tax rate, so much so that three years ago when the previous government negotiated the international bailout, it refused to budge when European negotiators wanted to make a higher tax rate a condition for a deal.
Government figures show that in 2010 the effective rate on the gross income of companies here was only 6 percent, and economists say that in some cases -- as with Apple -- it can go lower than that. That stands in contrast to the effective corporate tax rate in other countries: 29 percent in the United States, 22 percent in Britain, 27 percent for France and 24 percent for Germany.
More than 600 American companies have set up in Ireland, employing 100,000 Irish workers and enjoying the advantages of an English-speaking work force and low taxes.
Representatives of several American companies, including Amazon and Starbucks, have, like Google and Apple, insisted that they comply with the law.
''Apple does not use tax gimmicks,'' Mr. Cook told the Senate subcommittee Tuesday.
Under European Union law, companies based in one European country are permitted to do business across the 27-nation bloc, and Internet companies, in particular, use that rule to book their European revenue in the country offering the greatest tax benefits. For many, that is Ireland.
But if Ireland were to change its approach to taxation, other low-tax European countries like Luxembourg and Slovakia would simply take its place.
''Back in the 1970s and '80s, when Ireland was a poor state desperately trying to attract investment, tax was a weapon that others weren't using,'' said Richard Murphy, founder of the Tax Justice Network, a group in London that campaigns against tax havens. ''So Ireland developed a twofold strategy: low rates and not too many questions. It became the conduit state of choice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Brittin of Google talking last week to British lawmakers. Google, like Apple, takes advantage of lenient Irish tax laws. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (76%); POLITICS (76%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (69%); ETHICS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (70%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); PFIZER INC (56%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (70%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (67%); TIM COOK (58%); STEVEN JOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%) IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



706 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Apple Hits Tax Tension Head-On: For U.S. Companies, Money 'Offshore' Means Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Like some of the nation's prominent chief executives, Apple's Timothy D. Cook has a simple proposal to help spur the economy and encourage corporate tax compliance: give American companies a tax break to bring to the United States untaxed profits parked overseas.
But much of that money is already home. 
Multinationals based in the United States now hold more than $1.6 trillion in cash classified as ''permanently invested overseas.'' These funds will face the 35 percent federal corporate tax only if it is returned to the country.
In the convoluted world of corporate tax accounting however, simple concepts like ''overseas'' and ''returned to the country'' are not as simple as they appear.
Apple's $102 billion in offshore profits is actually managed by one of its wholly owned subsidiaries in Reno, Nev., according to the Senate report on the company's tax avoidance. The money is tracked by Apple company bookkeepers in Austin, Tex. What's more, the funds are held in bank accounts in New York.
Because the $102 billion is technically assigned to two Irish subsidiaries, however, the United States tax code considers the money to be under foreign control, and Apple is legally entitled to avoid paying taxes on it.
Tax experts say that such an arrangement is not uncommon among American multinationals. During the last several years, major companies like Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Google and Abbott Labs have lowered their tax bills by arranging for their billions in profits to flow to subsidiaries that are technically offshore -- even though some of the money is placed in United States Treasury bonds and other government securities.
Because the money is nominally held by the offshore companies, the tax code deems the money nontaxable, even if the funds are physically held in the United States. The savings to American companies is huge: the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that if foreign profits of United States corporations were fully taxed it would generate an additional $42 billion this year for the government -- about half the amount of the automatic spending cuts enacted as part of the so-called sequester.
The companies say that they need to shield their money overseas, however, because the official corporate rate of 35 percent is the highest in the world and puts them at a competitive disadvantage. And while the offshore money may be in American banks and controlled from home, executives say it would be irresponsible to return the money to their shareholders or invest it in the United States because of the high tax rate.
Just last month, Apple announced it would pay for its dividends to shareholders by taking on $17 billion in debt rather than tap into the untaxed foreign profits. Mr. Cook said it would have been a disservice to shareholders to use the ''offshore'' earnings and pay the 35 percent federal income tax.
But Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the committee, brushed aside those claims. ''You can bring the money home,'' he said. ''You'd just have to pay your taxes on it.''
Apple is one of about 20 major corporations that have been pushing for a fresh tax break, known as a ''repatriation holiday,'' which would allow them to bring the money to the United States at a drastically reduced rate. John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco, has led a sustained lobbying effort for such a policy, promising that it would act as a stimulus to encourage investment and increase jobs in the United States.
A similar policy was enacted in 2004, which prompted American companies to return more than $300 billion in foreign earnings at the reduced rate of 5.25 percent. But it led to no discernible increase in American investment or hiring. On the contrary, some of the companies that brought back the most money laid off thousands of workers, and a study by the National Bureau of Economic Research later concluded that 92 cents on every dollar was used for dividends, stock buybacks or executive bonuses. A study by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that a similar program would result in $79 billion in forgone tax revenue over a decade.
Opponents of the repatriation tax break say that Apple's accounting maneuvers show how easily major companies can shield their profits from the government, even putting companies without aggressive tax departments at a competitive disadvantage.
''The offshore companies are a fiction and the statement that the money is offshore is a fiction,'' said Edward D. Kleinbard, former staff director for the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. ''What they are asking for is a reward for having gamed the system.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco, has lobbied for a temporary corporate tax break. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMIHIRO HOSHINO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BONDS (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (66%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); ABT (SWX) (66%); ABT (NYSE) (66%); ABT (LSE) (66%); ABL (FRA) (66%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (78%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



707 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Is the Vision Thing Important?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH S. NYE Jr.

 BODY:
As we debate our role in the world today, it is worth asking how American global primacy came about in the last century. After all, George Washington celebrated our ''detached and distant situation.'' Some see our global role as the result of divine providence; others credit impersonal changes in a continental scale economy. But what about our leaders? Did it matter who was president?
Leadership experts stress the importance of transformational presidents with grand visions and an inspirational style rather than incremental leaders with a transactional style. 
In a careful study of the 20th century leaders who presided over the growth of American primacy, I found that many mattered -- but not always in the ways that experts predict.
While two presidents with transformational objectives (Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman) made particularly important contributions to the creation of the era of American primacy, two who had incremental objectives and a transactional style (Dwight D. Eisenhower and George H.W. Bush) may have been equally important because of their prudent management that allowed favorable structural change to occur without disastrous disruptions.
For example, if Ike had not rejected the recommendation of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that he use nuclear weapons against China, or if Bush had failed in managing the peaceful withdrawal of Soviet forces from Germany and the collapse of the Soviet empire, the world we inhabit today would be very different.
A careful assessment of the role of leaders has to look at what Sherlock Holmes referred to as dogs that did not bark, as well as those that did. Non-events can be as important in foreign policy as events.
Leadership theorists often assign a strong value to transformational leaders, but I found no evidence to justify such a preference. The best ethical record belonged to the incremental and transactional George H.W. Bush, and one of the poorest records to the transformational and inspirational Woodrow Wilson.
Yes, leadership mattered in the creation of American primacy. If the causes were purely structural, the process should have been much smoother.
After all, America represented roughly a quarter of the world economy both at the beginning and the end of the 20th century. American power was strengthened by World War I, but then we mistakenly turned inward to isolationism. A change in the structure of power resources cannot explain that interwar phase of retraction. A good explanation must take (unwise) leadership decisions into account.
In the middle of the century, America came to represent nearly half of world product and held a monopoly on nuclear weapons. Over the next two decades, this share gradually reverted to the century-long norm of a quarter of the world economy. That decline was structural, but it was accompanied by unwise leadership decisions that John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard Nixon made about Vietnam that created a second period of retraction.
By the 1970s, America had returned to its earlier share of the world economy, but that did not lead to Nixon's expected multi-polarity and the end of American primacy. On the contrary, American primacy increased in the 1980s and 90s. The major cause of this shift was long-term economic structural change that weakened the Soviet Union.
But again leadership mattered -- most importantly in Mikhail Gorbachev's unintended acceleration of the demise of the Soviet Union, but also in the successful choices made by Ronald Reagan and Bush that allowed the United States to capitalize successfully upon the structural changes.
So presidents matter, but not exactly in the ways that leadership experts predict. Their expectation that transformational leaders make all the difference and incremental or transactional leaders are simply routine managers greatly oversimplifies the role of leadership.
Appeals for transformational leadership are not necessarily the best way to understand the leadership needs of American foreign policy in the 21st century. Ironically, the first president of this century, George W. Bush, began with a domestic focus and an incremental foreign policy, but became transformational after Sept. 11, 2001. The result of his ambitious vision was the opposite of the successful policy of his father, who famously proclaimed that he did not do ''the vision thing.''
The moral of the story: Beware of experts and leaders bearing transformational gifts.
Joseph S. Nye Jr. is a professor at Harvard and the author most recently of ''Presidential Leadership and the Creation of the American Era.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); ETHICS (68%); WORLD WAR I (61%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



708 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: International Law Firms Unite to Fight Fraud

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
MADRID -- Twenty-two law firms will form a worldwide alliance to collaborate on financial litigation against questionable funds and other financial products sold across borders in the wake of scandals like that of Bernard L. Madoff. 
The law firms said the alliance was designed to reduce the dissonance in a world where financial markets allow products to be sold globally while litigation remains constrained by national legislation.
Law firms from the United States, Colombia, Israel, Macau, Morocco, Turkey and India, as well as from European countries including Spain, Finland, Britain, Luxembourg and Italy, will take part in the alliance. It will be headquartered in New York but run out of Madrid, with Javier Cremades, chairman of Cremades & Calvo-Sotelo, a Spanish law firm, as its president.
Three years ago, Mr. Cremades was involved in forming an alliance of about 60 law firms that ended up reaching a settlement, on behalf of defrauded clients, with banks that sold Mr. Madoff's funds. The alliance estimated at the time that three million investors worldwide had been affected by Mr. Madoff's fraud, though there were just over 4,900 active direct accounts shown in the Madoff records available to investigators.
The new alliance, named the International Network for Financial Litigation, is set to be introduced Wednesday in New York.
While increasing client referrals is also part of the group's purpose, the main and initial goal is to exchange information in order to improve and speed up coordination on international litigation.
Glen DeValerio, senior partner of Berman DeValerio, an American law firm that is part of the alliance, said in a statement: ''We are convinced that coordinating the talent and efforts of litigant firms worldwide shall help to create a framework of international legal security, transparency and market confidence.''
As the euro debt crisis has deepened, the number of lawsuits for alleged corporate fraud or false advertising in the financial services sector has risen in Europe, several of them instigated by retail investors who are claiming that banks aggressively marketed sophisticated financial products that were much riskier than labeled at the time of their sale.
Mr. Cremades said that one of the aims of the alliance was to put international pressure on national regulators in Spain and elsewhere to harmonize the rules and make it easier for small investors to sue without facing huge legal bills.
The alliance's push comes as the concept of American-style class action has been gradually spreading across Europe. This month, the French government announced that it would allow class-action lawsuits against companies accused of being misleading and over-charging for their services, in line with a pledge made by President François Hollande during his election campaign last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EURO CRISIS (70%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); DEBT CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: BERMAN DEVALERIO PEASE TABACCO BURT & PUCILLO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (79%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); FINLAND (79%); MOROCCO (77%); LUXEMBOURG (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



709 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: In New Delhi, Chinese Prime Minister Promotes Trade Ties

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Continuing his charm offensive in the Indian capital, Prime Minister Li Keqiang of China spoke before a gathering of nearly 500 business leaders here Tuesday and emphasized the importance of trade ties. 
''A few clouds in the sky cannot shut out the brilliant sun rays of our friendship,'' Mr. Li said.
In a veiled reference to efforts by the United States to strengthen ties with India, in part to serve as a check on China, Mr. Li said that a country can ''choose its friends but not its neighbors.''
''There is a proverb in Chinese that a distant relative may not be as useful as a near neighbor,'' Mr. Li said.
Officials in India have expressed clear appreciation that Mr. Li, who arrived in the country on Sunday, decided to make India the first stop of his first foreign trip since assuming office in March. But Indian leaders have also voiced deep concerns to the Chinese over a border spat that began April 15 in which nearly 50 Chinese troops camped for weeks on mountainous land in the Ladakh area of Kashmir that India claims as its own.
Referring to the dispute, Mr. Li told the business leaders that ''we have not shied away from this question, but have agreed to push forward in resolving this question.'' In remarks to reporters after the address, India's external affairs minister, Salman Khurshid, said that the Chinese had so far been unable or unwilling to tell the Indians why the incursion took place, but that the Indians had not asked Mr. Li directly.
''Why embarrass him?'' Mr. Khurshid asked. ''If he has the answer, he can share it with us. If he doesn't have the answer, he will discover it.''
Mr. Khurshid also said that the Chinese were aware that India was deeply concerned about its ballooning trade deficit with China, its largest trading partner. ''He's instructed his commerce minister to find ways of addressing this issue,'' Mr. Khurshid said of Mr. Li.
China's growing economic and military power and its increasing willingness to use those levers on the world stage have unnerved India's leaders, who are almost wholly focused on domestic concerns. China's economy is nearly four times the size of India's, its military spending is more than three times India's and its foreign currency reserves are more than 11 times India's.
In his speech, Mr. Li appeared to enjoy using the Indian greeting ''Namaste,'' saying he had learned it on his first visit to India 27 years ago and had been unable to use it since.
He noted several times that India and China had two of the largest domestic markets in the world. ''If every one of our combined 2.5 billion people would buy a new mobile phone,'' he said, ''it would blow up the orders lists of all the information technology manufacturers of the world.''
Mr. Li flew to Mumbai on Tuesday afternoon and was scheduled to depart for Pakistan on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (60%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%) KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



710 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: MetLife Will Repatriate an Offshore Reinsurance Unit to Mollify Regulators

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
MetLife, the nation's largest life insurer, said Tuesday that it would make its business more transparent by moving some deals for hedging risk back to the United States from offshore, pleasing regulators but underwhelming the stock market.
For a number of years, MetLife has been using a Bermuda subsidiary, Exeter Reassurance, to reinsure several billion dollars' worth of variable annuity contracts, in which customers pay in advance to receive guaranteed payments in retirement. By buying the reinsurance, MetLife was able to remove the obligations to these policyholders from its balance sheet.
Such transactions have become extremely popular in the life-insurance business in recent years, and regulators at the New York State Department of Financial Services have been investigating the deals since last July. The department's superintendent, Benjamin M. Lawsky, recently called them ''financial alchemy.'' 
''Let's call it shadow insurance,'' Mr. Lawsky said in a speech in April, recalling the so-called shadow banking system that appeared in the run-up to the financial crisis.
MetLife and other insurers have been trying to cope with the Federal Reserve's long-running policy of keeping interest rates very low to help revive economic growth. Many life insurers are having trouble because they normally buy bonds to make good on annuities they sold in the past, and they cannot get the yields they need in the current low-rate environment. They can reduce the obligations on their balance sheets, however, by shifting them to reinsurers.
But buying reinsurance from an off-balance-sheet subsidiary ''does not actually transfer the risk for those insurance policies off the parent company's books,'' Mr. Lawsky said in his speech. By law, reinsurance must involve a real transfer of risk; otherwise insurers are not supposed to use it to improve their balance sheets.
Mr. Lawsky said questionable reinsurance deals throughout the industry were increasing the likelihood that policyholders would not receive their payments at some point. He also expressed concern that they were causing systemic risk within the broader economy, the way the booming growth of mortgage-backed securities had done in the years before 2008.
MetLife's chief executive, Steven A. Kandarian, said in an annual presentation to investors on Tuesday that repatriating MetLife's policy obligations from Exeter ''proactively addresses recent regulatory concerns'' about such deals, adding that Mr. Lawsky's inquiry had been an important factor. He also said the change would put MetLife in a better position to comply with new collateral requirements put in place by Congress after the financial crisis.
Mr. Lawsky issued a statement on Tuesday praising MetLife's decision, saying the company had ''acted wisely in bringing this subsidiary back to the United States, where it will be subject to stronger rules and oversight.''
MetLife said the transaction, which it expects to complete next year, was also part of an effort to lower the risk of its variable annuities business. It also said it was ratcheting back on sales of the annuities, aiming for $10 billion to $11 billion worth this year, compared with $28.4 billion in 2011.
MetLife's shares closed down 1 percent, or 48 cents, to $42.82.
When MetLife's transaction is complete, it will have returned Exeter to the United States and merged it with three state-regulated MetLife units: the MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut; the MetLife Investors U.S.A. Insurance Company, now based in Delaware; and the MetLife Investors Insurance Company, based in Missouri. A spokesman said it was not yet clear where the merged company would be based.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MetLife plans to merge Exeter Reassurance, of Bermuda, with other state-regulated units. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REINSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ANNUITIES (76%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (95%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (95%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (95%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



711 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Markets Gain on Remarks by a Fed Official

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Reassuring comments from a Federal Reserve official and better earnings from two big retailers helped push the stock market higher on Tuesday.
Stock indexes wobbled between gains and losses in early trading, then took a turn higher just before noon. That's when news outlets reported that James Bullard, president of the Fed's St. Louis branch, had told an audience in Germany that the Fed should continue its bond-buying effort to bolster the economic recovery. 
''Those words were a salve for investors' nerves,'' said Lawrence R. Creatura, a fund manager at Federated Investors. Other Fed officials have recently talked about scaling back the program. ''There's a lot of uncertainty surrounding this issue,'' Mr. Creatura said. ''And uncertainty and investors aren't always a happy match.''
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 52.30 points, to 15,387.58, a gain of 0.3 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 2.87 points, to 1,669.16, a 0.2 percent bump. Both the Dow and the S.& P. are at record highs, not factoring for inflation. In addition, the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 5.69 points, to 3,502.12, a 0.2 percent gain.
Many investors were already looking ahead to Wednesday, when the Federal Reserve will release minutes from its most recent policy meeting and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will go before Congress to discuss his economic outlook.
''I think a lot of people are sitting on their hands waiting to see what the Fed says tomorrow,'' Michael Binger, senior portfolio manager at Gradient Investments in Minneapolis, said on Tuesday.
Mr. Binger said some investors believed that the Fed's support had underpinned the stock market rally. If the Fed pulls back, they reason, the rally would fizzle.
Stock in JPMorgan Chase, the country's top bank, gained 1.4 percent, to $53.02. Shareholders voted on Tuesday to allow Jamie Dimon to keep his two titles, chief executive and chairman.
Home Depot shares rose 2.5 percent, to $78.71, after the company reported an 18 percent increase in quarterly income as the housing market continued to recover.
It has been another solid earnings season for big companies, with corporate profits hitting highs even as revenue barely rises. Seven of every 10 companies in the S.& P. 500 have topped Wall Street's earnings forecasts, according to S&P Capital IQ. First-quarter earnings are on track to climb 5 percent over the year before. Revenue is expected to rise just 1 percent.
In the market for United States government bonds, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to 98 12/32, and the yield slipped to 1.93 percent, from 1.97 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); FII (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); JAMES DIMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



712 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: One Response to Apple Tax Strategy May Be to Copy It

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
The image of the American income tax law is of horrible and immense complexity.
But it turns out that in many ways it is not that complicated. The Apple tax tactic that came in for denunciation at Tuesday's Senate subcommittee hearing was not particularly difficult to carry out, and it seems to have been something known to some tax experts -- but not to many of those whose job it is to write tax laws.
''What impresses me is the effortlessness of Apple's international planning,'' said Edward Kleinbard, a tax law professor at the University of Southern California and a former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Tax Committee. 
The planning involved setting up subsidiaries that would get the lion's share of Apple's profits on sales in Europe and Asia. Apple incorporated those subsidiaries in Ireland -- making them exempt from immediate United States taxation -- and told Ireland that the subsidiaries were run from Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., and therefore were exempt from tax in Ireland.
''It hinges,'' said Mr. Kleinbard, ''on nothing more than an Irish shell company whose management in fact is in Cupertino, and a contract between two arms of Apple's single global enterprise with no economic significance to anyone outside of Apple. It's as if Apple checked a box to elect out of worldwide taxation on a vast swath of their international income.''
Was that shocking? It was to Senator Carl Levin, the chairman of the subcommittee that held the hearing. He said he had not seen anything comparable at General Electric or Microsoft, two companies whose tax returns Senate staff aides had previously combed through.
Mark Mazur, the assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy, testified he had never heard of such a thing. It is his job to recommend changes in tax laws.
But Samuel Maruca, the Internal Revenue Service director of transfer pricing operations, sounded surprised that people were surprised.
Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, saw nothing unusual. He vigorously denied Apple had used any ''tax gimmicks.''
It may be that once a loophole is spotted, using it is anything but complicated. But it can be very difficult to spot such a loophole without help from someone who has already found it.
If that is the case, Tuesday's hearing could have the exact opposite effect from the one that Senator Levin intended. It is not hard to imagine other chief executives reading news reports and asking their chief financial officers why they never thought of that. That could lead to even more companies finding ways to avoid American income taxes.
To use Apple's strategy, companies will need to meet a few criteria.
First, they must be multinationals.
Second, a large part of their profits must come from what is called ''intellectual property,'' like patents or copyrights.
Third, it helps a lot if the company can do its tax planning before it is obvious to outsiders -- or maybe even to insiders -- just how profitable that intellectual property is going to be.
Finally, they must find one or more countries that will let them pull the trick. Ireland seems to have been very clever. It offers the benefit of ''stateless subsidiaries'' only to companies that have actual operations in Ireland. Apple has its European headquarters there, and employs a lot of people. In effect, Ireland pays companies to come to Ireland by offering to let them avoid taxes in their home countries.
In Apple's case, as with many technology and pharmaceutical companies, the cost of production is but a fraction of the price paid by the customers. Most of the profits will accrue to the owner of the intellectual property.
Apple does nearly all of its research near its Cupertino headquarters. But in 1980 it signed over to an Irish subsidiary the right to profit from that research in most of the world. Buy an iPhone in Brazil, and Apple U.S. will benefit. Buy one in China, and the Irish operation books most of the profits.
That deal appears to have been very one-sided, given what happened to Apple. But Apple renewed it in 2008.
Such an inter-company deal should be on ''arm's-length'' terms. But that is hard to know. It is, testified Mr. Maruca, the I.R.S. official, ''our most significant enforcement challenge.''
Under American tax law, American companies owe tax on their worldwide profits -- but with a major catch. ''Foreign profits'' are not taxed until they are brought home. Then they are taxed at the American rate of 35 percent, less whatever foreign tax was paid. But there is no requirement that they ever come home.
President John F. Kennedy called for ending that deferral. Congress refused to do so, but passed provisions that were supposed to make it harder for companies to abuse the deferral rules. Senator Levin says that those rules have themselves been abused.
What will happen? Apple thinks the solution is simple. Let it bring the money home at a rate Apple and other companies would deem reasonable.
And what is reasonable? ''To incent a huge number of companies'' to bring back money, Mr. Cook testified, the new rate ''would have to be a single-digit number.''
Senator Levin hopes that the hearing will inspire his colleagues to change the law in a different way. ''These tax-shifting capabilities that these major corporations have cannot continue,'' he said.
But the result could be the opposite, with nothing happening on Capitol Hill as more companies use the Apple example to take a bite out of their tax bills.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Apple Operations International, an Irish subsidiary. Apple's structure allowed for huge profits to be exempt from American taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MACSWEENEY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (57%); CARL LEVIN (57%); STEVEN JOBS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (76%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



713 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Remarks on Oklahoma Tornadoes

 BODY:
The following is a transcript of President Obama's remarks from the State Dining Room of the White House on Tuesday about the severe weather in Oklahoma, as provided by the White House.
Mr. OBAMA: Good morning, everybody. As we all know by now, a series of storms swept across the Plains yesterday, and one of the most destructive tornadoes in history sliced through the towns of Newcastle and Moore, Oklahoma. In an instant, neighborhoods were destroyed. Dozens of people lost their lives. Many more were injured. And among the victims were young children, trying to take shelter in the safest place they knew -- their school.
So our prayers are with the people of Oklahoma today. 
Our gratitude is with the teachers who gave their all to shield their children; with the neighbors, first responders, and emergency personnel who raced to help as soon as the tornado passed; and with all of those who, as darkness fell, searched for survivors through the night.
As a nation, our full focus right now is on the urgent work of rescue, and the hard work of recovery and rebuilding that lies ahead.
Yesterday, I spoke with Governor Fallin to make it clear to Oklahomans that they would have all the resources that they need at their disposal. Last night, I issued a disaster declaration to expedite those resources, to support the Governor's team in the immediate response, and to offer direct assistance to folks who have suffered loss. I also just spoke with Mayor Lewis of Moore, Oklahoma, to ensure that he's getting everything that he needs.
I've met with Secretary Napolitano this morning and my Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Advisor, Lisa Monaco, to underscore that point that Oklahoma needs to get everything that it needs right away. The FEMA Administrator, Craig Fugate, is on his way to Oklahoma as we speak. FEMA staff was first deployed to Oklahoma's Emergency Operations Center on Sunday, as the state already was facing down the first wave of deadly tornadoes. Yesterday, FEMA activated Urban Search and Rescue Teams from Texas, Nebraska, and Tennessee to assist in the ongoing search and rescue efforts, and a mobile response unit to boost communications and logistical support.
So the people of Moore should know that their country will remain on the ground, there for them, beside them as long as it takes. For there are homes and schools to rebuild, businesses and hospitals to reopen, there are parents to console, first responders to comfort, and, of course, frightened children who will need our continued love and attention.
There are empty spaces where there used to be living rooms, and bedrooms, and classrooms, and, in time, we're going to need to refill those spaces with love and laughter and community.
We don't yet know the full extent of the damage from this week's storm. We don't know both the human and economic losses that may have occurred. We know that severe rumbling of weather, bad weather, through much of the country still continues, and we're also preparing for a hurricane season that begins next week.
But if there is hope to hold on to, not just in Oklahoma but around the country, it's the knowledge that the good people there and in Oklahoma are better prepared for this type of storm than most. And what they can be certain of is that Americans from every corner of this country will be right there with them, opening our homes, our hearts to those in need. Because we're a nation that stands with our fellow citizens as long as it takes. We've seen that spirit in Joplin, in Tuscaloosa; we saw that spirit in Boston and Breezy Point. And that's what the people of Oklahoma are going to need from us right now.
For those of you who want to help, you can go online right now to the American Red Cross, which is already on the ground in Moore. Already we've seen the University of Oklahoma announce that it will provide housing for displaced families. We've seen local churches and companies open their doors and their wallets. And last night, the people of Joplin dispatched a team to help the people of Moore.
So for all those who've been affected, we recognize that you face a long road ahead. In some cases, there will be enormous grief that has to be absorbed, but you will not travel that path alone. Your country will travel it with you, fueled by our faith in the Almighty and our faith in one another.
So our prayers are with the people of Oklahoma today. And we will back up those prayers with deeds for as long as it takes.
Thank you very much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); 2013 OKLAHOMA CITY TORNADO (90%); TORNADOES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JANET NAPOLITANO (79%); MARY FALLIN (58%); CRAIG FUGATE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



714 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: A Keynesian Victory, But Austerity Stands Firm

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
To go by the statements of most mainstream economists, one would be forgiven for believing this is the best of times for Keynesian economics.
Fans of John Maynard Keynes, the renowned early 20th-century economist who developed the theory on how nations could dig themselves out of an economic downturn, have been running victory laps since the collapse last month of the claim by the Harvard economists Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff that economies tend to slow significantly after government debt reaches 90 percent of gross domestic product.
Then, as if on cue, the number-crunchers in Brussels announced last week that the economy of the euro area countries -- which have been following a decidedly non-Keynesian path -- shrank yet again at the beginning of the year. It was the region's sixth quarterly contraction in a row.
The confluence of events provided further evidence of Keynes's central proposition: when consumers and businesses set out to reduce their debt burden, and private spending and investment stall, it is the government's job to borrow, spend and pick up the slack. 
The claim by Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff had provided an intellectual foundation to the demand by House Republicans, British Tories and Germans that indebted governments should move quickly to reduce their budget deficits and the burden of debt.
Its demise -- at the hands of a graduate student from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who discovered flaws in the Harvard economists' methods -- left a more modest assertion in its wake: heavily indebted nations grow more slowly. Yet it is not even clear that debt necessarily depresses growth. The track record from Europe and elsewhere suggests that austerity programs that hold back growth often make the debt burden even worse.
Two economists -- Lawrence H. Summers of Harvard, President Obama's former chief economic adviser; and Brad DeLong of the University of California, Berkeley -- proposed in a recent paper that at the rock-bottom interest rates that prevail today, government spending to encourage growth would in fact pay for itself. In the United States, they concluded, it would lighten the nation's future debt burden -- not increase it.
But in many ways it is the worst of times for Keynesian economists. For despite all this intellectual firepower, governments across the industrial world are zealously tightening their belts.
The Italian government has cut its annual budget deficit to 3 percent of G.D.P. last year from 5.5 percent in 2009, and the Irish government has slashed it to 7.6 percent from 13.9 percent. In Britain -- which has its own currency and is freer than its euro-area neighbors to set policy -- the government of Prime Minister David Cameron reduced the deficit to 6.3 percent of G.D.P. last year, down from 11.5 percent in 2009.
''We will not be able to build a sustainable recovery with long-term growth,'' Mr. Cameron said in a speech in March, ''unless we fix this fundamental problem of excessive government spending and borrowing that undermines our whole economy.''
The German government is running a budget surplus. And despite the public's belief that Washington is engaged in a spending spree, the deficit in the United States narrowed to 7 percent of G.D.P. in 2012 from 10.1 percent in 2009.
None of these countries are growing much, mind you. In the United States, unemployment is still stuck at 7.5 percent. In its latest economic forecast last month, the International Monetary Fund predicted that the nation's economy would grow only 1.9 percent this year, slowed by further budget-cutting.
What explains the gap between theoretical victory and policy defeat? Voters appear to want everything -- including more jobs and a smaller deficit. Is resistance to fiscal stimulus simply a matter of political tactics? Do Republicans automatically oppose anything coming from a Democratic administration they loathe?
Economists have articulated other tempting possibilities. One is that moral views are getting in the way of reason: the decisions of both elected officials and voters are driven not by economic research but by a belief in the virtue of thrift drawn from The Ant and the Grasshopper.
Another is that policy serves the interests of moneyed creditors, lenders who fear that heavily indebted governments will be tempted to default, permit higher inflation to erode the debt's real value or tax the wealthy more heavily in the future.
N. Gregory Mankiw of Harvard, a former chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush, has proposed another reason, rooted in a notion of democratic rule.
''If the goal of government is to express the collective will of the citizenry, shouldn't it follow the lead of those it represents by tightening its own belt?'' he wrote in a recent paper. ''If we as individual citizens are feeling poorer and cutting back on our spending, why should our elected representatives in effect reverse these private decisions by increasing spending and going into debt on our behalf?''
These propositions probably hold some truth. Yet they rely on a misdiagnosis of our economic circumstances. The world's recent experience suggests fairly strongly that excessive thrift will make us all poorer. If everybody stops consuming and starts saving at the same time, there will be a lot fewer jobs producing stuff to consume.
There are two additional arguments that rely less on a misreading of economics. The first, which applies primarily to the euro area, has to do with the distribution of the costs of fiscal stimulus and austerity.
The idea that austerity is the solution for the economic crisis in Greece, Spain, Italy and other weak economies of the euro area is appealing in Germany precisely because it demands sacrifices of the citizens of the periphery. Keynesian stimulus would require German money.
The other argument derives from a seemingly myopic conflation of the short and the long term: worried about the scary rise of Social Security and Medicare spending in future decades, voters demand budget cuts now.
This self-defeating demand is the main driver of economic policy in the United States today.
Yet the voters' position is not irrational. Americans' unwillingness to support more spending now comes from an entirely reasonable mistrust of the government's willingness to cut spending later.
Fortunately, there is a way to square the circle, if only our political masters could overcome their partisan animus to embrace it. The answer is to combine some stimulus in the present -- via tax cuts or more public spending -- with transparent, legally binding initiatives to limit spending in the future.
For instance, the administration could propose raising the retirement age a decade down the road. It could also save a lot of money by rejiggering Medicare's cost-sharing formulas. The higher-income elderly could be made to shoulder a larger share of their health care costs in the future.
Swapping future cuts in Social Security and Medicare for more spending today will not be an easy deal. Liberal Democrats will balk at trimming the social safety net. House Republicans appear immune to any fiscal compromise.
The Obama administration has tried some of this at the margin. It proposed changing the price index used to adjust Social Security benefits, slowing their rise. It has had no success.
But a deal along these lines offers a plausible political path toward an economic policy that is not quite as self-destructive as the one we've got. The goal: Keynesian today, when the economy needs it, but not tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This month, demonstrators in Madrid protested Spain's plans for cost-cutting in education. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HANNA/REUTERS)
In Greece, street vendors gave out free produce last week during a strike against government plans to open up the sector. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B10) CHARTS: Cuts Continue, and Growth Is Slow: Governments on both sides of the Atlantic are cutting their budget deficits...but they are posting little or no economic growth.(Sources: Eurostat
 U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EURO (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRELAND (79%); ITALY (76%); BELGIUM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



715 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Amid Storm Recovery, Life-and-Death Stories From School: Why No Safe Room to Run To? Cost and Culture of the Plains

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ; John Eligon contributed reporting from Moore, Okla., and Laurie Goodstein from New York.

 BODY:
The Web site for the City of Moore, Okla., recommends ''that every residence have a storm safe room or an underground cellar.'' It says below-ground shelters are the best protection against tornadoes.
But no local ordinance or building code requires such shelters, either in houses, schools or businesses, and only about 10 percent of homes in Moore have them.
Nor does the rest of Oklahoma, one of the states in the storm belt called Tornado Alley, require them -- despite the annual onslaught of deadly and destructive twisters like the one on Monday, which killed at least 24 people, injured hundreds and eliminated entire neighborhoods.
It is a familiar story, as well, in places like Joplin, Mo., and across the Great Plains and in the Deep South, where tornadoes are a seasonal threat but government regulation rankles. 
In 2011, a monster tornado razed large parts of Joplin, killing 160 people in a state that had no storm-shelter requirements. The city considered requiring shelters in rebuilt or new homes but decided that doing so would be ''cost prohibitive'' because the soil conditions make building basements expensive, said the assistant city manager, Sam Anselm. Even so, he estimated that half the homes that had been rebuilt included underground shelters. Schools were being rebuilt with safe rooms, he said.
In Moore, the Web site explains that the city has no community shelter because a 15-minute warning is not enough time to get to safety and because, ''overall, people face less risk by taking shelter in a reasonably well-constructed residence.''
This is generally true, but not for a storm like Monday's milewide tornado, which was a terrible reminder of a tornado that caused extensive damage on May 3, 1999.
Curtis McCarty, a member of the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission and a builder himself, said the twister on Monday would have defeated attempts to resist it above ground. ''You cannot build a structure that's going to take a direct hit from a tornado like that that's going to stand,'' he said.
The city's Web site sounds tones that, in retrospect, might seem implausibly optimistic. It says the experience in 1999 -- ''an extremely unique event weatherwise'' -- meant that the standard ''shelter in place'' methods of protection were adequate. If another storm comes, ''there's only a less than 1 percent chance of it being as strong and violent as what we experienced'' before.
Larry Graves, a project manager with Downey Consulting, an engineering company in Oklahoma City that works with schools, said buildings had been upgraded with safe rooms in a piecemeal way in recent years. ''You're seeing more of it, but it's a big funding item,'' he said, noting that a school district might reinforce a large common bathroom with concrete or build an extra-strong gymnasium as a shelter.
Without added protection, Mr. Graves said, the drill is roughly the same as it was when he was a schoolboy 40 years ago: ''They move you into the hallway, and you stay there tucked up and wait it out.''
Construction standards in Moore have been studied extensively. In a 2002 study published in the journal of the American Meteorological Society, Timothy P. Marshal, an engineer in Dallas, suggested that ''the quality of new home construction generally was no better than homes built prior to the tornado'' in 1999.
Few homes built in the town after the storm were secured to their foundations with bolted plates, which greatly increase resistance to storms; instead, most were secured with the same kinds of nails and pins that failed in 1999. Just 6 of 40 new homes had closet-size safe rooms.
Mayor Glenn Lewis of Moore said that since then, the town had strengthened building codes, including a requirement that new homes incorporate hurricane braces. The city has also aggressively promoted the construction of safe rooms and other measures, with more than $12 million from state and federal emergency management funds to subsidize safe-room construction by offering a $2,000 rebate, said Albert Ashwood, the director of the Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management. Still, he said, it has been several years since Moore has received new financing for the program.
About a year and a half ago, Mr. McCarty, the builder, spoke to a group of Oklahoma legislators who were considering mandating shelters for new homes, he recalled. But no legislation was proposed, he said, because of the bad economy. A small, prefabricated sunken shelter can cost $4,000, he said, and ''mandating another three or four thousand dollars on every new home can really add up when you're trying to keep houses affordable.''
Houses in Oklahoma, Mr. McCarty said, are usually built on slabs without basements or crawl spaces because the land is flat and the weather is temperate enough that digging a deep foundation is not necessary, as it is with homes built in the Northeast, where the temperatures regularly dip below freezing.
''When you look at the flat land, and the amount it would cost to excavate and remove the dirt, the cost of the foundation to build a basement just adds a substantial amount to the cost of a new home,'' Mr. McCarty said.
Assessment calculations also discourage basement building, he said; assessors value basement square footage at half the rate of ground-level space.
Mike Gilles, a former president of the Oklahoma State Home Builders Association, said that he built safe rooms in all his custom homes, and that even many builders who build speculatively now make them standard.
But asked whether the government should require safe rooms in homes, he said, ''Most homebuilders would be against that because we think the market ought to drive what people are putting in the houses, not the government.''
Mr. Anselm, the official in Joplin, said that the city had applied to Missouri for emergency funds for safe rooms, but that the state used money from the Federal Emergency Management Agency primarily for disaster relief from flooding.
Beyond expense and construction standards, there is a local attitude about tornadoes that borders on temerity. There is a joke among Oklahomans that when the storm sirens sound, instead of taking cover, everyone goes outside and looks for the storm.
That was what Leon and Larry Harjo did Monday. The 45-year-old twins sat outside their brick home to see what was going on as the sirens blared and hailstones pelted. Only when they glimpsed the enormous funnel cloud barreling their way did they run to a medical center across the street to take cover in a hallway.
Even that was a harrowing experience; Larry Harjo said the wind had blown him and his wife around as they clutched each other on the ground. A door was ripped off its hinges, ceiling tiles fell, and they heard cars crashing against the building.
Would surviving the tornado make them think twice about waiting so long to hunker down the next time?
Larry Harjo said: ''You can't run every time you hear a warning. You'll be scared your whole life.''
His brother added: ''Might as well just sit back. If it gets you, it gets you. If not, another day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The tornado that reduced areas like this neighborhood in Moore, Okla., to rubble killed at least 24 people, officials said Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE GOOCH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Emerging in Moore, Okla., where shelters are optional. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD ROWE/REUTERS) MAP: Plaza Towers Elementary School: At least seven children died when the storm destroyed the school, which lacked safe rooms to shelter students and teachers. (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY SHELTERS (90%); TORNADOES (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); WEB SITES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ORDINANCES (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (97%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



716 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Miami Workers Bribed Venezuelan Banker and Shortchanged Her, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- There may be no honor among thieves, but there certainly is no shortage of chutzpah.
First came the hefty kickbacks that employees at a Miami brokerage office pledged to pay María de los Angeles González, a Venezuelan banking official, for steering millions of dollars of business their way -- which she did, federal prosecutors contend.
Then Ms. González's American conspirators secretly shortchanged her on the agreed-upon bribes, lying to her about how many millions they made and delivering just a fraction of the illicit profits she was promised, according to court documents filed in New York this month.
If that were not enough, one of the Americans even insisted that Ms. González reimburse him for a portion of his income tax, arguing that Uncle Sam was unfairly taxing him on money he had passed on to her as bribes. 
And she paid him, court papers say.
But the real loser in what prosecutors described as a $66 million scheme appears to be the Venezuelan government, which controls the bank where Ms. González worked. It was duped into forking over huge overcharges on financial transactions to line the conspirators' pockets, according to the court papers.
Ms. González and two of the brokerage employees were arrested in Miami this month, and federal authorities in the United States are taking steps to seize property linked to the defendants' dealings, including Swiss bank accounts and four Florida condominiums that officials say were bought with illicit proceeds.
Financial fraud is common enough in both countries, but the scandal has generated headlines at a particularly sensitive time in Venezuela, throwing open a window onto what critics call endemic government corruption.
The nation's new president, Nicolás Maduro, was elected last month in a special election to replace the country's longtime president, Hugo Chávez, who died in March.
But his narrow margin of victory, just 1.5 percentage points, has left him weakened, and if the scandal were to spread it could undermine him further as the nation struggles with a deepening economic crisis characterized by high inflation and shortages of basic foods and other goods, like toilet paper.
At the center of the case is Ms. González, 55, alternately identified as vice president of finance and as executive manager of finance and funds administration of the Economic and Social Development Bank of Venezuela, known as Bandes, an arm of the government. She has a long career in private and government-run banks, and her possible ties to current and former government officials suggest that the case has the potential to shake the political establishment.
Shortly after winning the election, Mr. Maduro appointed the head of the development bank, Edmée Betancourt, to be the new president of Venezuela's Central Bank. A previous president of the development bank, Alejandro Andrade, who led the institution at the time the suspected fraud is said to have begun, was a close ally of Mr. Chávez and is still considered to be a major power broker. He also held the post of national treasurer at the time he ran the development bank.
The court papers indicate that at least one other official at the bank besides Ms. González received kickbacks as part of the scheme. But that official, whose title appears as ''Treasury Management'' in an e-mail cited in the court papers, is not named in the documents and is not charged.
''It's a news item, just a news item,'' said Temir Porras, who was named last week to lead the development bank. He said the public prosecutor's office would investigate to see ''if there is some type of punishable offense.''
But others here were quick to see in the banking scandal signs of a deeper problem.
''What the case of Bandes shows is the impunity that reigns in Venezuela,'' said Carlos Tablante, a former legislator and governor. ''This has to be investigated deeply, not for the amount of money it represents in bribes, but to look for networks of corruption.''
Venezuela had the lowest ranking of any country in the Western Hemisphere last year in an index compiled by Transparency International, a group that campaigns against corruption, meaning that Venezuela was perceived as the most corrupt.
The bribery scheme began in 2008, according to a criminal complaint by the office of Preet Bharara, who is the United States attorney in Manhattan, and a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission, both filed in federal court.
The papers contend that employees of the Miami office of the brokerage firm, Direct Access Partners, which has its headquarters in New York, struck a deal with Ms. González: She agreed to steer the development bank's lucrative bond trading business to the firm in exchange for kickbacks.
The brokerage employees agreed to pay Ms. González at least half of the grossly inflated fees they planned to charge the bank for routine transactions, according to the federal filings.
But, the complaints said, the employees routinely lied to Ms. González about the size of those fees, sharply cutting her kickbacks and increasing their share of the illicit take, the papers said.
In one trade, in August 2009, the brokerage firm charged an $875,000 markup, but the employees told Ms. González that it made just $125,000, according to the S.E.C. She was paid $62,500, the S.E.C. said, although her deal called for her to get at least half of the firm's full markup.
Nonetheless, Ms. González, whom the brokerage employees nicknamed ''the ant'' (they called the other bank employee who received bribes ''passion fruit''), received as much as $9 million from 2009 through June 2010, the S.E.C. charged.
In the scheme's most audacious maneuver, authorities said, the brokerage firm twice bought a large quantity of bonds from the bank and sold them back to the bank at an inflated price on the same day. The two round-trip transactions generated $10.5 million in revenue for the brokerage firm while providing only a loss to the bank.
The authorities say that those transactions and many others generated millions of dollars for the brokerage firm, paid partly in the form of bonuses and other compensation to two of its employees, Tomas Clarke, 43, and Jose Alejandro Hurtado, 38, and that the men passed on a portion of that money to Ms. González, using a web of companies and bank accounts in the United States, Panama and Switzerland. Court papers show that other executives at the firm also received large amounts from the trades in question, and that the S.E.C. investigation is continuing. The firm did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
At one point in 2010, Mr. Hurtado complained to Ms. González, that the subterfuge had increased his income tax payments and insisted that she return to him $709,989.
Ms. González was surprisingly sympathetic. ''Now I understand your bad mood when you spoke to the accountant,'' she wrote to Mr. Hurtado in an e-mail quoted in the court papers. ''That Uncle Sam is baaaaaad. You work and he charges. He makes you crazy.'' Ms. González then transferred to Mr. Hurtado the money he requested, the court papers say.
Mr. Hurtado and Mr. Clarke were charged with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the two men and Ms. González were charged with money laundering and with using foreign or interstate travel to commit a crime.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bandes, the Venezuelan Economic and Social Development Bank. Prosecutors say it was grossly overcharged for brokerage fees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BRIBERY (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ARRESTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (59%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



717 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Vodafone Reports First Full-Year Revenue Drop Since 2005

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
LONDON -- Vodafone on Tuesday posted its first decline in full-year revenue since 2005, saying that rapid growth at its American unit and in emerging markets did not make up for a slump in Southern Europe and price cuts mandated by European regulators. 
Revenue at Vodafone was down 4.2 percent to £44.4 billion, or $67.6 billion, for 2012, while core earnings fell 3.1 percent to £13.3 billion.
The company, based in London, said it would keep a £2.1 billion dividend payment from its American unit, Verizon Wireless, rather than returning it to shareholders. Vodafone is at the center of intense speculation as to whether it will sell its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless, in a deal that has been estimated at $120 billion.
''We have faced headwinds from a combination of continued tough economic conditions, particularly in Southern Europe and an adverse European regulatory environment,'' Vodafone's chief executive, Vittorio Colao, said in a statement.
Mr. Colao declined to comment on whether he would consider a sale of the Verizon Wireless stake, merely saying that he had nothing new to report.
Verizon Communications, the American company that holds the other 55 percent of Verizon Wireless, has made little secret of its wish to buy out its British partner. It has ramped up the pressure in recent months, saying that it believed it could buy the asset in a tax-efficient way.
The full-year results highlighted a problem for Mr. Colao, with Verizon Wireless growing at a rapid rate compared with assets in the core European markets that have now struggled for several years.
The steepest revenue declines came from Southern Europe, where operators are cutting prices to win business from struggling consumers. In Italy, service revenue fell 12.8 percent, while in Spain it was down 11.5 percent.
The group also took a £1.8 billion charge on its business in Italy, bringing the total write-downs for Spain and Italy for the year to £7.7 billion.
Having completed a three-year dividend program that guaranteed 7 percent growth per year, Vodafone said it now aimed at least to maintain the ordinary dividend per share at current levels.
Full-year margins on core earnings were down 0.5 percentage points to 29.9 percent, from 33.1 percent just three years ago.
''The situation in Southern Europe remains one of disappointment,'' said Richard Hunter, the head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers. ''The question of the Verizon stake remains at the top of the agenda for investors, although Vodafone's decision hitherto to stay put continues to reap measurable rewards, quite apart from the value of its stake appreciating by the year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC (61%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); HL (LSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%)

PERSON: VITTORIO COLAO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



718 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Next Xbox Will Face New Array Of Rivals

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
REDMOND, Wash. -- Microsoft is betting it has a new way to win the wallets of consumers.
The company on Tuesday introduced the new version of its Xbox video game console. The Xbox has been one of Microsoft's few undeniable consumer hits of the last decade, a product that was not just a credible entry into the games business but also a sign of the innovation possible at a company that is rarely seen as an inventive thinker.
''I think of Xbox as the accidental success out of Microsoft,'' said James McQuivey, an analyst at Forrester Research, who added that the connection Microsoft has formed with the players of its current Xbox is ''much deeper than any relationship Microsoft has ever achieved before.'' 
The new console, the Xbox One, will enter a market very different from the one its predecessor, the Xbox 360, entered nearly eight years ago, when there was no iPad, smartphones had keyboards and mobile gaming devices were primitive at best.
Today, video games can be played almost anywhere, on any device, with the biggest possible audience of online friends and without the aid of a costly gaming console.
The last year or two has been bumpy for Microsoft's consumer efforts. The Windows 8 operating system software and the Surface tablet-computing devices got a tepid reception from the public when they went on sale last fall.
The company's mobile phone efforts have been largely ignored. And even Bing, Microsoft's Internet search engine, has failed to close a wide gap with Google, the market leader.
Microsoft, though, could see better results with the Xbox. With it, it hopes it can reassert the living room as the place where people can still get the best gaming experience, complete with eye-popping graphics and innovative methods for controlling games. It is also a place where Microsoft's technology can be at the center of a home entertainment system and the funnel through which people gain access to online video.
Microsoft has sold more than 76 million of the device's current incarnation, the Xbox 360 worldwide, compared with almost 100 million Wii consoles from Nintendo and more than 70 million PlayStation 3s from Sony.
The company also controls what may be the most valuable asset in console gaming, Xbox Live, a subscription-based online service with 48 million members who use it to play games against one another and watch movies.
''You can do a lot of things on the phone and a lot of things on tablets,'' said John Taylor, an analyst at Arcadia Investment. But, he said, ''you can't do the same kinds of things on those devices'' that you can on a television screen.
Microsoft plans to develop its own original, live-action television series, which will be accessible through the Xbox. The series will be made in partnership with the director Steven Spielberg and will be based on the popular Halo video game franchise.
The company is also working with the National Football League to develop an app for Xbox that lets players interact with their fantasy football teams while watching a live game.
In an interview, Don A. Mattrick, the president of Microsoft's interactive entertainment business, said that he recognized the growing appeal of mobile devices for gaming and that Microsoft would aggressively tie smartphones and tablets into the experience of using its console. He became most animated when talking about the possibilities of the new Xbox for providers of video programming.
''We're going to the take the form from a one-way experience pushed through a straw to where you can communicate back and make it interactive,'' Mr. Mattrick said.
Even if it is a wild success, the new Xbox is likely to have a bigger impact on consumer perception than it will on Microsoft's overall sales. The Xbox remains a small slice of the company's business, which is still dominated by sales of Windows, Office and other software. The company's games division represented only 4 percent of its operating profit.
At an event in a carnival tent on its corporate campus, Microsoft did not say how much the new system would cost or how publishing partners would charge for games, which typically start at around $60 for high-end game consoles.
A major feature of the new Xbox, which is expected to hit store shelves in time for the holiday season, will be a new generation of Kinect, the camera-based motion-control sensor introduced several years ago as an Xbox 360 accessory. The new Kinect will come with every Xbox One.
Traditional retail sales of games have come under pressure in recent years as mobile devices like the iPhone and iPad have invaded their turf with free and low-cost games. While many gamers dismiss those offerings as inferior to console games, the games have nevertheless tapped into a huge audience of players who may never have played on an Xbox or Sony's PlayStation.
The games business could use a jolt. Total United States retail sales of game hardware and software fell 25 percent to $495.2 million in April from $657.5 million a year earlier, according to estimates by NPD Group, a research firm. That figure does not include the sale of downloadable content over the Internet.
Alex St. John, an entrepreneur who worked on Microsoft's pre-Xbox game efforts, says he is pessimistic about prospects for gaming consoles.
''They're coming out with the latest and greatest stone tool,'' Mr. St. John said. ''The new console that trumps the old console is called the Apple iPad. This generation of kids loves mobile games.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Microsoft's new game console, shown to the press Tuesday. (B1)
 Don Mattrick, head of Microsoft's interactive entertainment business, said the console would interact with mobile devices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); SMARTPHONES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); NINTENDO CO LTD (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 7974 (TSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



719 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; IN THE RUNNING; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: A Mayoral Hopeful Who Says City Hall Must Look Beyond Manhattan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Bill de Blasio drives a gas-sipping Ford hybrid and cultivates tomatoes and peppers from his backyard in brownstone Brooklyn.
He works out at the socially responsible Y.M.C.A. and opted for the all-hands-on-deck rigors of the Park Slope Childcare Collective.
His wedding was a multicultural billboard for the borough: under a pin oak tree in Prospect Park, he married an African-American writer who previously identified as a lesbian.
In the race for New York mayor, this is the new face of borough agitation. 
After conquering New York City's food scene, climbing atop its sports world and elbowing into its film business, the New Brooklyn is now pursuing the final frontier of influence, City Hall, in the person of a 6-foot-5 Italian-American who drinks organic milk, recycles obsessively and likes to call people ''brother.''
The borough's dizzying journey from snubbed sibling of Manhattan to marveled-at international destination may invite endless teasing about artisanal mayonnaise and flannel-sheathed hipsters. But Mr. de Blasio, 52, the city's public advocate, is determined to capitalize on its ascendancy, grass-fed beef jerky and all, offering the new Brooklyn as a proxy for all the boroughs outside Manhattan, whose dynamism and energy, he argues, is woefully unmatched by their influence inside the mayor's office.
''There is a sharp understanding that the farther away you go from Manhattan, the farther you go out in concentric circles, the less your voice matters at City Hall and the less your reality is seen as important to the future of the city,'' he said over lunch in Prospect Heights.
He lamented a ''weird, almost colonial dynamic'' between the glittering island of skyscrapers and the rest of the city.
That message may prove unusually popular this year. Three of the Democratic mayoral candidates are clustered in Manhattan, creating a geographic imbalance that Mr. de Blasio is eager to exploit.
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, is closely identified with the well-off Chelsea district she represents. William C. Thompson Jr., a son of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, decamped to gentrifying Harlem five years ago. And Anthony D. Weiner, who is expected to jump into the race as soon as Wednesday, once embodied the frustrated blue-collar ethos of Forest Hills in Queens but has just abandoned that borough for Gramercy Park.
''He lives on Park Avenue in an elegant apartment,'' Mr. de Blasio observed dryly, as he drove through Crown Heights the other day. ''It's different when you are living it now.''
Mr. de Blasio's campaign for mayor may be the ultimate test of Brooklyn's might. It has been 40 years since New York City sent a Brooklyn resident to Gracie Mansion -- Abraham D. Beame, who was elected to a single, tumultuous term in 1973.
Mr. de Blasio does not exactly fit the image of the rough-edged, hot-tempered, conservative-minded non-Manhattan candidate of yesteryear. (Think Rudolph W. Giuliani, originally from East Flatbush, who campaigned as the angry, anticrime champion of Brooklyn and Staten Island.)
But he may not need to be. Increasingly, Brooklyn is starting to look a lot more like Mr. de Blasio and the idyllic, thoroughly gentrified Park Slope neighborhood he calls home: whiter, better educated and higher earning.
The Park Slope-ization of central Brooklyn now seems inexorable, with demographic change even beyond immediate neighbors like Carroll Gardens, Prospect Heights and Fort Greene. From 2000 to 2011, Bedford-Stuyvesant, once written off as impossible to gentrify, absorbed about 16,800 new white residents and lost around 13,000 blacks. Nearby, the southern section of Crown Heights gained about 7,600 whites, losing 13,600 blacks, according to census data analyzed by John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at City University of New York Graduate Center.
The new arrivals, Mr. Mollenkopf said, are reliable and active Democratic voters. ''That works to Bill's benefit,'' he said.
Like many before them, Mr. de Blasio and his wife, Chirlane McCray, sought Park Slope as a refuge -- not just from sky-high real estate prices in Manhattan, but also from neighborhoods that seemed hostile to an interracial couple.
Stares and sneers, they recalled, were common, from Flatbush (where she lived) to Astoria (where he did). For Ms. McCray, the lure of a community that celebrated diversity ran especially deep: growing up in the overwhelmingly white community of Longmeadow, Mass., in the late 1960s, she and her family had endured overt racism. Neighbors dumped trash in their driveway, and a few teachers made clear she was not welcome in their classes, she recalled.
In the progressive urban experiment that is Park Slope, they ended up on a block of row houses with a half-dozen gay couples, in a neighborhood where a Jewish couple has adopted a Guatemalan child, and in a child care collective with an Irishman who wedded an Ecuadorean.
''It was an accepting place,'' Mr. de Blasio said. ''Going back 20 years, you could count on one hand, or two hands, the places that you could say that about.''
The neighborhood's surging wealth has made Mr. de Blasio a millionaire, on paper at least. The home he and his wife bought in 2000 for $450,000 is now worth $1 million, and he inherited a second Park Slope row house from his mother when she died in 2007. But gentrification has already squeezed out close friends and a favorite local bakery. His experience there, as a parent, school board official and councilman, underpins much of his campaign for mayor, a crusade for grass-roots progressivism and an all-out assault on the top-down approach of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration.
Mr. de Blasio likes to tell the story of John Jay High School in Park Slope, a chronically troubled place that was broken up into smaller schools in 2001, after intense consultation with parents and community leaders.
The overhaul, done at the hands of a powerful school board on which Mr. de Blasio served, was not perfect, he says now, but ''people felt they had some say in the process.''
''That,'' he continued, ''does not happen now.''
By 2002, elected school boards had evaporated under mayoral control of schools, ending an era, warts and all, when local residents played a decisive role in the fate of institutions like John Jay.
Mr. de Blasio pointed to the abrupt closing of a local public school recently. ''There's no respect,'' his wife interjected.
''And people think that would never happen on the Upper East Side,'' Mr. de Blasio replied.
''Oh, please,'' Ms. McCray said.
Mr. de Blasio likens Mr. Bloomberg, in approach if not results, to Robert Moses, and has amassed a running tally of the indignities and inequities in four boroughs: a yawning income gap, a surge in fines for small businesses, slighted schools and inadequate early childhood education.
He envisions an activist city government that addresses those disparities head on. Unlike most of the Democratic field, he calls for a tax increase on the rich, to bankroll universal prekindergarten.
As he steered his hybrid into the Flatbush section of Brooklyn -- he long ago got rid of his police detail as unnecessary -- Mr. de Blasio issued a dare: ''Jump out of this car and talk to the first 10 people you meet. Ask them if they can identify anything the city has done to help them through this economy. Good luck if you can find a one.''
Sure enough, the neighborhood was teeming with frustrated, working-class voters, many of them seething at Mr. Bloomberg, who is barred by law from seeking re-election. ''No Bloomberg, no Bloomberg,'' chanted a few dozen supporters of Mr. de Blasio as they made their way down Church Avenue.
A woman named Shannon Smith grabbed Mr. de Blasio's sleeve, despairing that, because of what she said was a bureaucratic error, the Education Department would not let her grandson graduate. ''The system is not catering to the children,'' she fumed.
Mr. de Blasio, dressed in a gray suit, listened intently, hunching his towering figure to eye level as he handed the woman a bright red and yellow business card and promised to follow up.
He chafed at the notion that he lacks the raw emotion required to animate such voters.
''I don't think it's about being angry,'' he said. ''I think it's about being purposeful. Right now, people need to know if you are on their side. They don't care if it's filled with dramatics or not.''
On the sidewalk, a young man named Frankie Ford approached Mr. de Blasio to complain about crushing fines imposed on a friend's restaurant. Eventually, he unloaded a critique of Bloomberg-era New York that not even Mr. de Blasio could have scripted, railing against unfair allocation of resources after Hurricane Sandy and the proposed ban on large sugary drinks.
He seemed genuinely heartened to see a mayoral candidate in his neighborhood. ''It's more than I can say for Christine Quinn or Anthony Weiner,'' he said.
He added, ''It's called the five boroughs for a reason.''
In the Running: Articles in this series are examining the candidates for mayor of New York City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Public Advocate Bill de Blasio is a Democrat who lives in Park Slope. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21)
Bill de Blasio at breakfast with his wife, Chirlane McCray, and their son, Dante. The couple found Park Slope welcoming.
 Mr. de Blasio at Friends of Crown Heights Education Center. He has worked at the Park Slope Childcare Collective. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); SPORTS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (68%); CHILD CARE (57%); BEEF (51%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



720 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Debate Aside, Drone Strikes Drop Sharply

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama embraced drone strikes in his first term, and the targeted killing of suspected terrorists has come to define his presidency.
But lost in the contentious debate over the legality, morality and effectiveness of a novel weapon is the fact that the number of strikes has actually been in decline. Strikes in Pakistan peaked in 2010 and have fallen sharply since then; their pace in Yemen has slowed to half of last year's rate; and no strike has been reported in Somalia for more than a year.
In a long-awaited address on Thursday at the National Defense University, Mr. Obama will make his most ambitious attempt to date to lay out his justification for the strikes and what they have achieved. He may follow up on public promises, including one he made in his State of the Union speech in February to define a ''legal architecture'' for choosing targets, possibly shifting more strikes from the C.I.A. to the military; explain how he believes that presidents should be ''reined in'' in their exercise of lethal power; and take steps to make a program veiled in secrecy more transparent. 
Previewing the speech last weekend, an administration official speaking on the condition of anonymity said Mr. Obama would also ''review our detention policy and efforts to close the detention facility at Guantánamo Bay; and he will frame the future of our efforts against Al Qaeda, its affiliates and adherents.'' Some Obama supporters have urged him to use the occasion to announce that part of a 6,000-page Senate study of the C.I.A.'s former interrogation program will be declassified and made public.
Mr. Obama, who insisted early in his presidency on a personal role in many strike decisions, may also shed light on the declining use of drone strikes. Current and former officials say the reasons include a shrinking list of important Qaeda targets, a result of the success of past strikes, and transient factors ranging from bad weather to diplomatic strains. But more broadly, the decline may reflect a changing calculation of the long-term costs and benefits of targeted killings.
Obama administration officials have sometimes contrasted the drone program's relative precision, economy and safety for Americans with the huge costs in lives and money of the two wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Over time, however, the costs of the drone strikes themselves have become more evident.
Reports of innocent civilians killed by drones -- whether real or, as American officials often assert, exaggerated -- have shaken the claims of precise targeting. The strikes have become a staple of Qaeda propaganda, cited to support the notion that the United States is at war with Islam. They have been described by convicted terrorists as a motivation for their crimes, including the failed attack on a Detroit-bound airliner in 2009 and the attempted car bombing of Times Square in 2010.
Notably, a growing list of former senior Bush and Obama administration security officials have expressed concern that the short-term gains of drone strikes in eliminating specific militants may be outweighed by long-term strategic costs. Among the cautionary voices are Michael V. Hayden, who as C.I.A. director in 2008 oversaw the first escalation of strikes in Pakistan; Stanley A. McChrystal, the retired general who commanded American forces in Afghanistan; James E. Cartwright, the former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and Dennis C. Blair, the former director of national intelligence.
''I think the strikes have been tremendously effective,'' said Mr. Hayden, a retired Air Force general, who said he was speaking generally and not discussing any particular operation. ''But circumstances change. We're in a much safer place than we were before, and maybe it's time to recalibrate.''
Mr. Hayden said that through 2008, the ''first-order effect of these operations -- that a dangerous man is dead'' was viewed as so important that other consequences were set aside. But with a diminished terrorist threat, he said, the negative effects of the strikes deserve greater consideration. Among them, he said, were alienating the leadership of countries where the strikes occur; losing intelligence from allies whose laws prohibit support for targeted killings; an eroding political consensus in the United States; and ''creating a recruiting poster for Al Qaeda.''
One of Mr. Obama's ambitions on taking office was to forge a new, more positive American image in the Muslim world. But the drone strikes, along with the president's failure to carry out his promise to close the Guantánamo Bay prison in Cuba, have helped drive the United States' approval rating to new lows in many Muslim countries. In Pakistan, for instance, 19 percent of those surveyed by the Pew Research Center had a positive view of the United States in the last year of George W. Bush's presidency. By last year, the approval rating had fallen to 12 percent.
''Globally these operations are hated,'' said Micah Zenko, a scholar at the Council on Foreign Relations who wrote a major study of targeted killing this year. ''It's the face of American foreign policy, and it's an ugly face.''
Tracing the rise and decline of strikes in Pakistan and Yemen, it is possible to correlate some of the numbers with shifting political conditions. In Pakistan, for instance, the C.I.A. has cut back on strikes as relations have grown strained -- after the arrest of a C.I.A. contractor, Raymond Davis, in January 2011, for example, and after the incursion of a SEAL team to kill Osama bin Laden in May 2011. A recent hiatus in strikes in Pakistan may have been prompted by the desire not to fuel anti-American sentiments during the campaign before the May 11 general elections.
Bruce Riedel, a former C.I.A. analyst and Brookings Institution scholar, said there were many reasons for the declining number of strikes in Pakistan.
''But a growing awareness of the cost of drone strikes in U.S.-Pakistan relations is probably at the top of the list,'' Mr. Riedel said. ''They are deadly to any hope of reversing the downward slide in ties with the fastest growing nuclear weapons state in the world.''
In Yemen, strikes rose sharply last year as the United States supported efforts by Yemeni authorities to reclaim territory taken over by the local Al Qaeda branch and its supporters in the tumultuous aftermath of the Arab Spring, said Bill Roggio, editor of the Long War Journal, a Web site that tracks the strikes. The numbers have declined since, and there were no strikes at all in Yemen in February or March.
Mr. Roggio said a growing chorus of criticism -- including a young Yemeni journalist who passionately criticized the strikes at a recent Senate hearing -- may be influencing American policy. ''I get the sense that the microscope on the program is leading to greater selectivity in ordering strikes,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Drone operators flying an MQ-9 Reaper training mission from a control station at Holloman Air Force Base, N.M., last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AIRMAN 1ST CLASS MICHAEL SHOEMAKER/U.S. AIR FORCE, VIA REUTERS) (A3) CHART: The Rise -- and Decline -- of the Drones: The pace of United States airstrikes in Yemen and especially Pakistan has slowed. The strikes in Pakistan are all believed to have been carried out by drones
 those in Yemen have sometimes used jets or cruise missiles in addition to drones. (Source: Long War Journal) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (70%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); US AIR FORCE (59%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); YEMEN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



721 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Employees Will Keep Their Health Plans

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Because the state&#8217;s employees are relatively highly paid, the impact of Massachusetts&#8217; health care reform is likely to be different than that of the Affordable Care Act, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
Massachusetts and a few neighboring states are likely to experience the Affordable Care Act a lot differently than the rest of America.
Massachusetts is often held up as a window into America's health insurance future, because it embarked on what came to be called the Romneycare reform six years ago. Like the Affordable Care Act provisions going into effect nationwide next year, Romneycare aimed to increase the fraction of the population with health insurance by imposing mandates on employers and employees and by subsidizing health insurance plans for middle-class families without employer plans. 
Because the subsidized plans are available for only low- and middle-income families whose employers do not offer affordable health benefits, some analysts fear employers around the nation will drop their health benefits as the Affordable Care Act goes into full effect, resulting in millions of people losing the opportunity to get health insurance through an employer.
But some people say they believe this fear is likely to be unfounded, because the propensity of Massachusetts employees to receive employer-sponsored health insurance was hardly different after Romneycare went into effect than it was in the years before.

The details and dollar amounts in the Massachusetts health care law differ from the national Affordable Care Act, and for that reason alone I hesitate to infer too much from the Massachusetts experience. Even if the two laws were essentially the same, the effects in Massachusetts could be different than the national effects because Massachusetts has a different population and business environment than the rest of the nation.
Last week I explained how specific types of employers could be expected to drop their health benefits during the next couple of years: those employers that currently offer benefits but nonetheless pay much of their payroll to people living in households below 300 percent of the federal poverty line, who are eligible for the most generous federal subsidies as soon as their employer ceases to offer benefits.
Massachusetts has an extraordinary fraction (almost two-thirds) of its population above 300 percent of the federal poverty line, and as a result practically all Massachusetts employers will prefer to retain their health benefits over the next few years, even though a significant fraction of employers elsewhere will not.
One way to quantify the difference between Massachusetts employers and employers elsewhere is in the percentage of payroll going to employees from families below 300 percent of the poverty line. At a national level, the percentage varies from 4 percent in Internet publishing to about 50 percent in restaurants and private household employers. The national average is 20 percent, compared with 13 percent in Massachusetts.
Employers have a variety of factors to consider in their benefit offering decisions, but I have made some estimates that focus on the payroll-composition statistics noted above. By my estimates, employers with percentages of 26 to 35 percent of employees above 300 percent of the poverty level have a sufficiently high percentage that they are likely to have been offering health insurance benefits before the Affordable Care Act. Yet they have a low enough percentage that their employees gain on average if the employer health benefit is dropped and employees take the subsidies available through the Affordable Care Act's health insurance exchanges.
About 10 percent of employees with health insurance live in a state and work in an industry with compensation percentages in the range where profits are to be gained by dropping employer health insurance. But none of them live in Massachusetts, and some states that border Massachusetts, including New Hampshire and Connecticut, are in a similar situation.
A number of states and industries - especially the industries I emphasized last week - have more than 35 percent of their payroll paid to people in families under 300 percent of the poverty line and are unlikely to be offering employee health benefits.
But those employers in Massachusetts who have 35 percent of their payroll paid to people in families under 300 percent of the poverty line are more likely to offer some kind of health benefit, in part because of Romneycare's incentives to create "cafeteria plans" in which employees authorize pretax salary to be withheld from their paychecks for the payment of health insurance premiums.
Under the federal law, the Massachusetts cafeteria plans will lose some of their advantages to employers in terms of avoiding penalties for failure to offer health benefits.
Based on the combination of these two factors - that no Massachusetts industries have 26 percent to 35 percent of their employees under 300 percent of the poverty line, and that Massachusetts employers will lose the advantages of their cafeteria plans - I calculate that employers offering health insurance in Massachusetts are one-third as likely to drop their employee health plans over the next couple of years as are employers in the rest of the nation.
That's because the percentage of the United States work force at risk of losing its employer insurance (because of the tendencies of their industry and states to have low- and middle income employees) is three times the percentage of the Massachusetts work force in the same situation. 

        
Health Coverage Worthy of a Senator
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Patterns of Changes in Health Insurance
        
Hammurabi's Code and U.S. Health Care
        
Small Companies and the Affordable Care Act

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); WRITERS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Massachusetts; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Today's Economist

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



722 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Lessons for Silicon Valley on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA


HIGHLIGHT: As the rest of the technology industry spends million lobbying lawmakers in Washington, Apple, which on Tuesday came in for a gentle grilling over taxes, has remained aloof. 

 BODY:
There were two stark object lessons for the technology industry in Congress on Tuesday. One showed the power of influence. The other showed the power of the iPhone. 
In the Senate Judiciary Committee,the industry scored an enormous victory. It got its way on the immigration bill after Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, told his fellow committee members that he would not vote for the bill unless they agreed to changes that Silicon Valley pushed for. It reflected an aggressive effort by the industry: companies have vastly expanded their lobbying budgets in Washington and dispatched executives to meet with lawmakers to push for an immigration overhaul. The latest, brashest entrant is an advocacy group led by Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook, which raised huge sums of moneyto sponsor advertisementssupporting several critical Republicans who back the immigration bill. 
In the Senate Permanent Committee on Investigations, meanwhile, Apple's chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, testified. He was questioned by panel members about how Apple's subsidiaries had helped the company pay as little as one-twentieth of 1 percent in taxes on billions of dollars in income. Congressional investigators earlier this week unveiled a report detailing those tax diversions by Apple subsidiaries, based in Ireland but spanning other regions around the world. 
Mr. Cook chose to take a low-key approach to the grilling, explaining that there was a difference in the tax rates that applied to the company's sales in the United States versus those abroad, where a majority of its sales took place. He insisted that Apple had paid what it owed in the United States. 
Lawmakers may have been disarmed by Mr. Cook's tone. But they also gushed about the shiny toys that his company made, taking pains to praise the iPad, iPhone and MacBook laptop computer by name. "You managed to change the world, which is an incredible legacy for Apple," said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona.
Apple may soon have to think about a legacy in Washington, which it has largely avoided unlike most of its peers in the industry. The company, based in Cupertino, Calif., spends very little in lobbying on Capitol Hill. And it has been largely invisible in even the immigration debate. 
So too was another Silicon Valley company that was likewise known for having changed the world: Microsoft. Twenty years ago, it came under Justice Department scrutiny for antitrust violations. And only after that did it hire lobbyists to press its cause in Washington. Today, Microsoft is one of the highest industry spenders in Washington, investing $8 million last year. 
Immigration has been one of its top issues lately. On Tuesday, Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, sent out a congratulatory missive as soon as the immigration bill passed the Judiciary Committee. The bill, Mr. Smith said in his e-mailed statement, "will promote innovation, job creation and economic growth in the U.S. We look forward to supporting this critical bipartisan legislation as it proceeds to the Senate floor for a vote."
Mr. Smith is among the contributors to Mr. Zuckerberg's lobby, called Fwd.us. It includes no one from Apple. 

        
Daily Report: Apple's Chief Charms Capitol Hill
        
Daily Report: Zuckerberg's Lobbying Group Is Criticized Over Tactics
        
Why Tim Cook Is Like Steve Ballmer
        
Disruptions: Let Silicon Valley Eat ... Ramen Noodles?
        
At Tech Conferences, All Eyes Are on the Celebrities

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); POLITICS (77%); TABLET COMPUTERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (63%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); LAWYERS (60%) Cook, Timothy D; Hatch, Orrin G; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Lobbying and Lobbyists; United States Politics and Government; Apple Inc; Facebook Inc; Microsoft Corporation; Senate; Silicon Valley (Calif); Apple Inc|AAPL|NASDAQ; Facebook Inc|FB|NASDAQ; Microsoft Corporation|MSFT|NASDAQ

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc; Facebook Inc; Microsoft Corporation; Senate

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%) Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; Microsoft Corporation; MSFT; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (93%); TIM COOK (89%); ORRIN HATCH (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Cook, Timothy D; Hatch, Orrin G; Zuckerberg, Mark E

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



723 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: How Dimon Won

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Jamie Dimon&#8217;s victory in a JPMorgan Chase shareholder vote was aided by months of lobbying. | Timothy D. Cook mollified lawmakers who had been furious over Apple&#8217;s taxes. | After Warren E. Buffett, will Berkshire Hathaway be able to negotiate such sweet deals? | A lawyer for Rajat K. Gupta argued that wiretap evidence should not have been admitted. 

 BODY:
After months of behind-the-scenes lobbying by JPMorgan Chase officials, Jamie Dimon won shareholder support on Tuesday to keep his chairman role. Only 32.2 percent of the bank's shares supported a resolution to split the chairman and chief executive jobs, compared with about 40 percent of the shares voted last year. JPMorgan's stock rose as much as 2.6 percent on Tuesday, before closing up 1.4 percent, at $53.02.
"The shareholder resolution, while intended to improve corporate governance by having an independent chairman as a counterweight to a chief executive, became a referendum on Mr. Dimon himself. It was a test he easily passed," Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Susanne Craig report in DealBook. In an e-mail to employees after the annual meeting, Mr. Dimon wrote: "I love coming to work here every day - and hope to be doing it for years to come." 
Early indications showed the vote was heading to a resounding defeat. But before the annual meeting, Mr. Dimon had to persuade one director, Ellen V. Futter, not to resign. "Ms. Futter, the president of the American Museum of Natural History, was sick of the swirl of negative attention surrounding her, worried that it needlessly detracted from JPMorgan's strengths and that it might hurt the reputation of the museum, people briefed on the matter said." But Mr. Dimon "called her on Monday to try to convince her to stay, although he acknowledged that it was a personal decision, the people briefed on the matter said." In the end, Ms. Futter changed her mind.
The broader lobbying effort, in which influential board members were paired with large shareholders, paid off. "I think that given the resources that the management and the board threw at this, it's not a surprise that the vote was lower than last year," said Lisa Lindsley, director of capital strategies at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees union. Still, the preliminary vote totals for Ms. Futter and the other two directors on the risk committee were effectively rebukes. Ms. Futter received just 53 percent of the voting shares, while the two others did only a little better.
APPLE CHIEF EASES TAX TENSION | "Timothy Cook came to the lion's den on Capitol Hill on Tuesday, prepared to face down lawmakers furious over evidence that Apple, the famous company he runs, had avoided paying billions in taxes. By the time Mr. Cook walked out, the big cats on a Senate committee were practically eating out of his hand," Nelson D. Schwartz and Brian X. Chen report in The New York Times. "Even the panel's fiery chairman, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, after blasting Apple for creating 'ghost companies' that diverted billions of tax dollars from American coffers and caused needy seniors to go without meals, had some kind words for Mr. Cook and his company."
Since Apple creates economic value in the United States, it might seem logical for that value to be taxed here. Not so, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column. The problem, he writes, "is the disparity between the value of a product for economic purposes and the value of a product for tax purposes. Economic intuition tells us that the source of Apple's income is in the United States, but the legal answer is less clear."
Apple's strategy actually was not all that complicated, Floyd Norris writes in his column in The New York Times. The tactic that came in for denunciation at Tuesday's hearing "seems to have been something known to some tax experts - but not to many of those whose job it is to write tax laws."
ON THE AGENDA | The Federal Reserve releases minutes from its April meeting at 2 p.m. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, testifies before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress at 10 a.m. Hewlett-Packard and SeaWorld report earnings on Wednesday evening. Data on existing home sales for April is out at 10 a.m.
BUFFETT MAY BE IRREPLACEABLE | "The ability to make acquisitions on favorable terms is a testament to Mr. Buffett's personality and skills as a deal maker," Steven M. Davidoff writes of Warren E. Buffett in the Deal Professor column. "It also highlights an almost unsolvable problem for his company, Berkshire Hathaway, and its shareholders. When its 82-year-old chief executive is gone, who will negotiate such sweet deals?"
GUPTA'S APPEAL | When Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, was found guilty last year of leaking the bank's boardroom discussions to a hedge fund, a secretly recorded conversation was perhaps the most critical piece of evidence. "On Tuesday, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta argued that a federal appeals court should overturn his client's conviction and grant a new trial because the verdict was tainted by the erroneous admission of that statement and other wiretapped conversations," DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. The lawyer, Seth P. Waxman, said, "The wiretaps should never have been admitted."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Sony Board Weighs Breakup Proposal | Sony is considering a proposal from the American hedge fund Third Point to spin off part of its entertainment business but emphasized the discussions were preliminary and that the company had set no timetable for a response. DealBook »
Former G.M. Executive in Bid for Fisker | VL Automotive, a carmaker led by the former General Motors executive Robert A. Lutz, teamed up with the Wanxiang Group, a Chinese auto parts supplier, to make an offer for the embattled car company Fisker Automotive, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Sprint Raises Offer for Clearwire Stake | Sprint Nextel raised its offer on Tuesday for the nearly 50 percent stake in Clearwire that it does not already own, just hours before shareholders were scheduled to vote on its earlier offer. DealBook »
Philip Morris to Buy Full Control of Mexican Joint Venture | 
REUTERS
Temasek Said to Buy Stake in Markit | Temasek Holdings of Singapore bought a 10 percent stake in the Markit Group for about $500 million, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Temasek Increases Stake in Chinese Bank | The Singapore fund bought 280 million shares in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China as Goldman Sachs sold its investment, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Lloyds Bank Expresses Confidence on Capital Requirement | The Lloyds Banking Group said on Wednesday that it believed it could improve its capital without issuing new shares or converting bonds into shares, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Deutsche Bank Seeks Changes to Supervisory Board | Deutsche Bank "is asking investors to replace three nonbankers supervising its executives with finance and legal experts after litigation-related costs eroded profit last year," Bloomberg News writes. BLOOMBERG NEWS
MetLife to Repatriate Offshore Reinsurance Unit | The New York Times reports: "MetLife, the nation's largest life insurer, said Tuesday that it would make its business more transparent by moving some deals for hedging risk back to the United States from offshore, pleasing regulators but underwhelming the stock market." NEW YORK TIMES
Merck Agrees to Buy Back Shares From Goldman | Merck agreed to buy about $5 billion worth of shares from Goldman Sachs, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Nomura to Increase Overseas Staff in Fixed-Income | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Carlyle Seeks $2 Billion for Fund Focused on Japan | The Carlyle Group is looking to raise 200 billion yen ($2 billion) for a third Japanese fund, "with Japan's aggressive monetary easing helping to boost investor interest," Reuters reports, citing unidentified people with direct knowledge of the matter. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
From a Hedge Fund, Claims Over Libor Manipulation | Salix Capital, which owns claims from closed hedge funds that once were part of FrontPoint, argues in court documents that the hedge funds' trading was hurt by banks suppressing Libor, Thomson Reuters News & Insight writes. THOMSON REUTERS
In SAC Case, Prosecutors Said to Consider Using Racketeering Law | Reuters reports: "U.S. prosecutors are considering charging Steven A. Cohen's SAC Capital Advisors as a criminal enterprise engaged in a long pattern of insider trading in stocks, according to a person familiar with the matter." REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
China Galaxy Securities Rises in Trading Debut | The brokerage firm China Galaxy Securities rose 9.1 percent in its stock market debut on Wednesday in Hong Kong, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
After Tech Industry Lobbying, Immigration Overhaul Moves Forward | A broad overhaul of the nation's immigration laws was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday. NEW YORK TIMES
Despite Stumbles, a Promising Path for Start-Ups in Brazil | Investors and entrepreneurs say that economic conditions in Brazil are difficult but that long-term prospects remain highly favorable. DealBook »
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Brokerage Firm to Pay $7.5 Million Fine to Regulators | LPL Financial will settle accusations that it made misstatements and failed to supervise its brokers' communications properly. DealBook »
Irregularities Suspected at Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange | The Hong Kong securities regulator announced on Tuesday that it had discovered possible financial irregularities at the just-closed Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange and said it referred the matter to the police for investigation. DealBook »
In Europe, a Fed President Urges a Policy of Easing | In a speech in Frankfurt, James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said the European Central Bank should consider quantitative easing similar to that undertaken by the Federal Reserve, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Wall Street Advocacy Group Turns to Former Lawmakers | A former banker was successful at the helm of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. But using former politicians to sweet-talk regulators and try to improve the image Main Street has of the industry could be a better strategy, Daniel Indiviglio of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Herbalife Hires PricewaterhouseCoopers as Auditor | Herbalife has hired PricewaterhouseCoopers as its auditor, replacing KPMG, which had resigned as the company's auditor after it was revealed that a former partner had leaked secret information about clients to a third party. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); COUNTIES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); MAMMALS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); HISTORY (66%); WIRETAPPING (63%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (93%); TIM COOK (62%); WARREN BUFFETT (59%); CARL LEVIN (58%); STEVEN JOBS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



724 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 3151 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Clarity on Terrible Tornadoes in a Changing Climate

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A deeper look at tornadoes in a changing climate. 

 BODY:
As I explained earlier this week, questions related to any impact of human-driven global warming on tornadoes, while important, have almost no bearing on the challenge of reducing human vulnerability to these killer storms. The focus on the ground in Oklahoma, of course, will for years to come be on recovery and rebuilding - hopefully with more attention across the region to developing policies and practices that cut losses the next time. (With this in mind, please read John Schwartz's great feature, "Why No Safe Room to Run To? Cost and Plains Culture.")
The vulnerability is almost entirely the result of fast-paced, cost-cutting development patterns in tornado hot zones, and even if there were a greenhouse-tornado connection, actions that constrain greenhouse-gas emissions, while wise in the long run, would not have a substantial influence on climate patterns for decades because of inertia in the climate system.
Some climate scientists see compelling arguments for accumulating heat and added water vapor fueling the kinds of turbulent storms that spawn tornadoes. But a half century of observations in the United States show no change in tornado frequency and a declining frequency of strong tornadoes. [Update | The meteorological conditions that shaped events in recent daysare nicely explored by Henry Fountain of The Times.] 
Does any of this mean global warming is not a serious problem? No.
It just means assertions that all weird bad weather is, in essence, our fault are not grounded in science and, as a result, end up empowering those whose prime interest appears to to be sustaining the fossil fuel era as long as possible. I was glad to see the green blog Grist acknowledge as much.
On Tuesday, I sent the following query to a range of climate scientists and other researchers focused on extreme weather and climate change:
The climate community did a great service to the country in 2006 in putting out a joint statement [from some leading researchers] on the enormous human vulnerability in coastal zones to hurricanes - setting aside questions about the role of greenhouse-driven warming in changing hurricane patterns....
In this 2011 post I proposed that climate/weather/tornado experts do a similar statement for Tornado Alley.
I'd love to see a similar statement now from meteorologists, climatologists and other specialists studying trends in tornado zones. Any takers?
Before you dive in to the resulting discussion, it's worth reading Andrew Freedman's helpful Climate Central piece, "Making Sense of the Moore Tornado in a Climate Context," and a Daily Beast post by Josh Dzieza. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has posted a helpful new fact sheet, "Tornadoes, Climate Variability, and Climate Change." [Update| Robert Kunzig of National Geographic has written an excellent overview of tornadoes and greenhouse warming. The blogging meteorologist Jeff Masters has posted a thorough exploration of climate change and tornadoes.]
Read on for the conversation on tornadoes and global warming, with some e-mail shorthand fixed. 
First, I'm posting the comments that were focused on policy, then those focused on the details of the science:
Roger Pielke, Jr., professor of environmental studies, the University of Colorado:
People love to debate climate change, but I suspect that the community's efforts are far better placed focusing attention on warnings and response. That is what will save lives and continue the really excellent job that has been done by NOAA and the National Weather Service. I'd much rather see a community statement highlighting the importance of NOAA/NWS funding!
There will always be fringe voices on all sides of the climate debate. With the basic facts related to tornadoes so widely appreciated (unlike perhaps drought, floods, hurricanes), I think that those who see climate change in every breeze are not particularly problematic or worthy of attention.
Here are some of those basic facts:
1. No long-term increase in tornadoes, especially the strongest ones.
2. A long-term decline in loss of life (the past year saw a record low total for more than a century).
3. No long-term increase in losses, hint of a decrease.
4. To date 2013 has been remarkably inactive.
5. The Moore tornado may have been the strongest one this year, bad luck had it track through a populated area (Bill Hooke brilliantly explained the issue here).
6. That said, climatology shows that Moore sits at the center of a statistical bullseye for tornado strikes for May 20th.
Kerry Emanuel, professor of atmospheric science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (a signer of the 2006 statement):
I see the political problem with tornadoes as quite different from the hurricane problem we wrote about some years ago. To my knowledge, there are no massive subsidies to build in tornado regions, nor is insurance premium price fixing a big problem. Also, federal flood insurance is largely irrelevant to this problem. About the only thing in common is federal disaster relief, but it is hard to believe that people only build houses in huge swaths of tornado-susceptible territory because they believe they will be bailed out.
As you mention in your blog, the issues here revolve around such practical measures as safe rooms, and the role of government in mandating or subsidizing them. Perhaps one positive outcome of the latest horror story is that safe rooms in public buildings such as schools and hospitals will be mandated, given that they are apparently not all that expensive.
In my view, the data on tornadoes is so poor that it is difficult to say anything at all about observed trends, and the theoretical understanding of the relationship between severe thunderstorms in general (including hail storms) and climate is virtually non-existent. I regard this as a research failure of my profession and expect there will be a great deal more work on this in the near future. What little exists on the subject (e.g. the Trapp et al. paper from a few years ago) suggests that warming will increase the incidence of environments conducive to severe thunderstorms in the U.S. But this counts on climate models to get these factors right, and it may be premature to put much confidence in that.
Daniel Sutter, a professor of economics (focused on tornadoes), Troy University, offered the following thought after citing the Dot Earth comments of Kevin Simmons, his co-author on a recent book on tornadoes and society:
I would just add that the high cost per life saved through safe rooms which Kevin and I find in our research really indicates that tornado safety is about reducing and not eliminating risk. Safe rooms provide essentially absolute protection, but are expensive enough that many would likely judge them too expensive. We need to focus on ways to reasonably reduce risk. For instance, have engineers inspect schools and make sure the safest areas are indeed being used for shelter, or to see if there are relatively inexpensive designs that could strengthen interior hallways some.
I hate to say anything before I know for sure what the final story is from the Plaza Heights school, but the two schools yesterday appear to have provided pretty decent protection, especially since many homes around Briarwood school looked totally destroyed. Wind engineers have developed safe room designs which are great and engineering marvels, but we probably need designs that provide a good measure of safety at a portion of the price.
Also with regard to your previous post about flimsy homes, consider the contrast between how cars and houses are marketed. Cars are sold under brand names, and we have a dual system of federal regulation of designs for safety and auto makers designing cars that are safer than federal regulations require, with certification by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. Houses are mainly sold without brand names (I couldn't tell you who built the house I own here in Alabama) with safety assurances coming through building codes. Many times we see that homes perform poorly in tornadoes or hurricanes, while during a commercial break on the Weather Channel last night there was a car ad touting the model's crash test rating from the IIHS. If houses are indeed flimsy, there is probably a systematic reason for this.
Thomas Knutson, a research meteorologist at the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (a signer of the 2006 hurricane statement):
While the debate/discussion about possible climate change impacts (or not) on tornadoes is interesting, I thought that the helpful aspect of Kerry's approach in 2006 was to set aside the climate change debate aspect and instead focus on something we could all agree on.
For example, in the tornado case, if some group of people who otherwise disagree about the climate change issue, could at least agree that it makes sense to have better physical designs of structures, have available shelters in mobile home parks, etc. in an effort to save live, would this be a useful statement to make? Maybe Bill [Hooke], Harold [Brooks] or others would have a good list of recommendations that make sense regardless of whether the tornado climate is stationary or not.
William H. Hooke, associate executive eirector and senior policy fellow, American Meteorological Society:
This has been a terrific discussion and Tom Knutson is getting us to a good spot.
Two points could be made in any such statement:
1. Nature is essentially playing that kids' game of "Battleship" with us. Population growth and urban sprawl have transformed much of Tornado Alley from a rural area to a target-rich environment, as I described in a post two years ago.
2. It's not enough to improve warnings. Those getting the warnings need real options for action. Evacuation is risky. Shelter-in-place in tornado shelters (used once in a blue moon if at all) has the obvious downside that unless maintained, they become a haven for snakes, vermin, insects... generally unpleasant destinations. Some owners of tornado shelters have had to lock them up because they've become "attractive nuisances" in the legal jargon, serving as venues for pot parties, etc. Better option is the "safe room" interior to the house that is used daily or frequently for other purposes.
Here's the science-focused part of the discussion:
Kevin Trenberth, distinguished senior scientist, National Center for Atmospheric Research:
You do everyone a disservice to discount climate change the way you do. Of course tornadoes are very much a weather phenomenon. They come from certain thunderstorms, usually super-cell thunderstorms that are in a wind shear environment that promotes rotation. That environment is most common in spring across the US: when the storm track is just the right distance from the Gulf and other sources of moisture.
The main climate change connection is via the basic instability of the low level air that creates the convection and thunderstorms in the first place. Warmer and moister conditions are the key for unstable air. The oceans are warmer because of climate change.
The climate change effect is probably only a 5 to 10% effect in terms of the instability and subsequent rainfall, but it translates into up to a 33% effect in terms of damage. (It is highly nonlinear, for 10% it is 1.1 to the power of 3 = 1.33). So there is a chain of events and climate change mainly affects the first link: the basic buoyancy of the air is increased. Whether that translates into a super-cell storm and one with a tornado is largely chance weather.
Martin P. Hoerling, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration:
I am unaware, but interested to learn more, about the scientific evidence that supports the statement in Kevin's e-mail. The context of the sentence is in regard to tornadoes, but perhaps the comment he makes pertains to something else....it is unclear and confusing without the source reference:
Here is his statement he offers that I'm especially curious about:
"The climate change effect is probably only a 5 to 10% effect in terms of the instability and subsequent rainfall, but it translates into up to a 33% effect in terms of damage. (It is highly nonlinear, for 10% it is 1.1 to the power of 3 = 1.33)."
There are some additional points that Kevin raises which are interesting, but incomplete. He writes:
"The main climate change connection is via the basic instability of the low level air that creates the convection and thunderstorms in the first place. Warmer and moister conditions are the key for unstable air. The oceans are warmer because of climate change. "
The environment conducive for severe tornadic storms requires many ingredients, not least of which is the vertical shear of the wind in the storms environment, especially in the region near the base of the cloud (Harold can give the specifics). A further potential climate change connection, which Kevin overlooks, is the impact of a warmer world on the strength of the prevailing winds, and their increase in strength with height. Indications from peer review (e.g., Trapp et la. 2007, PNAS) is that changes in shear will act in opposition to changes in stability, making an overall assessment of possible impacts of climate change on severe convection difficult at this time.
It should be obvious that if stability and moisture were the main connections to severe convection, then summer (rather than spring) would be the season of most severe weather over the U.S. The dynamical ingredients associated with wind shear, and the triggers for releasing the latent and sensible instabilities, are critical to the problem.
Trenberth, replying to Hoerling:
With respect to climate change, one has to ask what are the influences on the atmosphere either from changes in atmospheric composition etc. or the places where memory occurs of the accumulated effects: mainly the oceans. Yes wind shear, and weather systems etc. are important but they are largely internal to the atmosphere and dependent on the synoptic situation.
Even models that suggest a change in overall mean winds or wind shear at some point in the future may not be particularly relevant with respect to the weather and the synoptic situations. And those models don't exactly simulate today's conditions well anyway. We will still have spring. It may come a bit earlier in general (changing the timing of the tornado season) but I have no doubt it will come.
Tornadoes require thunderstorms and wind shear, which occur in spring, not summer. Indeed the location of the storm track relative to the Gulf and sources of moisture is pretty critical. If it is too far north then there is no link (last year), or too far south then the wind shear is lost. You should recognize the unique situation in the U.S. where more tornadoes occur than anywhere else in the world, and the geography, Rockies, Gulf etc. plus seasons and weather all come into play. It is trite to say "what about summer!"
...There are many papers detailing changes in water vapor and precipitation (although the literature is confusing). Here is an example that tries to cut through some confusion.
 Climate Research, 47, 123-138, doi:10.3354/cr00953. [PDF]
I have then presumed that an increase in intensity and a change in wind speed goes up as wind speed cubed with respect to power dissipation and damage potential.
Martin Hoerling, replying to Trenberth:
To the point of Trapp et al., they discuss more than the effect of changes in thermodynamic stability. To be sure, increased thermodynamic instability, increased moisture content in the atmosphere (2 factors that Kevin called out), and increased vertical wind shear within 5 kilometers above the ground create an environment more favorable for a tornado outbreak. In particular, tornadoes are more likely to occur when both low stability (reflected in high values of "convective available potential energy" or "CAPE"), and high shear are present.
Secondarily, the presence of an elevated mixed layer (reflected in moderate values of "convective inhibition" or "CIN") can delay the onset of storms, such that when they occur, they do so more explosively and in the form of more long-lived, isolated supercells, which can spawn tornadoes. Trapp et al. suggest that the number of days during which meteorological conditions are favorable for severe storms may increase during latter decades of the 21st century, primarily due to increased instability, though they indicate that the projected decreases in vertical wind shear may oppose thermodynamic destabilization..
Harold Brooks, National Severe Storms Laboratory, Norman, Okla.:
I'm not sure what we'll be able to come with, but some basic points.
1. Interannual variability is incredibly large. It will be very difficult to detect long-trend trends. In the last 3 years, we've set records for the most F1+ tornadoes (back to 1954) in a 12 consecutive month period and for the fewest F1+ tornadoes. I think there's evidence to suggest that we have seen an increase in the variability of occurrence in the US.
2. Probability of occurrence is mostly driven by wind shear and intensity is almost completely independent of the thermodynamics. The observations are clear on that. As a result, expected changes in occurrence and intensity would be driven by wind shear changes. NOAA is doing some new work on this, but Brian Soden indicated to me that ~2/3 of the CMIP runs showed an increase in CAPE and a decrease in shear over the US.
3. There are more F1+ tornadoes in warm winter months and fewer in warm summer months. Given that there are more in the mean in the summer than winter, overall, if we take the warmest 10 Januarys, 10 Februarys, etc. back to 1954 and count the tornadoes in them and compare it to the coolest 10 Januarys, 10 Februarys, etc., there are ~20% fewer tornadoes in the collection of warm months.
 11:41 a.m. | James B. Elsner, an atmospheric scientist at Florida State University studying extreme storms, sent this thought by e-mail:
As with hurricanes, I think frequency needs to be separated from intensity.
Climate change increases the available energy for tornadoes through a warmer and moister atmosphere. Wind shear decreases in the global mean, but this might be irrelevant locally when the jet stream dives southward like it did last weekend across the Plains.
I believe there is evidence that the strongest tornadoes are getting stronger. They are certainly getting longer and wider.
I was out chasing this weekend in the Plains with my graduate students and the interesting thing was the lack of a widespread outbreak in favor of a few mighty ones. Shear was amazing.

        
Science Group Criticizes Politicians for Global Warming Distortions
        
Lessons from Sandy: Building with Resilience in Mind
        
Tornadoes and Warming, from the Archives
        
Kids (and Teachers) in Peril, From Oklahoma to Oregon
        
Extreme Weather in a Warming World, and the American Mind

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); WEATHER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); METEOROLOGY (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); HURRICANES (87%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); 2013 OKLAHOMA CITY TORNADO (73%); TRENDS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); COASTAL AREAS (67%) Disasters and Emergencies; Global Warming; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; Oklahoma; Texas; Tornadoes; Weather; Climate Change; disasters

ORGANIZATION: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Oklahoma; Texas

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



725 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Lifehacker: I've always noticed that some chefs cut their lemons lengthwise to squeeze the juice instead of through the Equator as do most home cooks, but never thought about why. Turns out there's a good reason: you get more juice. - Melissa Clark
: Sara Russo, the blogger and superfan who organized six yearly Feb. 5 World Nutella Days since 2007, has been ordered to cease and desist by the spread's Italian manufacturer, Ferrero SpA. Furious Nutella lovers want the celebration to continue under the name "Spread That Must Not Be Named Day." - Glenn Collins 
Medium: Sara Jenkins, the New York chef, on the difficulties of trying to get customers to sample wonderfully fresh but even slightly unusual fish. Bring me the porgy! - Eric Asimov
: Never mind cronuts. Portland's popular Voodoo Doughnuts is venturing out of the state for the first time - to Denver. Why there? "Denver is a pretty great start," the co-owner Tres Shannon says. "It's got a young population. It's health-oriented, sort of like Portland - ironic, since we sell doughnuts. But everybody likes doughnuts." Thanks to Mike Flam for the tip. - Maria Newman
Food Republic: If our summer drinks issue has inspired you to give your gin and tonic an overhaul, here are 10 American gins worth giving a spin. - Jeff Gordinier 
: The restaurant critic Tejal Rao, who resigned from her post at the troubled weekly this week, files her final Voice review, of Wylie Dufresne's Alder. - Robert Simonson
: This small university in Kennesaw, Ga. has been named "Innovator of the Year" by the National Restaurant Association, beating out the Walt Disney Parks and the United States Air Force, among others, for the title. The group cited the university's "robust organic 'Farm-to-Campus-to-Farm' program, water reclamation, aerobic digestion, composting/recycling programs, oil-to-biodiesel conversion" and more. - Julia Moskin
The Financial Times: Tim Hayward waxes nostalgic about waiters who mastered tableside cooking in fancy restaurants of old. Ah, for a properly flambéed crêpes suzette. - Melissa Clark
Quartz: A company in Austin, Tex., has received a grant from NASA to develop a 3-D printer that could help solve world hunger. It is developing a prototype for a universal food synthesizer that will make food with an extended shelf life for space travel, and pizza will be an early product. The engineer working on the project has already created a food printer that prints with chocolate. (Tip from @nycjim) - Maria Newman
Matching Food and Wine: Fiona Beckett discusses the versatility of sherry with food, including deep-fried sweetbreads and smoked eel, just so's you know. - Eric Asimov
: Hospital emergency visits involving energy drinks have doubled, and the city of San Francisco has sued a maker of high-caffeine drinks that markets to children. So the Food and Drug Administration is investigating the proliferating caffeination of a host of food products. - Glenn Collins 
: The New York food community rallies to help victims of the Oklahoma tornado. - Maria Newman
Afar: Horse sausage, fermented camel's milk, hand-pulled noodles, alabaster-hued honey. John T. Edge travels to Kazakhstan. - Jeff Gordinier 
Wine Spectator: What is the best road forward for Beaujolais, seeking to recover from the Nouveau hangover and a particularly bad 2012 vintage? Make better wines, Matt Kramer asserts, with reason. - Eric Asimov
Serious Eats: A conversation with Sarah Simmons of City Grit on the economic and other realities of hosting a culinary salon: "It's not a Pollyanna world," she said. - Melissa Clark
: Beyond the strategic business merger of GrubHub and Seamless - the online food-delivery leaders - is a push to maximize restaurant rating and reviewing, and to collect information on diners - a sharp thrust at Yelp, TripAdvisor and other nonretail review sites. Think: Amazon.com - Glenn Collins 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (69%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); AIR FORCES (62%); SPACE EXPLORATION (60%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (58%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); BIOFUELS (50%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%)

COMPANY: FERRERO SPA (71%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); WALT DISNEY CO (53%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



726 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Despite Risks, Brazil Courts the Millisecond Investor

BYLINE: DAN HORCH and NATHANIEL POPPER


HIGHLIGHT: The S&#227;o Paulo stock exchange is trying to accommodate high-speed traders, even as regulators around the world are skeptical of the sector. 

 BODY:
SÃO PAULO, Brazil - At a time when the mere phrase "high-frequency trading" makes some investors queasy, Brazil's stock exchange is putting out the digital welcome mat.
In recent years, the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange in São Paulo has taken steps to make its market more friendly to high-speed traders, even as many regulators around the world are casting an increasingly skeptical eye on the sector after a series of well-publicized market malfunctions in the United States.
Lawmakers in Canada, Australia and the European Union have been looking at imposing limits on such traders, whose investment time horizons are measured in milliseconds rather than months.
"Given the attention and the political discourse on the perceived dangers of H.F.T., exchanges are very reticent to be aggressive in promoting and attracting high-frequency trading," said Andy Nybo, an analyst at the Tabb Group. 
But in Brazil - as well as in other developing economies like Chile and Mexico - exchanges are actively courting high-speed traders without much resistance from their regulators. The appeal is that the traders can execute thousands of trades a second, resulting in big fees for the exchanges.
The BM&F Bovespa, which closed its open trading pits in 2009 in favor of electronic trading networks, is ramping up efforts to support computerized trading. Last month, the Brazil stock exchange introduced a new lightning-fast computer system, known as Puma, that allows high-speed traders to get in and out of trades more quickly. The exchange has offered these traders discounts since October 2010.
The BM&F Bovespa is "very open about what they are looking to do. They really have been aggressive in welcoming all types of strategies," Mr. Nybo said.
The stocks on the Brazilian exchange are cumulatively worth $1.2 trillion, but the average daily trading volume on the exchange is only about $3.7 billion. In the United States, a single major stock like Apple can trade more than that each day.
The comparatively low volumes are in part a reflection of the relatively limited involvement of high-speed traders, who still only account for about 10.6 percent of all stock trades in Brazil. Although that is up from 8.5 percent in 2012, it is still a fraction of trading in other large global markets. In the United States, such firms dominate a majority of the trading, and in Europe, they are responsible for about 45 percent of the trading, according to Celent, a research and consulting firm.
The Brazilian exchange's push seems like a risky gambit to many critics of the acceleration of American markets over the last decade. High-frequency traders have been accused of using technology to move share prices for their own advantage and to trick traditional investors. They have also taken some of the blame for market mishaps like the "flash crash" in May 2010, when stock indexes dropped nearly 10 percent in less than half an hour.
Wallace C. Turbeville, a senior fellow at Demos, a research group in New York, said most offers made by high-frequency trading firms were "illusory": they exist not to be executed, but to measure, distort and exploit market sentiment, increasing volatility and costs for other investors.
Brazilian executives say they believe they have been able to avoid problems through strict regulation. They are also trying to keep at bay many of the other technological developments that have complicated American and European markets. Brazil has, for instance, banned dark pools, private venues where trades can be executed out of the public eye.
And unlike in the United States, which has 13 public stock exchanges, the BM&F Bovespa remains the only place to trade stocks in Brazil.
Cicero Vieira, the BM&F Bovespa's chief operating officer, said a single trading environment meant computerized trading firms had fewer opportunities for arbitrage - simultaneously selling high in one place and buying low in another - which should keep high-frequency trading from growing past 20 percent or so of total volume.
"When it comes to H.F.T.'s, there is no such thing as zero risk," Mr. Vieira said. "Our philosophy is to contain the impact of errors."
Danielle Tierney, an analyst with the Aite Group, a financial advisory firm in Boston, said that Brazil's tough regulations, including a prohibition on anonymous trading, and its less complicated market structure had helped prevent the problems that have drawn scrutiny in America.
"Risk controls can always fail, but compared to where we were in the U.S. in 2010, Brazil is much better prepared," she said. She added that having a single stock exchange with low trading volume makes it easier to spot problems.
Brazil's market regulator, the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, has so far left regulations governing high-frequency trading to the exchange, but it says it is observing the segment closely.
For the BM&F Bovespa, the push to attract high-speed traders provides a way to keep out competitors. Direct Edge, a United States exchange with close ties to electronic trading desks, has announced that it intends to operate in Brazil. In the United States and Europe, upstart exchanges won market share by being more accommodating to speedy traders.
The BM&F Bovespa is also eager to get the benefits that electronic trading has brought to the United States. Several academic studies have suggested that the competition among the firms has led to smaller differences in the spread between the prices at which traders are willing to buy and sell stocks, making trading cheaper for slower investors.
"That will increase liquidity and reduce spreads and distortions," Mr. Vieira said.
Brazil has been steadily making its systems more hospitable to high-frequency firms. In 2009, the exchange opened the door to more computerized traders by creating a data center that allowed firms to co-locate within a few feet of the exchange's server, cutting down the delays associated with data traveling through fiber optic cables.
Chris Concannon, a partner at the New York-based electronic trading firm Virtu Financial, said that the exchange had worked "very hard at encouraging new participants into the market, both electronic and traditional."
But the exchange ran into the limits of the speed of their own computer systems. The new Puma system cuts the time for order execution to around a single millisecond from 30 while increasing stability and capacity. The technology was developed together with America's largest futures exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The BM&F Bovespa and the CME own 5 percent stakes in each other. Ms. Tierney estimates that Puma cost at least $200 million and perhaps as much as $500 million.
The new technology has been available since 2011 to traders on Brazil's derivatives markets, which BM&F Bovespa also operates, and is scheduled to include the bond market by early next year.
Mr. Concannon said that they had already noticed a "substantial improvement in the exchange performance with these upgrades."
The eagerness of high-speed firms to enter Brazil points to their search for new markets as they experience difficulties in sustaining their profits in the highly competitive United States. Most of the high-speed trading activity has so far come from non-Brazilian firms like Virtu. Brazilian brokers have been winning some of this business and consequently welcoming the developments.
Yet, there are still those who sound caution on these initiatives. Felipe Santos, responsible for electronic trading at the São Paulo fund manager Equitas Investimentos, said that although high-frequency trading might make it easier for everyone to buy and sell stock in big companies, especially the largest ones, it had its limits.
"You cannot create volume out of thin air," he said. "You need real investors, too."

Dan Horch reported from São Paulo, Brazil, and Nathaniel Popper from New York. 
An earlier version of this article misstated the status of Direct Edge's operations in Brazil. The exchange has announced that it intends to operate in Brazil; it is not the case that the firm had filed an application with regulators to do so.

        
Brokerage Firm to Pay $7.5 Million Fine to Regulators
        
Hong Kong Broker Fined for Hyping Undisclosed Trades

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%) BM&F Bovespa; Brazil; Financial Brokers; High-Frequency and Flash Trading; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Sao Paulo (Brazil); Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: BOLSA DE VALORES DE SAO PAULO (BOVESPA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%) Brazil; Sao Paulo (Brazil)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



727 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: The New Liberalism and Its Discontents

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Why it&#8217;s hard to disentangle social diversity from economic stratification. 

 BODY:
In a New Yorker piece pegged to his new book, "The Unwinding," on the trajectory of American life since the 1970s, George Packer offers the following lament for the nation's opportunity lost:
We usually think of greater inclusiveness as a blow struck for equality. But in our time, the stories of greater social equality and economic inequality are unrelated. The fortunes of middle-class Americans have declined while prospects for many women and minorities have risen. There's no reason why they couldn't have improved together-this is what appeared to be happening in the late nineteen-sixties and early seventies. Since then, many women and minorities have done better than in any previous generations, but many others in both groups have seen their lives and communities squeezed by the economic contractions of the past generation. Like almost everything else, the new inclusiveness divides the country into winners and losers. It's been good for those with the education, talent, and luck to benefit from it; for others-in urban cores like Youngstown, Ohio; rural backwaters like Rockingham County, North Carolina; and the exurban slums outside Tampa-inclusiveness remains mostly theoretical. It gives an idea of equality, which makes the reality of inequality even more painful.
This plaint prompted the following rejoinder-cum-rant from Samuel Goldman at The American Conservative: 
In our time, the stories of greater social equality and economic inequality are far from "unrelated". Rather, social inclusion has been used to legitimize economic inequality by means of familiar arguments about meritocracy. According to this view, it's fine that the road from Harvard Yard to Wall Street is paved with gold, so long a few representatives of every religion, color, and sexual permutation manage to complete the journey. Superficial diversity at the top thus provides an moral alibi for the gap between the one percent and the rest.
Did it have to be this way? Packer suggests that it does not, noting that social and economic equality progressed together for a while before diverging in the '70s. But that divergence was not simply an accident. Rather, it was a predictable result of the takeover of Democratic Party by the New Left, which was far more interested in sexual and cultural revolution than in representing unfashionably conservative workers.
Over the next few decades, erstwhile radicals learned that they could get more of what they wanted by cooperating with business than by opposing it. The New Left got affirmative action, relaxed gender norms, and good coffee, while the corporations acquired a new justification for their profits. The libertarianism adopted by many Silicon Valley types is the most rigorous theory of this fusion of inclusiveness and capitalism. But the "social liberalism, fiscal conservatism" popular on Wall Street and at elite universities is a milder and therefore more palatable version of the same idea.
More generally, it is hard for a society characterized by ethnic and cultural pluralism to generate the solidarity required for the redistribution of wealth. People are willing, on the whole, to pay high taxes and forgo luxuries to support those they see as like themselves. They are often unwilling to do so for those who look, sound, or act very differently. In this respect, the affirmations of choice and diversity that now characterize American culture, tend to undermine appeals to collective action or shared responsibility. If we're all equal in our right to live own lives, why should we do much to help each other?
This response was still fresh in my mind when I picked up Packer's latest long-form New Yorker piece, which is in a sense is strikingly responsive to exactly the issues Goldman raises. It's an exploration of the history and culture of Silicon Valley, and how the region has been transformed from the still-middle class place where Packer himself grew up (he graduated high school in Palo Alto in 1978) into "one of the most unequal places in America." The heart of the piece is a portrait, and a critique, of the "fusion of inclusiveness and capitalism" that's the defining Silicon Valley worldview - the mix of meritocratic social liberalism, economic neoliberalism or straight-ahead libertarianism, and better-living-through-technology utopianism that pervades the campuses of Google and Facebook and their imitators, and that helps these masters of the universe reconcile their nominal progressivism with the class-segregated social landscape that their wealth has created. And Packer's thru-line is clearly meant to suggest the possibility of an alternative to these ideas and the arrangements they have fostered: The piece tracks the attempts of various activist-entrepreneurs to reshape Silicon Valley's approach to politics, by encouraging its leaders to focus less on techno-individualism and more on the questions of solidarity and collective action, and it concludes with a favorable account of Mark Zuckerberg's first sustained foray into "the unlovely reality of current American politics." Packer doesn't brim with optimism about a looming reconciliation of social inclusion and economic equality, but he does give Zuckerberg and his allies credit for being willing to step outside the Silicon cloister, to recognize that "innovation" and "disruption" need to coexist with solidarity, and to think seriously about the need for new "national policies" that might create "equal opportunity and upward mobility across generations."
And yet maybe he gives them too much credit. Because what is the "national policy" that prompts the Facebook founder to finally dirty his hands with inside-the-Beltway political debates? Why, comprehensive immigration reform, of course - an idea that's already supported by almost every powerful interest group in America, and that's more likely to be opposed in Packer's "urban cores" and "rural backwaters" and "exurban slums" than by any of the new economy's big winners. Just because powerful people support a policy doesn't make it a bad idea. But given his (appropriately) jaundiced view of Silicon Valley liberaltarianism overall, it's striking how little skepticism Packer shows about Zuckerberg and Co.'s promise that on this issue, Silicon Valley's self-interest just happens to finally align with equal opportunity and upward mobility and various other good things. Especially since it's relatively easy to see mass immigration as a prime example of the phenomenon that Packer elsewhere find troubling - a post-1960s trend that's made America more diverse and inclusive but also more stratified and less solidaristic. In which case, the elite, bipartisan support for accelerating current immigration trends looks like a prime example of the phenomenon Goldman describes in his response - the way the new upper class embraces the "more diversity, less solidarity" bargain because it serves their own self-interest, and any costs are absorbed by people further down the socioeconomic ladder. (Indeed, if you're a tech mogul, the bill that the Senate is currently considering isn't just a proposition that requires no sacrifice on your part; it's a policy shift that arguably reduces your incentive to worry about other domestic social problems, because it makes it easier to look abroad for productive workers if America's families and schools and neighborhoods aren't buoying enough young people upward.)
So Packer's Silicon Valley story, in this sense, feels unintentionally telling. He's criticizing the marriage of social inclusiveness and economic inequality, and trying to map a path toward a different American future. But the path his subjects are eager to take, far from leading back toward solidarity, is actually a perfect example of why the current landscape exists, and how it came to be.

        
The Thatcher Legacy in Full

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); SLUM DWELLINGS (67%) Capitalism (Theory and Philosophy); Liberalism (US Politics); Packer, George; Silicon Valley (Calif)

PERSON: Packer, George

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (84%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



728 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Rail)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: 1963 Kentucky Derby: Chateaugay's Big Day

BYLINE: LESLIE KNAUF


HIGHLIGHT: In 1963, a horse named for a small upstate New York town led the field under the wire in the 89th Kentucky Derby. 

 BODY:
While the touted and much-deserving colt, Orb, took home the roses in the 139th Kentucky Derby, many New Yorkers understandably leaned toward Verrazano, the colt that won the Wood Memorial at Aqueduct in early April. They may be forgiven a somewhat provincial affection for a horse named for the bridge over the narrows linking Staten Island and Brooklyn, but the main span of that landmark structure across the gateway to the Hudson River and New York's harbor hadn't been completed in 1963 when another horse - one named for a small upstate New York town - led the field under the wire in the 89th Kentucky Derby.
Chateaugay, a chestnut son of Swaps, was bred in Kentucky by the Ohio sportsman and real estate magnate John W. Galbreath at his Darby Dan Farm in Lexington, Ky. Galbreath named the colt for the town and nearby Lake Chateaugay by the Canadian border where, years earlier, he was involved in post-World War II economic development efforts to help revitalize struggling small communities. 
Galbreath's business success provided the resources for him to continue to indulge his lifelong love of horses and a quest that, by 1963, had become a 30-year effort to breed and race the finest thoroughbreds in the land. Chateaugay was Galbreath's first Kentucky Derby entry and the first Darby Dan homebred to compete in a Triple Crown race. 
The colt's dam was Banquet Bell, a daughter of Native Dancer's sire Polynesian, which made him a full brother to Galbreath's champion filly, Primonetta. While not quite as precocious as his older sister, who was undefeated at 2, Chateaugay had notched two wins in five starts as a juvenile before embarking on the Triple Crown trail in early 1963.
Trained by James P. Conway, who was known as Jimmy, Chateaugay made his way to Louisville, Ky., by way of a pair of victories in allowance races in Florida and Kentucky, respectively, followed by a win in the Blue Grass Stakes at Keeneland.
Chateaugay's regular rider was Braulio Baeza, a solemn and slender, 23-year-old Panamanian who was instantly recognizable by his unfailingly upright, elegant posture in the saddle. Described by the renowned Sports Illustrated turf writer Whitney Tower as "wondrously gifted," Baeza was as quiet and serious as he was capable in guiding a racehorse. He already had a Belmont Stakes victory to his credit, riding Sherluck to spoil Carry Back's bid for the Triple Crown in 1961. 
I recall vividly that my late mother, who was a savvy observer of racing in New York, was a big fan of Baeza's riding. I'm not sure if she admired him for his success on the track, his striking appearance on a horse, his quiet demeanor or all of those qualities, but she instinctively knew back in 1963 that he was a rider worth watching. So watch him we did as he piloted Chateaugay against a nine-horse Derby field that included two other impressive colts from the East Coast: the 2-year-old champion from Cain Hoy Stable Never Bend with Manuel Ycaza riding, who won the Flamingo Stakes at Hialeah, and Greentree Stable's speedster No Robbery who'd won the Wood Memorial with John Rotz aboard. 
None of those three horses had been defeated that spring, but lining up in the gate with them at Churchill Downs was Candy Spots, a solid California invader ridden by Bill Shoemaker. A flashy chestnut with unusual white markings on his rump and gaskin, Candy Spots was bred and owned by Rex C. Ellsworth, who also bred, owned and raced Swaps, the 1955 Kentucky Derby winner, before he eventually sold the horse as a stallion for $2 million - to John Galbreath.
Candy Spots, who'd won both the Santa Anita and Florida derbies that spring, was the heavy favorite at post time in Louisville, with No Robbery as the second choice, followed by Never Bend and Patrice Jacobs's Bonjour, winner of the Derby Trial. Despite his victory in the Blue Grass, Chateaugay was sent off as the fifth choice at 9-1.
Breaking from the inauspicious No. 1 post, Baeza took Chateaugay back early in an effort to save something for the crucial last quarter-mile, while Never Bend quickly sprinted to the front. No Robbery quickly followed, and just behind that pair was an uncharacteristically unruly Candy Spots, who nearly ran up on No Robbery's heels before Shoemaker was able to steady and settle him.
The order remained unchanged through the backstretch, but the maneuvering soon began as horses entered the far turn. The pacesetter Never Bend still held the lead, but No Robbery, who was known for bearing out in earlier races, began to tire, while Candy Spots remained in third.
Cruising along patiently with Chateaugay in sixth place, Baeza soon swung the colt to the outside on the turn. By the time the field hit the quarter pole, Baeza had shifted Chateaugay into high gear, deftly moving him between horses at the top of the stretch to take aim at Never Bend. Gradually wearing him down, Chateaugay drew clear of Never Bend by a length and a quarter at the finish, with Candy Spots, who never really fired, in third. On My Honor, a 30 to 1 long shot who had trailed the field, closed swiftly to nab fourth place from No Robbery, who faded to fifth.
With the victory on Chateaugay, Baeza became the first foreign-born jockey to win the Kentucky Derby. He guided the chestnut back to the infield winner's circle, where the colt promptly showed his disdain for red roses, leaping and wheeling when attempts were made to place the obligatory blanket of flowers over his withers. 
"You never forget that," Baeza observed when we spoke about his Derby-winning experience by phone recently. "He jumped around, but I stayed on. I wasn't going to come off then!"
Despite his antics, Baeza characterized Chateaugay as a kind horse, and the colt soon was shipped to Pimlico for the Preakness Stakes. Memories of that contest prompted the former jockey's only expression of regret about his 1963 Triple Crown experience as he recalled the blistering one-mile workout Chateaugay had clocked just two days before the Preakness.
"He got away from the rider," Baeza lamented. "He wanted to run back to the barn or something. Mr. Galbreath wanted to know if the horse was hurt. He wasn't hurt, but we told Mr. Galbreath he wouldn't win. He already ran his race," he recalled.
Baeza added: "Since the horse wasn't injured, Mr. Galbreath said 'We'll run.' We ran, and he got tired, but we were second."
Chateaugay finished three and one-quarter lengths behind Candy Spots, but the colt firmly redeemed himself three weeks later in the Belmont Stakes. Run at Aqueduct while the Belmont Park grandstand was being reconstructed, Chateaugay led Candy Spots by two and one-half lengths to claim two of the Triple Crown's three jewels. With two more stakes wins added to his stretch of classic victories, Chateaugay was named the year's 3-year-old champion.
Chateaugay continued to race at ages 4 and 5, but he never quite regained his earlier form. He was retired to stud at Darby Dan Farm, where he sired four stakes winners in his first crop as a stallion. In 1971, he became the first Kentucky Derby winner to be sent to Japan for stud duty. He remained in Japan from 1972 to 1985 and sired the 1981 Japanese 2-year-old champion, Hokuto Flag, before his death there at age 25.
Baeza's successful career continued through the 1960's and early 1970's as he rode numerous champions to victory, including Buckpasser, Dr. Fager, and Arts and Letters, with whom he won his third Belmont Stakes in 1969. The nation's leading rider in earnings from 1965 through 1969, Baeza was inducted into the National Museum of Racing's Hall of Fame in Saratoga Springs in 1976, but retired soon after, having amassed 4,013 winners during his 21 years in the saddle in Panama and the U.S. Now 73 and the only surviving member of Chateaugay's Kentucky Derby-winning team, Baeza remains active as a racing official at Louisiana Downs and Hialeah Park.
Jimmy Conway continued to train for Darby Dan Farm until 1966, when he resumed operation of a public stable. Active in racing for 38 years until his death in 1984 from illness at age 73, Conway was posthumously inducted into racing's Hall of Fame in 1996.
John W. Galbreath died in 1988 in Ohio at age 90, but not before celebrating a second Kentucky Derby win in 1967 with Proud Clarion, another Darby Dan homebred. In 1974, Galbreath's Little Current captured the famed Preakness trophy that previously had eluded him.
Darby Dan Farm remains one of the country's pre-eminent breeding farms under the leadership of Galbreath's grandson, John Phillips, who continues to race homebreds with his family members under the Phillips Racing Partnership colors. Phillips characterized his grandfather's reaction to Chateaugay's Kentucky Derby victory as "an amazing and wonderful thrill that he shared with the entire family," when we spoke by phone recently.
"He loved horses, and, while he wouldn't necessarily have put it this way, it really marked his 'graduation' into racing's elite." 
It was a fitting accolade that could accurately be applied to all of those connected with Chateaugay's decisive Derby victory.
As for my mother, her enthusiasm for Baeza's and Chateaugay's success took a more colorful and creative turn later that year, when she fashioned a very special Halloween costume for her then 9-year-old, budding-horsewoman daughter. 
With riding breeches and boots, a black velvet-covered hunt cap, a dark brown turtleneck sweater and a pale pink - almost fawn-colored - sleeveless blouse all readily available in my closet, my mother cleverly layered the blouse over the turtleneck. On the left front panel of the blouse she applied the distinctive interlocked "DD" logo of Darby Dan Farm that she'd meticulously cut out of a patch of chocolate brown iron-on fabric. 
I'm sure the significance of my lovingly homemade costume that replicated the racing silks of that year's Kentucky Derby-winning jockey was totally lost on the neighbors whose doorbells I rang that Halloween night in 1963, but my mother and I both knew it was all about Chateaugay - the horse named for that small town in northern New York - his stylish rider, and their big day in May.
An earlier version of this post incorrectly stated that Chateaugay went undefeated his 3-year-old season and misidentified who was holding the bridle at right. It was the owner John W. Galbreath, not the trainer James P. Conway.

        
An Old-School Touch and a Dash of Superstition
        
Orb Stays Loose in Mud as Preakness Field Comes Together
        
Taking Stock of the Emerging Preakness Field
        
A Wire-to-Wire Ride on the America's Best Racing Bus
        
I'll Have Another's Triumphs Put to Song

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); HORSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Baeza, Braulio; Chateaugay; Conway, James P; Horse Racing; Kentucky Derby; Triple Crown (Horse Racing)

PERSON: Baeza, Braulio; Conway, James P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013



729 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Food Company and Farmers Union Back Changes to Aid Program

BYLINE: RON NIXON


HIGHLIGHT: One of the world&#8217;s largest food companies offered its support on Wednesday for changes to the way the United States provides food aid to developing countries, adding critical agribusiness backing for President Obama&#8217;s overhaul plans. 

 BODY:
One of the world's largest food companies offered its support on Wednesday for changes to the way the United States provides food aid to developing countries, adding critical agribusiness backing for President Obama's plans to overhaul the program.
While not explicitly endorsing the proposals advocated by Mr. Obama, which include buying some food from local producers rather than from farmers in the United States, Cargill, based in Minnesota, said that changes needed to be made to the program because conditions have evolved since it was created in 1954. Not the least of those changes is that there are now more than 870 million people worldwide who lack sufficient food. 
"Cargill believes it is time we reassess the program to make certain it is efficient and effective in meeting the increasing needs and allow for some flexibility in the delivery of a portion of food aid assistance so that food can get more quickly to people on the brink of starvation," the company said in a statement on Wednesday.
Cargill is a major player in the food aid program, involved in trading, processing and transporting agricultural commodities like grains. 
The company's support for overhauling the program came as a major farm group also called for more flexibility.
The National Farmers Union - the second largest farmer organization in the United States, behind the Farm Bureau - expressed its support for more flexibility in the food aid program in an opinion article published on the agriculture Web site Agri-Pulse.
"Our food system has changed drastically in the past 50 years; naturally, our system of international aid must evolve as well," wrote Roger Johnson, president of the farmers union. "Ultimately, if we truly want to end global food insecurity, we must consider what is going to best serve local farmers and local economies - especially in areas of the world that suffer from hunger."
The Obama administration welcomed the calls for reform.
"The recent support from Cargill and the National Farmers Union underscores how the president's proposal will maintain the vital role of American agriculture in food aid," said Rajiv Shah, administrator of the Agency for International Development. "We have seen growing momentum behind this proposal and the need to modernize our food assistance programs to address today's challenges, become more flexible and save more lives with maximum efficiency."
Supporters of the plan also welcomed the statements from the farm union and the grain company.
"The calls from the National Farmers Union and Cargill for reform to U.S. food aid programs signal strong momentum for reform and shatter the myth that American agricultural interests are unified in their opposition to reform," said Eric Munoz, senior policy adviser at Oxfam America, an international charity. "Leaders in Congress should seize this momentum and have the courage to push forward efforts to achieve real food aid reform this year."
The Senate and House Agriculture Committees have made some changes to the food aid program, but have opposed plans by Mr. Obama to rework it fundamentally, saying that doing so would hurt United States farmers.
Last week, the House Foreign Affairs Committee introduced its own bill to overhaul the food aid program. Sponsored by the committee's chairman, Representative Ed Royce, Republican of California, and Representative Karen Bass, Democrat of California, the legislation would make changes to the program that generally follow those laid out by the Obama administration.
In addition to buying food locally, the administration is proposing that the food aid program be moved from the Agriculture Department to the foreign aid budget. It also wants to end the controversial practice of food aid "monetization," in which Washington gives American-grown grains to international charities. The groups then sell the products on the market in poor countries and use the money to finance their antipoverty programs.

        
Obama to Travel to Oklahoma to Inspect Tornado Damage and Meet With Victims
        
The Early Word: Pre-Existing Conditions
        
Obama to Visit Sub-Saharan Africa in June
        
White House Aide Calls Criticism of Obama 'Offensive'
        
In Manhattan, Obama Tells Supporters That He Intends to Govern

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (94%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (93%); FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STARVATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CHARITIES (73%); GRAIN MARKETS (71%) Agriculture and Farming; Cargill Inc; Food Aid; National Farmers Union; Obama, Barack; United States Politics and Government; Congress; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Cargill Inc; National Farmers Union

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



730 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Fact-Check: Three Claims in Weiner's Mayoral Announcement Video

BYLINE: DAVID M. HALBFINGER


HIGHLIGHT: In his announcement that he is running for mayor, Anthony D. Weiner describes himself as a force to be reckoned with on three key issues. But while Mr. Weiner was known as a fighter, he was not so well known for making a difference. 

 BODY:
To hear him tell it as a newly declared candidate for mayor, former Representative Anthony D. Weiner was a force to be reckoned with on three of the most important issues to New Yorkers: public safety, affordable health insurance and treatment for rescue workers sickened at the site of the World Trade Center attack. "We can make a difference - if we're willing to fight for it," he says in his video announcement on YouTube. But while Mr. Weiner was known as a fighter, he was not so well known for making a difference. 
ON SCREEN Mr. Weiner is shown with his wife and baby; in a childhood snapshot with friends; and at news conferences as a congressman. These images alternate with shots of a Manhattan street, subways and bridges, houses and apartments, and mothers wheeling children in strollers. He addresses the camera outside his childhood home, his elementary school and a corner pizzeria, and is shown speaking with police officers, small-business owners, doctors and old people. The ad closes with his wife, Huma Abedin, smilingly at his side. 
ACCURACY Much of the video is devoted to reintroducing Mr. Weiner to New Yorkers as a product of a decidedly middle-class upbringing, as one of two working parents sharing responsibility for their son, and as someone concerned about the challenges facing middle-class New Yorkers today. But the video does highlight three elements of Mr. Weiner's Congressional record.
In voice-over, for one, he boasts that "I got a billion dollars to put more cops on the beat." It is true that Mr. Weiner tried for years to revive a Clinton-era program that let local police departments apply for grants to hire more officers. The 2009 economic stimulus package contained $1 billion to do just that, although Mr. Weiner was not among its initial sponsors. But while viewers of the video might reasonably assume that at least some of those new officers were "on the beat" in New York, in fact the money bypassed the city in favor of places with higher crime rates and weaker economies. Mr. Weiner was left to express "outrage" that New York was "left out in the cold."
Mr. Weiner next says he "fought to get sick 9/11 first responders the help they deserved." The legislation to pay for medical care for rescue workers sickened at the site of the World Trade Center attack took years to make it past Republican opposition. In the House, that push was led by Carolyn B. Maloney and Jerrold Nadler, both New York Democrats, and Peter T. King, a New York Republican. Mr. Weiner, while passionate, was not a major force in the deal making. "This thing took a lot of bipartisan effort, and that wasn't a hallmark of Anthony Weiner's," said Robert Livingston, a Republican lobbyist for trade center contractors. Indeed, Mr. Weiner drew enormous attention to the issue - and to himself - by erupting in a furious tirade against Mr. King that other New York Democrats saw as needlessly damaging to a delicate effort to line up Republican support.
Finally, Mr. Weiner says he "led the campaign for real health reform that regular people can afford." Mr. Weiner did speak out for a single-payer, "Medicare-for-all" health care system, and was sharply critical of President Obama's decision not to pursue it. But this "campaign" was unsuccessful. Here again, Mr. Weiner's go-it-alone style in Congress - and his razor-sharp verbal bite - earned him hours of television airtime and a national following among liberals, but little else to show for it.
SCORECARD The video works hard to soften Mr. Weiner's sharper edges, contain the radioactivity of his humiliating exit from politics a few years ago by referring to it only briefly in a higher-minded context, and make it easier for middle-class New Yorkers to relate to him - something that he would not have had to work so hard at a few years ago. Making the case that Mr. Weiner is the most qualified person to be the next mayor will apparently have to wait.

        
Weiner's Defenders and His Critics Stand Their Ground
        
Contributions Piling Up in Race for Mayor
        
For Quinn, Weiner Is the Possible Candidate Who Must Not Be Named
        
No Stranger to Scandal, Spitzer Says Weiner 'Can Come Back'
        
With the Circus, as Weiner Steps Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CRIME RATES (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (53%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) House of Representatives; New York City; Reform and Reorganization; Weiner, Anthony D; NYC 2013

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (94%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); PETER T KING (58%) Weiner, Anthony D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013



731 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: In a Plus for Electrics, Tesla Repays a Big Federal Loan Early

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The company, using money it raised last week in the markets, is repaying the government nine years before its loan was due. 

 BODY:
The taxpayer no longer has to worry about Tesla Motors.
Tesla, the maker of electric cars, paid off a $465 million loan on Wednesday that the Energy Department made in 2010. The repayment is a lift to the Obama administration, whose clean-energy loan programs faced criticism after the collapse of Solyndra, the solar panel maker. The company, using money it raised last week in the markets, is repaying the government nine years before its loan was due.
 "Today's repayment is the latest indication that the Energy Department's portfolio of more than 30 loans is delivering big results for the American economy while costing far less than anticipated," Ernest Moniz, the energy secretary, said in a statement. 
Tesla's payment will be the latest source of excitement to its supporters. But whether Tesla remains a good advertisement for government aid partly depends on how the company now performs. Should Tesla falter badly, it will only highlight the risks of lending to experimental companies.
Electric car enthusiasts have rushed to buy its main product, the Model S, a high-priced luxury sedan. Tesla also has plenty of fans in the markets, where investors who have piled into the company's shares, in the belief that Tesla will find plenty of buyers for its cars.
Elon Musk, who co-founded and leads Tesla, issued a statement thanking the Energy Department, Congress and taxpayers for the loan. "I hope we did you proud," he said.
After the demise of Solyndra in 2011, government efforts to subsidize clean-energy companies came in for special scrutiny. Mitt Romney included Tesla in a batch of companies he called "losers" during last year's presidential contest.
Tesla's exit from the government loan may now refresh the debate over how much support to give young, clean-energy firms.
"Tesla is repaying early and it's a great vindication," said Greg Kats, president of Capital-E, a firm that invests in clean-energy companies. "Tesla has really helped push the Big Three automakers down the energy efficiency track."
The Energy Department on Wednesday said that losses on its loans were equivalent to 2 percent of its $34 billion portfolio.
Tesla has not fully weaned itself from government support. Buyers of Tesla cars can get substantial tax credits that reduce the purchase price. After a $7,500 tax credit, the lowest-cost Model S is $62,400.
The company is also able to generate large amounts of revenue from selling green energy credits to other automakers. Morgan Stanley estimates that Tesla can cover its capital expenditures this year from selling those credits.
Tesla was able to pay back the loan all at once because it took advantage of a meteoric rise in its stock price. Its soaring share prices helped it raise approximately $1 billion in the market last week by selling new stock and debtlike securities.
"The reason the loan is being paid off is not because of vehicle sales," said Patrick J. Michaels, a director at the Cato Institute, a libertarian-leaning research group.
Tesla started delivering the Model S to consumers earlier this year and expects to sell 21,000 cars in all of 2013. But it is not clear whether the initial burst of demand for its sedan was merely the result of enthusiasts rushing to get their cars. Skeptics doubt the market is as big as the company projects, and expect the shares to plunge when that becomes apparent. While Tesla has made ambitious targets for selling cars, its more immediate financial projections seem less impressive. It recently suggested that cash flows from its operations might not be positive in the second quarter and it seemed to forecast a drop in North American sales in the second half of the year.
One perceived weakness in Tesla's plans is the relative expense of the Model S. The company may face only limited demand until it comes up with a substantially cheaper car.
"They are going to have to have a vehicle that costs much less than $100,000," Mr. Michaels said.
Though Tesla is on an upswing now, the Energy Department appeared to have some concerns about the company during the life of the loan. In several instances, the department softened the conditions of the loan. These amendments to important covenants might have allowed Tesla to avoid falling into a default, which could have been embarrassing for the Energy Department after the collapse of Solyndra.
Defenders of the amendments say it is common for investors to change the terms of financing for young companies. Also, the changes show that the Energy Department spotted that Tesla had potential and was wise to make the adjustments.
"Tesla is arguably making the most exciting car in the world today," said Mr. Kats, who worked in the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. "This loan program has exceeded expectations."

        
Bid for Cash by Tesla Motors Is Likely to Energize Company and Critics Alike
        
Tesla's Disappearing Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (91%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); HYBRID VEHICLES (73%); SEDANS (73%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Energy Department; Federal Aid (US); Tesla Motors Inc; Tesla Motors Inc|TSLA|NASDAQ; Autos; I.P.O./Offerings; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (92%); SOLYNDRA INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Energy Department; Tesla Motors Inc

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (92%); MS (NYSE) (51%) Tesla Motors Inc; TSLA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



732 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: Kill Bill

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political techniques may have changed, but lobbyists still deliver a terrific return on investment. 

 BODY:
United Republic, a liberal-leaning campaign finance reform organization dedicated to reducing the influence of money in American politics, recently produced a striking graphic that illustrates how corporate America wins huge breaks from Congress at very little cost.
According to statistics United Republic assembled, the prescription drug industry spent $116 million lobbying for legislation to prevent Medicare from bargaining down drug prices - legislation that enabled drug companies to make an additional $90 billion annually. That amounts to an extraordinary 77,500 percent return on investment. Oil companies, in turn, had a return on investment of 5,900 percent, and multinational companies, 22,000 percent. 
While the general public may be angered by these reports, the lobbying industry loves them: what could be better publicity for attracting new clients? For example, the Carmen Group, a Washington lobbying firm, boasted on its Web site that for every dollar it collected in fees, clients got $100 in benefits.

Many studies demonstrate the profitability of lobbying. A Sunlight Foundation analysis of 200 corporations found that companies investing heavily in lobbying paid lower tax federal rates. According to Sunlight, seven of the eight companies that invested the most in lobbying between 2007 and 2009 (Figure 2) saw their tax rates lowered, and six of the eight saw rate declines of at least seven percentage points. In contrast, the median tax rate decline among all 200 companies was 0.6 percentage points:
One key advantage for corporate America in having a network of savvy lobbyists is its ability to capitalize quickly on unexpected developments. In a forthcoming book that he provided to The Times, Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the Sunlight Foundation and an adjunct professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University and at the University of California, District of Columbia, writes that propitious circumstances like these can arise out the blue:
It is also the case that opportunities come all of a sudden as well. Take the 2004 American Jobs Creation Act. What began as a simple fix to resolve a subsidy dispute with the World Trade Organization eventually evolved into a 633-page bill full of changes to the U.S. tax code. Those companies and industries whose lobbyists were well-placed were able to get their favored provisions into a bill that The Economist magazine dubbed "No lobbyist left behind."
According to Drutman, with whom I exchanged a number of e-mails, a study in The Journal of Law and Politics, "Measuring Rates of Return for Lobbying Expenditures," estimated that "companies that lobbied on the [jobs] bill got a return of 22,000 percent on their investment, $220 in benefits for every $1 spent on lobbying."
Drutman points out that this "highlights that all a company needs is one American Jobs Creation Act every now and then to more than make up for a substantial amount of lobbying that goes nowhere. And because one never knows when such a 'Christmas tree' bill will come along, it pays to be in the game."
Lobbying, Drutman says, is simply 
an investment strategy. What matters is not your win rate, but rather your net gain. So you could lose nine small battles, but win the one battle where most is at stake, and come out more than ahead.
Citing AT&T's plans in 2012 - when it listed its intent to lobby 148 bills, using 63 firms, and a total of at least 228 lobbyists - Drutman notes that "Most of the time it doesn't succeed. But even if it succeeds just once, that one victory may be worth the entire cost of lobbying by multiples." All that's needed "is one small change to the tax code, or one extension of an expiring tax break, and you easily make back the cost of a lobbying budget if you are a large company.By definition, lobbying is an arcane, almost obscure, investment strategy. In the first chapter of his forthcoming book, Drutman reaches down into the depths:
Companies that engage in politics are seeking to purchase something (a policy outcome) for a price (their campaign contributions and lobbying budgets). Politics, however, is a very messy marketplace. It is more like a byzantine bazaar, in which one never knows what will be for sale, and in which the merchandise comes and goes unpredictably. Prices are unmarked and ever changing. One must pay a price just to enter. The goods are frequently obscure and their value is often unknown ahead of time - it is only upon learning what one has actually purchased that one can determine the value of it. One's access to the goods depends on relationships with the merchants, and relationships take time to build. Often goods are sold as part of an auction in which losing bidders have to forfeit their bids. Such a market may not be for the inexperienced and uninitiated. At the very least, the inexperienced will need a guide.
The intricacies and unpredictability of the legislative process have put a premium on the lobbying value of well-connected former Congressional staffers who know the political marketplace and have personal ties to key players.
In a 2011 paper, "Revolving Door Lobbyists," Jordi Blanes i Vidal, Mirko Draca and Christian Fons-Rosen, all from the Center for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics, write:
The relation between clients and connected lobbyists in the U.S. federal lobbying industry can be regarded as a market for political connections (arguably the largest in the world) in which companies or interest groups can acquire indirect links to serving politicians by hiring their former employees.
The value of former staffers is directly proportional to their strength of their connections: 
Staffers' political connections are a perishable asset; in other words, they last only as long as the connected politicians remain holding office. This implies that staffers may have relatively short careers. Once a connection to a powerful senator has been established, it may make sense to move into lobbying and cash in this unique asset while it is still valuable.
According to the L.S.E. researchers, a lobbyist with ties to a senator produces, on average, an additional $182,000 per year more revenue than colleagues without ties to a member of the House or the Senate. The value of the connection disappears immediately, however, when the member retires or gets defeated - "lobbying revenue generated by ex-staffers drops by a very large percentage," especially in the case of "lobbyists connected to senators serving on the Finance and Appropriations Committees," who "suffer losses in revenue of 36 percent and 31 percent respectively when those senators leave office."
Some of the most detailed research on what lobbyists do has been conducted by the Collaborative Research Project on Lobbying and Policy Advocacy, financed by the National Science Foundation. This is a major, multiyear academic study of the process of lobbying and policy making in Washington. In a 2009 book based on data generated by the project, "Lobbying and Policy Change: Who Wins, Who Loses, and Why," Frank Baumgartner of the University of North Carolina and four colleagues found that the side with more lobbyists who previously served in government prevailed 63 percent of the time.
I asked a prominent Democratic lobbyist with just over $3 million in annual billings - who requested anonymity to avoid alienating his clients - about the difference between trying to win legislation and trying to block it.
"It's significantly easier to block and impede," he said. 
Congress is built to have multiple decision makers - members, leadership, differing committees, scores of staff - involved in the process, and it is a bicameral legislature, with two bites at the apple. So, the opportunities to raise questions, point out problems and flaws and essentially deter forward movement are numerous.
Over the course of four years, the Collaborative Research Project monitored 98 issues that had both support and opposition. Team researchers found that in the case of 57 of the 98 issues, lobbying resulted in "no policy change"; on 13 issues they found that "the policy change that occurred was relatively small"; and on 27 issues lobbying "had a large impact on a targeted population." Killing a bill, quashing it before it comes out of committee or otherwise impeding its enactment preserves the status quo.
Baumgartner and his colleagues conclude that
the most consistent finding throughout our book is that defenders of the status quo get what they want: no change. In spite of millions of dollars often spent on all the latest lobbying techniques and the involvement of some of the nation's most powerful corporations, consultants and political leaders, most lobbying campaigns end in a stand-off, the status quo policy remaining in place.
The main function of agribusiness lobbyists, for example, is to preserve the status quo throughout the process of reauthorizing the Farm Bill, which covers five years. Their most important task is to preserve the network of subsidies and import restrictions that protect domestic commodities, from sugar to milk to peanuts, from foreign competition.
Similarly, the National Rifle Association's major victory this year was not enacting a favored bill but killing legislation that would require expanded background checks for gun purchasers.
Nathaniel Persily, a law professor and political scientist at Columbia, summed up the situation in an e-mail to The Times: "The greatest impact of lobbying is the most difficult to calculate: namely, preventing legislation from ever getting to the floor."
Despite the reforms that have been aimed at them over the past few decades, lobbyists have become a semi-permanent class with ever-expanding reach - they write legislation, they kill legislation. They have usurped many of the political functions that once belonged to elected officials, in part by adapting to new political ecologies faster than those who seek to counter their influence.
Insofar as they are protecting the status quo, lobbyists insulate calcified interest groups from challenge. They put up roadblocks that become ever-higher barriers to innovation. At a time when sectors of the economy ranging from health care to education to manufacturing are under more or less permanent siege, the tentacles of the lobbying community are choking off open exchange between officeholders and the voters they represent. They have created and now maintain a stifling stasis. It is hard to see how this ends well.

        
The Shadow Lobbyist
        
The Power of Loss
        
The Civil War's War on Fraud
        
E Pluribus Me
        
Days of the Jackals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (92%); LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TAX LAW (77%); MEDICARE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); DRUG PRICES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WEB SITES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%) Law and Legislation; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Persily, Nathaniel; Senate; Sunlight Foundation; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: Senate; Sunlight Foundation

PERSON: Persily, Nathaniel

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



733 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Less Ab, More Flab

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
Five middle-aged men were seated in a clinical gray conference room to discuss the latest advertising campaign for 2(x)ist, an underwear label famous for plastering aggressive images of hyper-ripped, nearly naked men on bus shelters and phone kiosks just about everywhere.
Among them were Joey Harary, the president of the Morét Group, a company that acquired 2(x)ist in 1995 and is to skivvies what LVMH is to couture; the designer Jason Scarlatti; two marketing executives; and James LaForce, whose fashion public relations firm has been hired to take the label in a direction that is ''more aloof'' and ''not so intimidating.''
A video playing in the background showed behind-the-scenes moments from a recent photo shoot, where a lithe young man, Lasse Hansen, described his journey from serving in the Danish Navy to landing a big-time modeling career in New York City.
''I like the quiet life,'' he said. He wears a robe in most of the scenes, his modesty intact. 
''We describe it this way,'' said Mr. Scarlatti, a winsome, precisely scruffy designer who also works part-time as a comedian. ''We are going for something a little more statuesque, and a little less steroid-y.''
Mr. LaForce interjected, ''We are giving the models an identity, so they are not just a piece of meat.''
Vic Drabicky, the founder of January Digital, who is consulting on the company's online business, got to the point: ''We are taking the focus off the crotch shots.''
It should be emphasized, right up front, that 2(x)ist is a company that has long held a strict ''no stuffing'' policy when it comes to advertisements. Only last October, the company staged a runway show of hot guys in their underwear, hosted and ogled by Jenny McCarthy.
Sex sells, you know, and nowhere is this truer than in the booming business of briefs, where the imagery has followed an ever-more-provocative and chiseled trajectory since Marky Mark dropped trou for Calvin Klein in 1992. Things have become so raunchy now that the marketing for a sizable niche of underwear brands bears a marked resemblance to gay pornography (see, or please don't if you are prudish, labels like Andrew Christian, Papi, Baskit, Rufskin and, for a very particular man, Nasty Pig).
At 2(x)ist, and elsewhere in the underwear market, there was a growing sentiment that the models were getting to be, well, too sexy, at least to be relatable to a new breed of fashion customer: the average heterosexual man.
Thus, the change in campaign direction, which shows models (still attractive, shirtless and depilated, mind you) in lifestyle situations like exercising on a beach, often turned slightly away from the camera. The company is also creating a series of online videos that show the products in a more artistic light, including the one with Mr. Hansen, and another using dancers from the Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet.
The focus here, it should be noted, is more on the packaging than the package. And that is also the message coming from some new underwear brands, like MeUndies and Mack Weldon, that are hiring models of less conventional beauty. Reacting to what is perceived to be a case of abs fatigue among male shoppers, these companies are resisting the notion that a model has to look like Matthew Terry, the one from the Calvin Klein Super Bowl commercial, to move products off the shelves.
Flint and Tinder, another new collection taking an artisanal approach, rarely uses models in its marketing, which is more focused on the fact that the underwear is American made. ''You don't need to see a picture of a half-naked man to get a feeling of how a product is going to work for you,'' said Jake Bronstein, its founder.
Who'd have guessed that a lot of men are uncomfortable with underwear shopping these days? ''They don't want to see only those plucked-chicken models,'' said Michael Kleinmann, the editor of the blog The Underwear Expert. ''They want models who are somewhat aspirational, and they want to look like the guy in the pictures, but every model can't be blond, hairless and perfect.'' The most common feedback Mr. Kleinmann has heard from readers recently is that they want to see more diversity, including guys with tattoos and guys over the age of 40.
WHETHER UNDERWEAR models are generally getting less sexy, though, depends on your definition of sexy.
''I think a lot of these brands have segregated themselves a bit, and the models they pick are indicative of their targeted demographic,'' said Gregory Sovell, the creative director of the nearly decade-old label C-IN2, and before that the founder of 2(x)ist.
''At one end is a sex party that is basically taken off a porn set out of the Valley,'' Mr. Sovell said, looking at the spectrum from Andrew Christian to Mack Weldon, ''and at the other end, it has a kind of kookiness to it.'' C-IN2 falls somewhere between those extremes, with racier campaigns using well-defined models and athletes, though always in settings where it would be believable to find a guy wearing only underwear (locker rooms or lounging in an apartment). ''Why someone would be standing on a rock in front of the ocean in their underwear, I don't understand,'' Mr. Sovell said.
Underwear was the fastest-growing category of men's wear in 2012, up 13 percent to $2.4 billion, according to NPD Group figures released last month. While economic pundits are quick to theorize that this rise, like rising hemlines or lipstick sales, is indicative of a recovery, it is more likely a result of strong consumer demand for new fashion styles, the neon-bright colors and the trimmer cuts designed to go with ''slim fit'' suits and dress shirts. The 2(x)ist executives can tell from online sales that the top-selling color in South Dakota, for example, is purple. These styles are especially popular with younger shoppers, and maybe those women who still shop for their men, but they are confounding to a large portion of the male population who remembers when buying underwear was easy.
Walk into an underwear department today and you will encounter black 2(x)ist briefs with fuchsia piping from its ''vivid range,'' or white ones with racing stripes, or red Diesel trunks with a dragon painted on one cheek, or Calvin Klein's Pro Stretch Reflex boxer briefs in gunmetal gray or Steel Micro Hip briefs on which the logo waistband is wider than the actual brief. There are few options that could truly be called basics.
''Underwear is a category that has frustrated me for years,'' said Brian Berger, an expat from the world of digital who started Mack Weldon last August, with a direct-to-retail business model similar to that of the online eyewear company Warby Parker. His site offers three styles of underwear, four T-shirts and two sock styles (solid or stripes), and is already generating sales in the low six figures each month. The basic brief costs $19.50.
The appeal of Mack Weldon, a fictitious name that was inspired by the early 1900s sleepwear label Weldon, is that the designs are elegant in their simplicity and functionality, with mesh panels in the areas where guys sweat most, and the colors, like lichen green and a light gray called ''cloud burst,'' are not too crazy. Mike Sharits, the model who wears them in clever animations on the site, may be fatless, but he is just goofy enough, rubbing his belly or tripping out of a pair of trousers, to be relatable. He even has a dusting of chest hair, and sometimes wears glasses.
''It is a departure from the airbrushed guys and the 12-pack abs,'' Mr. Berger said. ''It wasn't a Michelangelo kind of look.''
NOR WOULD YOU SAY that of the guy on the site of MeUndies, an average, almost beefy man seen in a video flossing his teeth while debating with his much more attractive mate about sleeping with her girlfriends, if she were to die. The site is about as unsexy as it gets, with hairy-chested models, some good looking and some who would not get past security at Calvin Klein.
''We're not hiring models from big agencies,'' said Jonathan Shokrian, a founder of the company, which was started in Culver City, Calif., in 2011. ''We want to find people who we feel are good looking and who emphasize the image of the everyday guy.''
MeUndies products are quirky, with $16 briefs in a variety of unconventional colors, in chevron patterns or houndstooth.
''We're never going to be Calvin Klein,'' Mr. Shokrian said. ''This is like American Apparel, but more tasteful.''
Of course, you can't fault Calvin Klein for making the business of underwear so sexy. In fact, it is that company's example of turning a basic into a fashion category that has attracted so many new competitors to the realm. Mr. Kleinmann, the Underwear Expert, estimated that there are more than 300 companies in the market, including many small labels that have started within the last year. Each has its own personality, he said, so buck up, guys, there's something for everyone.
''The bottom line,'' Mr. Kleinmann said, ''is that you just have a lot more options.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A look from the Mack Weldon collection of men's underwear. (E1)
Top, the Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet in underwear by 2(x)ist. Looks from 2(x)ist, before (top) and after (above) the makeover. Below, a look from MeUndies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 YU TSAI FOR 2(X)IST) (E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); MEN (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BALLET (59%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (57%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (57%); LVMH (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (57%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%); DENMARK (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



734 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Plans to Lure Businesses to SUNY Sites

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Who needs the Cayman Islands?
In his latest effort to energize upstate New York's economy, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced a plan on Wednesday to turn large parts of the state university system into ''tax-free'' havens for new businesses opening on their campuses. 
The plan, ''Tax-Free N.Y.,'' will offer college-friendly companies exemptions from a wide variety of state taxes -- including those on sales, property, the income of employees and owners -- for 10 years.
''What do we mean by tax-free?'' asked Mr. Cuomo, at the program's announcement at the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering at the State University at Albany. ''We mean tax-free.''
Mr. Cuomo's plan would effectively open tens of millions of square feet at dozens of SUNY campuses to new businesses without collecting taxes. It would also allow three million square feet of tax-free business at private colleges north of Westchester County, as well as up to 200,000 square feet in zones adjacent to SUNY campuses.
In his announcement, Mr. Cuomo described the eligible business as those ''with a relationship to the academic mission of the university and companies creating new jobs.'' Medical device companies, for example, might find tax havens at SUNY universities with strong medical programs, while schools with strong music programs might attract businesses with an artistic bent.
Not every business would qualify, according to the administration: retail outlets, like Starbucks, would still pay taxes.
The plan was endorsed by leaders on Wednesday and will be taken up before the end of the legislative session in late June. But the praise was not universal, with the Civil Service Employees Union criticizing the plan as ''Cuomonomics,'' and adding that the governor's job creation policies ''have mostly benefited the super wealthy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's ''Tax-Free N.Y.'' plan offers college-friendly companies exemptions from a wide variety of state taxes in an effort to energize upstate New York's economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); RETAILERS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (65%); MEDICAL DEVICES (65%)

COMPANY: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES LIFE INSURANCE CO (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



735 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Facing Uphill Battle, Challenger to Christie Begins TV Ad Campaign

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has raised more than three times as much money as his challenger in his bid for re-election this year, has already run two television advertisements and, according to the latest polls, has approval ratings in the 70 percent range. He would seem well on his way to his goal of winning the election in November by a historic margin, big enough to propel him to the front of the Republican primary for president in 2016. 
Not so fast, his challenger is hoping. The Democrat widely expected to be the nominee, State Senator Barbara Buono, is to begin running her first television ad on Thursday.
Polls show that about 70 percent of voters have no opinion of her, if they know her name. And they show her losing to Mr. Christie by more than 20 percentage points.
Her campaign, however, says it can shrink that gap once people hear her story, of growing up poor and struggling to put herself through college and law school after her father died when she was 19. The 30-second ad tells a bit of that, showing pictures of her father, an Italian immigrant who worked as a supermarket butcher.
Called ''Another New Jersey,'' the ad also tries to take on Mr. Christie's rosy portrayal of his years as governor, pointing out that the state's unemployment rate, which has hovered around 9 percent, is among the highest in the nation, that the state lags behind most others in economic growth, and that net property taxes and college tuitions have gone up under the governor.
''To hear Governor Christie tell it, everything in New Jersey's going just fine,'' the ad begins, before pointing out what is not fine. Ms. Buono, looking at the camera, goes on to talk about the struggle of middle-class families. ''I know that struggle, because I've lived it,'' she says, concluding, ''As your governor, I'll fight to give every New Jersey child the same chance I got.''
Ms. Buono has been running only Internet ads so far; one earlier this week sought to teach people how to pronounce her name (and distinguish her from Sonny Bono, Bono and Andrew M. Cuomo).
Some Democrats had worried whether Ms. Buono (pronounced BWOH-noh) could raise even enough money to compete on television; New Jersey, which Benjamin Franklin described as a barrel tapped on two ends, has no media market of its own, so candidates have to place ads in the expensive New York and Philadelphia markets. And her campaign continues to face an uphill struggle; even if people can figure out how to pronounce her name, Mr. Christie continues to enjoy enormous popularity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (72%); FAMILY (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



736 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Donors Urge Cuomo to Press for Public Financing of State Campaigns

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- As the capital is engulfed in scandals, advocates of campaign finance reform are intensifying their pressure on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, urging him to persuade the Legislature to rewrite state elections law in the hope that change in New York could have an influence nationally.
About 140 major political donors, including more than 50 fund-raisers for President Obama, have signed a letter supporting public financing in New York -- an idea that appears to have no support among the Republicans who share control of the State Senate.
Despite the opposition from Republicans, Democrats and government reformers across the country believe New York presents perhaps their best opportunity for change that could have a national impact as they seek to counteract the outsize, and growing, influence of large contributions in American politics.
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, has said he will press for changes to the state's campaign law and has called public financing ''essential.'' But he has also repeatedly noted the political opposition to such an idea. Some of those pressing for action are concerned that, with just four weeks left in the legislative session, the governor will give up on the issue. 
''I know what he says, but it's time for deeds and not words anymore,'' said Arnold Hiatt, the former chief executive of the Stride Rite footwear company and a longtime political donor. ''I'm hoping he becomes the profile in courage that he could be.''
The list of donors asking for action from Mr. Cuomo includes Wall Street figures like the billionaire financier George Soros, the hedge fund manager S. Donald Sussman and the venture capitalist Alan Patricof. It also includes coveted political donors from other walks of life, including Rob Reiner, the director of ''When Harry Met Sally'' and ''A Few Good Men''; Leo J. Hindery Jr., a former Yankees television executive; Susie Tompkins Buell, a founder of the Esprit clothing company; and Robert McKay, the heir to the Taco Bell fortune and the chairman of the Democracy Alliance, a group of liberal donors.
Matt Wing, a spokesman for the governor, said, ''We appreciate the support for the governor's leadership on this very important issue, and hope the Legislature gets the message as well.''
The Public Campaign Action Fund, a national advocacy group, helped coordinate the letter from the donors, which was sent to the governor's office last month but had not previously been made public. All told, the donors have raised or contributed at least $50 million for federal candidates and parties in recent years.
''These are the kinds of people that a Cuomo candidacy for president will need,'' said David B. Magleby, a political scientist at Brigham Young University who is writing a book about donors to the 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns. ''And so it's a two-way street: they're influencing Cuomo to go full-speed ahead on reforms at the state level, while knowing full well that he likely has national ambitions, and therefore he will be back to them should a set of circumstances arise where he is going to seek the nomination.''
The scandals of the last two months -- three lawmakers have been arrested on corruption charges, and one has resigned over sexual harassment allegations -- are being cited by both sides of the campaign finance debate. Democrats and government reform groups want Albany to adopt for statewide and legislative races a system of public financing modeled after the one used in New York City, where candidates, in exchange for agreeing to spending limits, can receive $6 in matching funds for every $1 they raise from individuals, for contributions up to $175.
Advocates for public financing say the system would make it easier for challengers to compete against Albany's many longtime incumbents, but opponents say it makes no sense to hand over tax dollars to politicians who have shown a propensity for criminality.
''I can't think of a worse idea,'' the Republican leader in the Senate, Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, wrote in an op-ed article published last week in The Times Union of Albany, calling public financing ''a recipe for more corruption.'' (Although Democrats have a numerical majority in the Senate, Republicans have partial control of the chamber -- and veto power over any bill moving to the floor -- thanks to an alliance they formed with an independent faction of Democrats.)
Mr. Cuomo wants legislators to approve public financing as part of a broader package of reform measures aimed at deterring corruption in Albany. So far, he has highlighted other aspects of the package, like strengthening criminal statutes. But at a news conference on Tuesday, he said that he was pursuing public financing, too, and that he had made a strategic decision to hold off introducing legislation while he negotiated with lawmakers.
'' 'Do they want a press release, or do they want something passed?' is the question that has to be posed,'' Mr. Cuomo said, adding that he thought there was ''still a chance'' he could reach an agreement with legislative leaders in the coming weeks.
The pressure on Mr. Cuomo is in part a reflection of his past successes. He influenced the national debate when, in 2011, he persuaded a reluctant Republican-controlled Senate to legalize same-sex marriage, and this year, before any other state had taken action, he prevailed on lawmakers to approve gun-control laws in response to the mass shooting in Newtown, Conn.
The wealthy donors who have written to Mr. Cuomo acknowledge the irony of seeking to diminish the influence of big campaign donations in New York State's political system, all while attracting attention because of their capacity to write checks.
''We know how the system works from the inside, and we know it needs change,'' said Ellen Chesler, an author and senior fellow at the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal policy and leadership organization. She and her husband, Matthew Mallow, the general counsel for the asset management firm BlackRock, hosted a picnic fund-raiser with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Bridgehampton last summer that featured a performance by James Taylor.
''This is like marriage equality -- a moral issue for our time,'' Ms. Chesler said.
Many of the donors are watching Mr. Cuomo as a possible contender for president in 2016.
''Demonstrated leadership on an important issue like this goes a long way in terms of suggesting that that's the kind of leadership the governor could bring to D.C.,'' said Spencer A. Overton, a law professor at George Washington University who raised more than $2 million for Mr. Obama's campaigns. ''There are other times before an election where candidates make promises, and they come up with grand platforms and ideas, and attract people. Governor Cuomo is in a situation right now where he can exert his leadership and actually accomplish something.''
But State Senator John A. DeFrancisco, a Syracuse Republican and the chairman of the Finance Committee, said he hoped Mr. Cuomo would resist pressure from Democrats who could help him wage a national campaign.
''I think it would be a huge mistake,'' Mr. DeFrancisco said, adding that the governor's ''first effort to show his bona fides with progressive groups was the gun-control law, and then his numbers went down precipitously.''
''In my mind,'' he said, ''when you start looking at political paths to a result several years down the road, you lose support of people that want you to make reasonable decisions.''
''I haven't gotten one call urging me to do public financing,'' he added. ''I mean, people are saying the economy stinks. Taxes are too high. There's no jobs. Those are the things that I think people really want and are important to the state, not whether or not public financing is going to be passed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); ELECTION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); FOOTWEAR (50%)

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (52%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE SOROS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



737 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Though Enrolling More Poor Students, 2-Year Colleges Get Less of Federal Pie

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Community colleges have received a declining share of government spending on higher education over the last decade even as their student bodies have become poorer and more heavily African-American and Latino, according to a report to be released Thursday.
''Many community colleges end up receiving minimal federal support,'' said Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, which is publishing the report. ''The kids with the greatest needs receive the fewest resources.'' 
The report argues that colleges have become increasingly separate and unequal, evoking the Supreme Court's landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision in 1954, which barred racial segregation in elementary and secondary schools. Higher education today, the report says, is stratified between four-year colleges with high graduation rates that serve largely affluent students and community colleges with often dismal graduation rates that serve mostly low-income students.
In 2009, community colleges spent $9,300 per student on educational resources, virtually unchanged from 1999 once inflation was taken into account. Public research universities spent $16,700, up 11 percent from 1999, and private research universities spent $41,000, an increase of 31 percent.
Community colleges often receive substantially less money per student than elementary or high schools, said Sara Goldrick-Rab, a University of Wisconsin professor who served on the 22-member committee that wrote the report.
The other members included the chancellor of Syracuse University, the president of the New York Public Library and three community college presidents.
Community colleges, which enroll about 44 percent of the nation's college students, will play a major role in determining how quickly educational attainment rises in the United States, experts say. While the United States once led the world in educational attainment by a wide margin, it has fallen behind some other rich countries over the past generation.
President Obama has called for the country to regain its lead by 2020, and community colleges would probably have to improve significantly for that goal to be met.
Although 81 percent of new students at community colleges say they want to transfer to a four-year college and earn a bachelor's degree, only 12 percent do so within six years, according to the report. Most entering students also fail to receive a two-year degree, although some community colleges have compiled an impressive record of graduating low-income students.
Community colleges began in the early 20th century, known then as junior colleges, and expanded rapidly in the 1960s. They became not only steppingstones to four-year colleges but also places that trained students for specific jobs, like nurses, paralegals or engineering technicians.
The largest, each with tens of thousands of students, include Miami Dade College; Northern Virginia Community College; City College of San Francisco; Lone Star College, in Houston; and Kingsborough Community College, in Brooklyn.
The report describes a network of federal and state educational policies that has failed to keep pace with the increasing enrollment of lower-income students in higher education. The largest federal financial aid program -- Pell grants, which go to lower-income students to offset tuition -- does relatively little to help community colleges because their tuition tends to be low.
''In the 20th century, going to college was not necessary for getting a job in the middle class,'' said Eduardo J. Padrón, the president of Miami Dade College and a co-chairman of the 22-member committee. ''But in today's job market, if you don't have a postsecondary credential, you can't get a job that lets you achieve the American dream. It keeps you in a cycle of poverty.''
Community colleges and four-year colleges have both suffered in recent years from state budget cuts, said Sandy Baum, a senior fellow at the George Washington University Graduate School of Education and Human Development. But four-year colleges have made up some of the shortfall through tuition increases, while community colleges have not increased tuition as rapidly.
The financing gap, Ms. Goldrick-Rab said, ''is contributing to really appalling completion rates.''
The report recommended a series of policy changes, including more transparency about who benefits from federal education spending; more outcome-based financing, to reward colleges that do the best job with challenging students; and programs to make community colleges economically diverse. Community colleges could create more honors programs, including classes for high school students, and four-year colleges could set aside more slots for community college transfers, the authors said.
Other research has found that poor students tend to fare worse, all else equal, when enrolled in a school made up mostly of poor students. Yet over the last generation, higher education appears to have become more stratified.
In 2006, 28 percent of community college students came from the bottom quartile of the socioeconomic distribution, up from 21 percent in 1982. Only 16 percent of community college students came from the top quartile in 2006, down from 24 percent in 1982.
By comparison, only about 5 percent of students at the 200 most selective four-year colleges came from the bottom quartile in 2006, according to Anthony P. Carnevale and Jeff Strohl, of the Center on Education and the Workforce, at Georgetown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (64%); PARALEGALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



738 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Existing-Home Sales Hit a 3-Year High

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Prices surged as resales of homes in the United States rose in April to the highest level in nearly three and a half years, offering the economy a buffer from the stiff headwinds of belt-tightening in Washington. 
The National Association of Realtors said on Wednesday that existing-home sales had advanced 0.6 percent to an annual rate of 4.97 million units, the highest level since November 2009. The data underscored the housing market's improving fortunes as it starts to regain its footing. Resales were 9.7 percent higher than in the same period last year.
''It's quite supportive of the overall economy,'' said Michelle Meyer, a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. ''It's a cushion against some of the other concerns in the economy.''
Tight supplies in some parts of the country have constrained the pace of home sales, but sellers are starting to wade back into the market, attracted by rising prices.
In April, the median home sales price increased 11 percent from a year ago to $192,800, the highest level since August 2008. It was the fifth consecutive month of double-digit gains.
With prices rising, more sellers put their properties on the market. The inventory of homes on the market rose 11.9 percent from March to 2.16 million.
Adding to signs that the housing recovery was becoming firmly established, distressed properties, which can weigh on prices because they typically sell at deep discounts, accounted for only 18 percent of sales last month.
That was the lowest since the real estate association started monitoring them in October 2008. Those properties -- foreclosures and short sales -- made up 21 percent of sales in March.
In another bright sign, properties were selling more quickly. The median time on the market for homes was 46 days in April, down from 62 days the previous month.
About 44 percent of all homes sold in April had been on the market for less than a month, while only 8 percent had been on the market for a year or longer.
Sales were up in three of the four regions, falling 3.4 percent in the Midwest.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing single- family homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); STATISTICS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



739 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Farm Subsidy Recipient Backs Food Stamp Cuts

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A Tennessee congressman who supports billion of dollars in cuts to the food stamp program is one of the largest recipients of federal farm subsides, according to new annual data released by a Washington environmental group.
Using Agriculture Department data, researchers at the Environmental Working Group found that Representative Stephen Fincher, a Republican and a farmer from Frog Jump, Tenn., collected nearly $3.5 million in subsidies from 1999 to 2012. The data is part of the research group's online farm subsidy database from which the group issues a report each year.
In 2012 alone, the data shows, Mr. Fincher received about $70,000 in direct payments, money that is given to farmers and farmland owners, even if they do not grow crops. It is unclear how much Mr. Fincher received in crop insurance subsidies because the names of people receiving the subsidies are not public. The group said most of the agriculture subsidies go to the largest, most profitable farm operations in the country. These farmers have received $265 billion in direct payments and farm insurance subsidies since 1995, federal records show. 
During debate on the farm bill in the House Agriculture Committee last week, Mr. Fincher was one of the biggest proponents of $20 billion in cuts to food stamps in the legislation. At times he quoted passages from the Bible in defending the cuts.
''We have to remember there is not a big printing press in Washington that continually prints money over and over,'' Mr. Fincher said during the debate. ''This is other people's money that Washington is appropriating and spending.''
Scott Faber, vice president of government affairs at the Environmental Working Group, said that Mr. Fincher was being hypocritical. ''Not only is he advocating deep cuts to other people's money while he is getting subsidies, he also voted to increase the subsidies that he benefits from,'' Mr. Faber said.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Fincher did not respond to a request for comment.
The new subsidy data comes as the Senate continues floor debate this week on a new five-year farm bill. The House bill is expected to go to the floor next month.
Despite an estimated $24 billion in savings in the Senate bill and $40 billion in the House, the new farm bills preserve several Depression-era subsidy programs like price supports for American sugar growers and limits on sugar imports. The bills also create subsidies for Southern peanut and rice farmers.
The most significant change in both the House and Senate bills is the end of direct payments, which cost taxpayers about $5 billion a year.
Both the House and Senate bills would use the savings from eliminating direct payments to increase financing for crop insurance, a federally subsidized program that pays 62 percent of the premiums for farmers and covers decreases in crop yields or revenue. About $1.3 billion a year is paid to 15 insurance companies to sell and process the policies.
The program has grown in the past few years, and last year paid out record amounts because of the worst drought in 50 years. Research by an Iowa State University economist, Bruce A. Babcock, that was financed by the Environmental Working Group, found that the payouts were mostly a result of policies that guarantee farmers a portion of their projected revenue, rather than coverage that pays them for their damaged crops.
The new farm bills would increase the crop insurance programs by $9 billion and include an additional subsidy called the ''shallow loss'' program, which would cover farmers for modest crop yields or declines in prices.
Several conservative groups, including the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute, as well as environmental organizations including the Environmental Working Group, oppose crop insurance subsidies, which they say amount to income protection, rather than protection against crop losses from drought or natural disasters. The Obama administration has called for cuts to all of the farm subsidies including the crop insurance program.
Food stamps would receive a $4.1 billion cut in the Senate farm bill. An amendment by Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, to reverse the cuts by using money from the crop insurance program was soundly defeated after a passionate plea by Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, who called crop insurance vital to farmers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); FOOD STAMPS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CROP INSURANCE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SUGAR FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); RICE FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (84%)

PERSON: STEPHEN FINCHER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



740 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Fed Endorses Stimulus, But Message Is Garbled

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Nathaniel Popper contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite signs of improvement in the job market, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, and most other Fed officials signaled Wednesday that they remained cautious about easing back too quickly on their efforts to stimulate the economy.
While some Fed policy makers suggested that the central bank could begin reducing its monthly purchases of government bonds as early as next month, most still want to see continued evidence of an upswing in the job market and a decline in unemployment first, according to minutes of the most recent meeting of the Fed's policy arm that were released Wednesday afternoon. 
Confusion on Wall Street over the Fed's intentions led to a topsy-turvy day in the stock market. The major indicators were up in the morning after Mr. Bernanke testified to a Congressional committee but then fell sharply after the meeting minutes were disclosed.
In his testimony, Mr. Bernanke said that ending the $85 billion monthly bond-buying effort too soon would do more harm than good.
''A premature tightening of monetary policy could lead interest rates to rise temporarily but also would carry a substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery,'' he said.
While Mr. Bernanke clearly enjoys the support of a majority of the Fed's Open Market Committee, the minutes suggested that he was finding it challenging to forge a consensus.
Under questioning from a lawmaker, Mr. Bernanke suggested that the Fed might cut back on bond purchases some time in ''the next few meetings.'' That statement took on greater significance on Wall Street after the minutes hinted at the more unnerving prospect of action as early as June.
Still, many analysts said the odds were against a change of direction at the Fed's meeting next month.
''It's been on the minds of committee members, but I don't think the minutes mean they're going to collectively take their foot off the gas in June,'' said Erik Johnson, an economist with IHS Global Insight.
More likely, he said, would be a pullback beginning in late summer or early fall if the economy sustains its momentum. Even if that happens, the Fed will remain extraordinarily accommodative by many other measures, with short-term interest rates staying very low.
In response to a question from Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, Mr. Bernanke said that whenever the stimulus began to taper off, it would not happen in an ''automatic, mechanistic program. Any change would depend on the incoming data.''
Further evidence for a move in a few months, rather than weeks, came in an interview shown on Wednesday on Bloomberg TV with the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William C. Dudley, that seemed aimed at clearing up some of the confusion.
''I think three or four months from now you'll have a much better sense of is the economy healthy enough to overcome the fiscal drag or not,'' said Mr. Dudley, who is a close ally of Mr. Bernanke.
Outside the canyons of Wall Street and the world of Fed watchers, the difference between June and August or September might not appear significant. But with interest rates at historical lows, any move to cut back on bond purchases by the Fed would undoubtedly cause an uptick in bond yields. That would affect the huge market for government and corporate bonds and force stock market investors to recalibrate their positions.
When the trading day began on Wednesday, investors were in a buoyant mood, sending stock indexes higher as Mr. Bernanke began his testimony. Markets around the world have rallied this year on hopes that the Fed and other central banks will continue to support financial markets with monetary policies.
As the day went on, though, traders began to reconsider some of Mr. Bernanke's comments. After the details of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on April 30 and May 1 were released, many strategists said they were surprised by the number of voices inside the Fed calling for a slowdown in the stimulus effort in the near future.
The minutes said, ''A number of participants expressed willingness to adjust the flow of purchases downward as early as the June meeting if the economic information received by that time showed evidence of sufficiently strong and sustained growth.''
In response, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the day at 1,655.35, down 13.81, while the Dow Jones industrial average fell 80.41 to 15,307.17. The tech-heavy Nasdaq index, which has been on a tear lately, sank 38.82 to 3,463.30, or slightly over 1 percent.
Mr. Bernanke indicated that he was not particularly worried that the stock market was moving into bubble territory, despite the 16 percent surge in the S.& P. 500 since the beginning of the year.
''Our sense is that major asset prices like stock and bond prices are not inconsistent with fundamentals,'' he said. Commonly used yardsticks for measuring the value of stocks, like price-to-earnings multiples, Mr. Bernanke concluded, are ''fairly normal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, told Congress it was premature to cut back on the stimulus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BONDS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); KEVIN BRADY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



741 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: Europe Pushes To Shed Stigma Of a Tax Haven

BYLINE: By ANDREW HIGGINS

 BODY:
LUXEMBOURG -- It was a blunt and unsettling message for a country whose opaque banks have sucked in hundreds of billions of euros from abroad and whose national motto -- ''We want to remain what we are'' -- is a credo of dogged resistance to change.
''Nothing is as it was before,'' Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker told Parliament last month, explaining why, after years of resistance, Luxembourg had decided to start sharing information with foreign tax authorities about the money stashed in its banks. ''Not everything has changed, but lots of things have changed. Other changes are necessary, or everything will change.''
The attention this week on the ability of Apple and other prominent American corporations to avoid corporate taxes through offshore tax arrangements obscures a perhaps more significant development, highlighted by Luxembourg's abrupt retreat from banking secrecy: the relentless pressures being piled on opaque money centers around the world amid a sweeping global assault on tax evasion and the secrecy that enables it. 
''Bank secrecy is a relic of the past,'' said Algirdas Semeta, the European Union's senior official responsible for tax issues. ''Soon we will see the death of bank secrecy around the world.''
From the rain-swept avenues of Luxembourg's capital to the sun-spangled lagoons of the British Virgin Islands in the Caribbean, the authorities are scrambling to shed the stigma of enabling tax cheats and to figure out how to change their secretive ways without driving away lucrative foreign clients.
The pressure, increased by the recent leak of a giant cache of confidential files relating to offshore havens, is ''like a steamroller,'' said Egide Thein, former director of the Luxembourg Economic Development Bureau.
How to keep this steamroller moving was the focus of a European Union summit meeting on Wednesday in Brussels. The gathering produced no momentous decisions but did prod Austria, the union's last stalwart defender of banking secrecy, to accept the idea of sharing information about bank accounts held by foreigners -- so long as countries outside the union, notably Switzerland, agree to do the same.
Austria and Luxembourg also gave a conditional pledge to, by the end of the year, sign onto an expanded program of automatic data sharing that would go beyond just banks to include trusts and foundations, which are widely used by wealthy Europeans to park and often hide money.
The European Commission, the union's executive arm, has been pushing for years to enlarge the scope of financial information that is automatically shared among the bloc's 27 member states. It has also pressed for a crackdown on ''aggressive tax planning'' by multinational companies like Apple, which investigators in Congress say avoided billions of taxes in America and elsewhere through an elaborate, globe-spanning web of companies revolving around outfits based in Ireland.
Ireland, which holds the European Union's rotating presidency, has strongly supported measures to combat tax evasion, which is illegal, but has come under intense scrutiny and criticism in recent days for its role in enabling tax avoidance schemes. Prime Minister Enda Kenny, speaking Wednesday in Brussels, said that global tax rules ''have not kept up'' with economic changes in the digital era, but he rejected assertions by Senate investigators that Ireland gave Apple a special 2 percent tax rate. ''Ireland does not do special deals or side deals with companies,'' he said.
In many cases, both legal and illegal skirting of taxes occur in the same places -- a global archipelago of mostly tiny ''business friendly'' outposts long anchored in secrecy and low or highly flexible tax rates.
Luxembourg, for example, has only 539,000 people but serves as the regional headquarters for a host of large companies that book their profits here rather than in the countries where they do business. It is also a major financial center whose 130 or so banks, mostly subsidiaries of major international institutions, held deposits of around $350 billion at the end of last year -- about $650,000 per resident.
Officials here bristle at the ''tax haven'' label, insisting that Luxembourg attracts so much cash, most of it from foreigners, simply because the country offers political stability, honest regulators and a pool of multilingual finance professionals.
All the same, its pledge to join a Europe-wide program to exchange banking information is a significant and risky step for a country that the Tax Justice Network, a research group in London, branded the ''death star'' of financial secrecy in Europe because of its long and previously steadfast opposition to greater transparency.
''In five years, there will be no tax havens left on earth,'' Mr. Thein predicted, because ''a country cannot prosper in the long run from stealing other people's taxes.''
Even the world's most tight-lipped offshore havens -- the Cayman Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands, and other British territories in the Caribbean -- announced this month that they will begin to share bank account information, though they retain highly opaque corporate registration systems. Singapore, where France's now disgraced former budget minister, Jérôme Cahuzac, for a time stashed secret funds, is also making it more difficult for foreigners to park money beyond the reach of tax authorities.
Regulators have been chipping away at bank secrecy for some time. For its role in illegally assisting wealthy Americans in evading taxes, the Swiss banking giant UBS agreed in 2009 to pay $780 million in fines to the United States government and turned over the names of thousands of American account holders.
But the current, escalating assault on secrecy began in 2010, when Congress passed legislation that requires foreign financial institutions to inform the Internal Revenue Service of all accounts held by American taxpayers and by foreign entities in which Americans have a substantial ownership interest.
This provided a powerful lever to the European Union to prize open opaque financial sectors both inside the 27-nation bloc and beyond. At a meeting of finance ministers in Brussels last week, the European Commission was given the go-ahead to negotiate financial information sharing accords with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, Monaco and San Marino.
By one estimate, wealthy individuals hold unreported assets worth at least $21 trillion -- far more than the entire annual economic output of the United States -- in tax havens. Mr. Semeta, the European Union's tax commissioner, estimates that Europe loses well over a trillion dollars a year through tax evasion and the more divisive and politically delicate issue of legal tax avoidance.
The big question now hanging over Luxembourg and other financial centers under pressure to share information is how many depositors will try to take their money elsewhere.
Mr. Frieden, Luxembourg's finance minister, played down the risk of a mass flight. ''Some small clients may leave, but a lot of large clients are coming in,'' he said.
All the same, Luxembourg wants to make sure that more opaque rivals like Switzerland and Singapore do not gain an unfair competitive edge. Luxembourg, Mr. Frieden said, supports transparency but ''wants a level playing field.''
Luxembourg bankers say the bulk of their customers have nothing to hide but still value their privacy for security and other legitimate reasons. Jean-Jacques Rommes, chief executive of the Luxembourg Bankers Association, complained that banks are being turned into ''the long arm of tax authorities. Many customers don't like that. The more money they have, the less they like it.''
Alain Steichen, a prominent Luxembourg lawyer who has worked closely with the financial sector here for years, predicts a potentially serious exodus by depositors who do not want their identities revealed. Luxembourg's finance sector, he said, has developed far beyond its early years in the 1970s, when it became notorious for helping Belgian dentists and other modestly wealthy customers from neighboring countries hide their incomes. It now attracts sophisticated global players and involves much more than murky private banking.
Indeed, around $3 trillion is invested in mutual funds and other investment vehicles domiciled in Luxembourg. Only the United States has a bigger fund industry.
But, Mr. Steichen added, ''we clearly have a legacy issue'' because many of those who stashed money in Luxembourg banks in the past to avoid taxes still have accounts -- and may now bolt. Such bank clients, he said, will most likely shift to other locations that still offer secrecy. But the list of those is shrinking fast.
Still very numerous, however, are opportunities for legal tax avoidance. Mr. Semeta, the European Union tax official, acknowledged that halting such practices is hard because fixing tax rates remains the prerogative of individual European states. This means, for example, that Ireland is entirely within its rights to set a corporate tax rate of 12.5 percent, less than half the level in Germany, France and Britain and just over a third the 35 percent rate in the United States.
Nonetheless, Mr. Semeta said, it is still possible to ''create an environment that does not allow tax shopping.''
Luxembourg, which has the lowest sales tax rate in Europe, has been particularly adept at attracting shoppers. Amazon, for example, reports its sales in Britain and elsewhere in Europe through a Luxembourg company, which operates out of a modest building on a narrow side street in the capital's old town. The Luxembourg office does not ship any books, but is stuffed instead with accountants and lawyers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Luxembourg will join a Europe-wide effort to share records on bank accounts held by foreigners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS LENOIR/REUTERS) (A15) MAP: Luxembourg is a major banking and corporate center. (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX PLANNING (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: EGIDE SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: GID (PAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3643 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (53%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (77%) EUROPE (96%); LUXEMBOURG (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



742 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: 3 in Europe Now Oppose Hezbollah

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Steven Erlanger contributed reporting from Paris, Andrew Higgins from Brussels, and Jodi Rudoren from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Three of Europe's most powerful countries -- Britain, Germany and France -- have thrown their weight behind a push for the European Union to designate the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, a move that could have far-reaching consequences for the group's fund-raising activities on the Continent.
On Wednesday, Germany signaled an about-face in its policy toward the group, with a statement saying Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle supported listing ''at least the military wing'' of the organization as a terrorist group. The announcement came just a day after Britain's Foreign Office said it would pursue doing the same, promising to ''work closely with our European partners on this issue to reach a robust, collective E.U. position.'' 
France had been undecided, but on Wednesday night Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said it would join Britain and Germany in seeking to have the ''military wing'' of Hezbollah put on the European Union terrorist list, according to Agence France-Presse.
Mr. Fabius was speaking in Amman, Jordan, after a meeting of the Friends of the Syrian People, a group designed to aid the rebellion against Mr. Assad.
If approved, such a move could choke off sources of funds from Hezbollah's members and sympathizers throughout Europe, at a time when the group's image as a liberation movement has already suffered because Hezbollah fighters are battling in Syria on behalf of the government there.
The United States and Israel have long urged their European allies to list the organization either in whole or in part as a terrorist group. But pressure has grown substantially since a bombing in July in Bulgaria killed five Israeli tourists and a Bulgarian bus driver. Bulgarian officials have said Hezbollah was behind the attack, which the group denies.
Law enforcement can already pursue Hezbollah for the sorts of criminal activities associated with the group, including smuggling and counterfeiting, but even a partial blacklisting would bring added scrutiny. Germany's domestic intelligence agency said Hezbollah had 950 members and supporters in the country in 2011, the latest figure available.
Still, many experts question the strategy of simply taking aim at Hezbollah's military wing, arguing that it is impossible to separate the part of the organization that engages in politics and social services from the group's large armed militia. Moreover, if only the so-called military wing is blacklisted, the group might still be able raise money in Europe under the banner of politics.
''I don't know if that makes any sense or you really can say there's a political wing and a terrorist wing,'' said Sylke Tempel, editor in chief of Internationale Politik, the journal published by the German Council on Foreign Relations. ''They belong together like my left leg and my right leg.''
Britain expects the European Union's secretive working group on terrorist designations -- known as CP931 -- to take up the matter on June 4 and European foreign ministers to consider the proposal and make a decision later in the month. In addition to the Bulgaria bombing, the British government cited the conviction of a Hezbollah operative in Cyprus for planning attacks against Israelis vacationing there as grounds for the change in policy.
While no one was killed in Cyprus, experts said during the trial there that a conviction in a court of law would very likely carry more weight in the European Union's bureaucratic decision-making process than accusations that the group was behind the deadly bombing in Bulgaria, no matter how well-founded the intelligence.
The shift in stance by Germany, the most populous country in the European Union and its largest economy, signals a significant change in momentum. ''The German position is based on an increasingly clearer picture of the facts and on the progress achieved by Cypriot authorities in analyzing terrorist activities,'' the statement said. ''Minister Westerwelle hopes that the necessary consultations within the E.U. can be concluded rapidly.''
While German backing is critical, such a move would require unanimity among the 27 nations of the European Union, which could be difficult to achieve.
In the past, France and some other countries, like Sweden, have opposed putting Hezbollah on the terrorist blacklist, fearing it could destabilize the Lebanese government. The Palestinian group Hamas is on the list, and a number of European countries now believe that listing Hamas was a mistake because of the important political role it plays in Gaza and in the Palestinian political world. European officials are banned from talking openly to Hamas officials, for example.
Mr. Fabius explained the changed French position by emphasizing Syria, not Bulgaria. ''Given the decisions taken by Hezbollah and the fact that it has fought very hard against the Syrian population, I confirm that France will propose to inscribe the military wing of Hezbollah on the list of terrorist organizations'' of the European Union, he said, according to Agence France-Presse.
Having Paris support Britain and Germany will add considerable weight to their efforts.
In recent days, Hezbollah fighters have joined the Syrian military in attacking the city of Qusayr, a strategic point long held by antigovernment forces.
Neither the British nor the Germans mentioned the situation in Syria, but it clearly has affected attitudes toward Hezbollah. ''Obviously they're all sitting in Amman getting worried about Hezbollah,'' said Ms. Tempel, referring to the foreign ministers gathered in the capital of Jordan.
There was no official reaction from Jerusalem, but one Israeli official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he had not been authorized to address the matter, called it ''a half-baked move.'' The official objected to the notion that only a ''militant wing,'' and not all of Hezbollah, would be deemed terrorist, saying it was akin to ''trying to get in the pool and not get wet.''
''This is a distinction that we believe is absolutely artificial,'' he said. ''Hezbollah itself does not make any distinction between the political wing and the military wing, so why should anybody else? They're not all carrying around bombs, but the whole organization is centered around terror -- it's one big military wing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Right, Bulgarian officials blamed Hezbollah for a bus bombing in July that killed five Israeli tourists and the driver. Hassan Nasrallah, above, is Hezbollah's leader. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STOYAN NENOV/REUTERS
 SHARIF KARIM/REUTERS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); BOMBINGS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (75%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); ISRAEL (93%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (92%); BULGARIA (89%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



743 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: For Westerners in Asia, the Job Market Grows Tougher

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Julia Przetakiewicz has an enviable résumé: She has a master's degree from a prestigious British university, has more than a decade of work experience, has lived in five countries and speaks four languages.
Unfortunately, her Mandarin is limited -- and because of that, she has struggled to find a new job in Hong Kong, a city that once welcomed her with open arms.
Cities like Hong Kong and Singapore -- trading and financial hubs within one of the fastest-growing regions of the world -- have long attracted Europeans and Americans in search of adventure and jobs. Their modern infrastructures, good education and health systems, and a general openness to English-speaking workers have long made them special favorites with expatriates.
The global financial crisis only intensified that magnetism as Westerners, disenchanted with the turmoil in their home countries and lured by rapid economic growth, moved east in ever greater numbers. 
Ten, or even five, years ago, experienced expatriates who were prepared to take the plunge stood a pretty good chance of finding a white-collar job in Hong Kong, Singapore or even Shanghai. But many are now finding it much tougher to find work, thanks to cost pressures, a larger pool of qualified local hires and a shift in the role that Asia plays within the global economy.
''When I came to Hong Kong in 2009, it still seemed pretty easy,'' said Ms. Przetakiewicz, who at the time found a role as a manager for a business leaders forum that promotes corporate social responsibility. ''Now, even an understanding of the local context and issues does not seem to be enough. Practically everyone wants Mandarin.''
Early this year, she decided to look for a new job. But after several job interviews, Ms. Przetakiewicz, who holds Polish and Canadian citizenship, recently decided to leave Hong Kong and take her skills elsewhere.
Ms. Przetakiewicz is not alone in finding that despite low unemployment and solid hiring across many sectors, the job market in Asia is gradually becoming less welcoming for Westerners.
Even before the global financial crisis, newcomers to Asia could not expect to walk into a job in the region unless they had particularly sought-after skills.
About 60 percent of job specs processed by the recruitment firm Hudson in Singapore, for example, now require Mandarin, said Andrew Tomich, the company's executive general manager in Singapore. Five years ago, he said, the percentage was half that.
''Even in the last 12 months, there's been a steady increase in Singapore for Mandarin-speaking candidates,'' he said. ''We can feel it with every breath we take.''
In Hong Kong, which is a stepping stone to mainland China, the percentage of jobs requiring Mandarin or Cantonese has climbed to more than 80 percent, according to Aruna Alimchandani, director of the commerce and industrial unit at Hudson in Hong Kong. That is up from about 70 percent just a few years ago.
In mainland China in the 12 months through October 2012, expatriates ended up in just 5 percent of the jobs filled by Hays, a recruitment agency that specializes in white-collar jobs. One year earlier, the number was 11 percent, said Christine Wright, who heads Hays's operations in Asia.
It is not that companies do not want to add employees. A recent survey by Hudson showed that the vast majority of companies in mainland China, Hong Kong and Singapore planned to increase their numbers of employees or keep staffing levels steady this quarter. Many, in fact, have to work hard to attract and retain workers.
But, job market experts say, employers are more eager than ever to ensure that the employees they do hire match their expectations.
On the cost front, that means avoiding the extra expenses that can come with hiring foreigners -- relocation costs, for example, or school fees for children. Many have also become more eager to fill positions with people who are unlikely to leave again soon.
''Companies want people who commit to the region long-term -- who don't just come on a two-year contract,'' said Ms. Wright of Hays.
Moreover, she said, the pool of locals who have the necessary training and experience for jobs that were once dominated by expatriates has grown, so there is less need for employers to look outside.
''Lots of young Asians who went abroad to work or study are now coming back. They are eager, multilingual and have overseas experience and education -- they fit many employers' bills perfectly,'' she said.
At the same time, the transformation of Asia's developing economies means companies need different employees than they once did. (The change is less perceptible in highly developed Japan, whose mature and slow-growing economy has already undergone many of the shifts that are now happening elsewhere in Asia.)
Over the past two decades, much of developing Asia has evolved from a blue-collar manufacturing base into a destination for consumer goods like cars and industrial equipment. That shift has created a greater need to interact directly with local customers, suppliers and business partners.
Over that same time period, Asia's trade has become more intra-regional, often involving China, rather than the West.
Those shifts have inflated demand for employees with local language skills and cultural backgrounds, headhunters and business executives explain.
A decade ago, Ms. Wright said, it was possible, and fairly common, for international companies to deploy foreigners to Asia-based jobs, giving them translators to help out with the communications on the ground. That arrangement, she said, is now less feasible.
Finally, Asia's growing importance within the global economy has changed the way multinationals organize themselves across the region. Whereas many firms had run the region as a single management unit -- often from Hong Kong and Singapore -- companies are increasingly starting to break up their Asia-Pacific management units into smaller, more manageable blocks, the Economist Corporate Network wrote in a recent report.
For many companies, China ''has reached a critical mass where it needs an independent management team that is separate from managing the rest of Asia,'' the report said.
This structural evolution has affected hiring, by increasing the number of positions focused on smaller parts of Asia, or single countries, making an understanding of local cultures and languages more important.
The exact hiring requirements, of course, vary by sector and job. Similarly, not all positions and employers require language skills or years of Asia background.
Still, Mr. Tomich of the Hudson office in Singapore, said the shift in recruitment requirements could be felt ''right through the role types.''
Nowadays, he said, an engineer based in Singapore might, for example, have to be able to deal directly with suppliers in China -- something that would not have been the case 10 years ago.
''Pretty much all the jobs I see advertised say 'Mandarin required,' sometimes Cantonese, too,'' said one Frenchman who moved to Hong Kong last October after being laid off from his position as a trader at a French bank in Paris.
His wife, who works in the luxury retail sector, has had similar experiences: Many job applications, several interviews, but -- because she lacks the Mandarin that is needed to interact with Chinese shoppers -- no job offer so far.
''We came here because we thought the market would be easier here than in Europe,'' said the Frenchman, who declined to be identified because, like many foreigners, he is in Hong Kong on a tourist visa that does not officially allow him to look for a job in the city. ''There are jobs around; it's just that they all want Chinese,'' he said.
Still, said Ms. Alimchandani of Hudson in Hong Kong, ''it's not all doom and gloom. There are jobs to be had -- it's just that you might have to be flexible with the industry and position, and on the income front.''
Lamia Mahjoub, a 28-year-old former personnel officer from Paris, found herself in precisely that position. A lengthy job search finally paid off for her in April, when she began working as a business development manager at an art leasing company in Hong Kong.
''It's been a difficult job hunt,'' Ms. Mahjoub said, ''but in the end I got lucky.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) HONG KONG (99%); SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



744 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: One Final Goal: A Cornell Star Stayed for a Ring

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
So many options. Take the finance job in New York City. Star for the hometown team in Major League Lacrosse. Transfer to another university, one outside the Ivy League, to circumvent all its rules and regulations and red tape.
Rob Pannell considered all of that for about two seconds last spring and narrowed his list of choices back to one. He would stay at Cornell, even if he had to add a second minor, delay his graduation and take the fall semester off.
Here was perhaps the best college lacrosse player in the country. He wanted to finish what he started, where he started, again with the complicated route. 
''That was the clear option, the only option, really,'' Pannell said in a telephone interview this week. ''I didn't want to end my college career on a broken foot.''
Pannell broke the fifth metatarsal bone in his left foot last year, in the second game of his senior season. When doctors told him it would take three months to heal, he found one example of an athlete who returned in seven weeks. Seven weeks it was, then.
The injury did not heal. It worsened to where Pannell could not return as Cornell failed to make the N.C.A.A. tournament. In an odd, Ivy League twist, this actually expanded Pannell's options. He could graduate and move on. Or he could stay, as long as he did not graduate and fulfilled other requirements.
As part of his course work in the Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, Pannell added a specialization in strategy to his specialization in finance. He took classes in strategic pricing and strategic thinking. He also took the fall semester off, to comply with Ivy League rules, which prohibit the participation of graduate students in sports. In similar instances, players simply transferred from Princeton and Dartmouth and Harvard to other established lacrosse powers.
Not Pannell. Essentially, he left Cornell to remain at Cornell.
This worked out for everyone except Cornell's opponents in this N.C.A.A. tournament, which will conclude Monday in Philadelphia. Cornell welcomed back Pannell, its two-time Tewaaraton Trophy finalist and three-time conference player of the year, a transcendent talent who enters Saturday's semifinal against Duke a mere 6 points from the N.C.A.A. career record. Pannell interned, worked out obsessively and made a philanthropic trip to Uganda.
He returned this season as dominant as before, or more so. In the years previous, Pannell had honed an unusual skill set, as comfortable behind a defense as in front of it, with uncommon vision and strength, muscled and compact and shifty. The way he played, Pannell drew comparisons to Mike Powell, a dynamic attacker in his time at Syracuse.
''Rob is unusual,'' his uncle, Jim Metzger, said. ''He wants that confrontation. He likes contact. He can break down a defense, break down a man, play within a system.
''He's Gale Sayers with a lacrosse stick.''
From 2009 to 2011, Pannell scored 236 points. That was more than some teams. He broke several Cornell records. Each year, he tapped a list of goals into his cellphone: Ivy League freshman of the year, all-American, national player of the year. On and on it went. Eventually, only one goal remained. The goal that still remains.
Win a national championship.
Pannell bloomed late. He entered his senior season at Smithtown High School (West) on Long Island as a solid if lightly recruited player who was initially offered one scholarship -- by Quinnipiac in Connecticut.
That changed. Metzger, the chief executive of the Whitmore Group and a former lacrosse star at Hofstra, watched one game early in his nephew's senior season. He could not sleep well for days afterward. He asked former teammates to watch subsequent games. They agreed. Pannell could play anywhere, should play somewhere other than Quinnipiac.
Quinnipiac would not release Pannell from his scholarship, so he spent a year at Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts. The first time the Cornell assistant Ben DeLuca watched Pannell there, he was ''blown away.'' Pannell was the best player on the field. The once-skinny high school attacker now weighed close to 200 pounds. The passes he delivered to unsuspecting teammates bonked them in the head or the chest or their sticks. Still do, in fact.
''That tape would come in, and we would be mesmerized,'' said DeLuca, now Cornell's head coach. ''We would turn to each other: 'Did you see that?' There's really no one to compare him to in modern-day lacrosse. A player like Rob Pannell comes around once in a generation.''
When Pannell could not return from injury last season, he made his choice. He chose his brotherhood of teammates. He chose the sleepy central New York college town of Ithaca he had learned to call home. His teammates gained experience when he missed fall ball, and then he returned, and a good Cornell lacrosse team added one of the sport's best players back into its lineup.
His teammate Steve Mock had missed Pannell's ever-present hair spray. The goals scored and assists accumulated also helped.
All of which brought Pannell full circle, or close to it. In his freshman season, Cornell led Syracuse late in the fourth quarter of the title game. Minutes from victory, then seconds from it, Cornell collapsed under a flurry of Orange goals and fell in overtime.
Now, the complicated path has led Pannell here, two wins from the one goal he never met. He returned to the university that believed in him when so few others did and returned Cornell to the national semifinals. And there, across the bracket, sits none other than Syracuse, the perfect opponent, the perfect ending, already scripted should they meet in the championship again. (Syracuse will face Denver in the other semifinal.)
''That's all I want,'' Pannell said. ''That's why I came back there. I've proven everything that you can prove as an individual. I would give it all up for a ring.''
So many options, dwindled down.
''One option,'' Pannell continued. ''Win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rob Pannell, close to the N.C.A.A. career record for points, will lead Cornell against Duke in an N.C.A.A. semifinal Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SHANAHAN/CORNELL UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LACROSSE (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); UGANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



745 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Worries Over Stimulus Drag Wall Street Lower

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index posted its biggest decline in three weeks on Wednesday after minutes from the latest Federal Reserve policy meeting showed that some officials were open to cutting back on large-scale asset purchases as early as the June meeting. 
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq index also declined. Trading was volatile, with the Dow and the S.& P. rising in the morning, but falling in the afternoon.
The Fed minutes were released after comments from Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman, who said the Fed could decide to scale back the pace of bond purchases at one of the ''next few meetings'' if the recovery looked as if it would maintain positive momentum.
The comments were a blow to a market that had accelerated after Mr. Bernanke said the central bank needed to see further signs of traction in the economy before it trimmed back the stimulus.
''This is a very sensitive market and particularly sensitive to any notion that tapering will come too soon,'' said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial in New York.
''No one wants to be selling if the data reaches the point when the Fed begins to specifically talk about tapering. The market doesn't wait for the Fed to move. It will move before. That's how it operates.''
Ms. Krosby added that Mr. Bernanke went off script and, in his effort to be transparent, ''he confused the market.''
According to the minutes of the April 30 to May 1 policy meeting, which were released on Wednesday, ''a number'' of officials were open to reducing large-scale asset purchases as early as the June meeting, but disagreement continued on what conditions would suffice to begin that move.
Investors have increasingly turned their attention to when the Fed's $85 billion monthly bond purchase program might end or slow. The stimulus has been a major force behind a rally in United States equities that has helped the S.& P. 500 and the Dow industrials to double-digit gains.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 80.41 points, or 0.52 percent, at 15,307.17. The S.& P. 500 was down 13.81 points, or 0.83 percent, at 1,655.35. The Nasdaq composite index was down 38.82 points, or 1.11 percent, at 3,463.30.
The S.& P. 500 rose as high as 1,687.18 and fell as low as 1,648.86 in Wednesday's trading session while the Dow rose as high as 15,542.40 and fell as low as 15,265.96.
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 30/32, to 97 14/32, and the yield rose to 2.04 from 1.93 on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (85%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



746 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Garcetti Is Elected Mayor of Los Angeles, Thwarting Opposition of Labor Unions

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Ian Lovett and Amy Silverstein contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Despite the city's most powerful unions' having spent millions on behalf of his opponent, City Councilman Eric Garcetti handily won his bid to become the mayor of Los Angeles on Tuesday, receiving 54 percent of the vote.
The outcome of the election, in one of the lowest turnouts on record, signaled a defeat for labor unions here, which had spent tremendous time and effort to elect Wendy Greuel, the city controller. 
''This election was never for sale,'' Mr. Garcetti said in a news conference Wednesday afternoon. ''People want you to be independent.''
Mr. Garcetti and Ms. Greuel have spent years in City Hall, and they portrayed themselves as moderate Democrats, though the race was nonpartisan. Ms. Greuel won the backing of the city's most influential unions, but Mr. Garcetti turned that into a liability, saying it would prevent her from securing concessions, particularly on pensions.
The race generated a record $33 million in spending, including outside money from political action committees. Those groups, including the union that represents workers from the Department of Water and Power, spent more than $3 million supporting Ms. Greuel.
The city still faces a roughly $100 million budget gap and must contend with growing public pension liabilities. Mr. Garcetti also faces a host of more prosaic problems, like potholes and tattered streets, something he acknowledged and even seemed to embrace on Wednesday.
''We have to fix basic things, not just patch potholes but pave the streets,'' he said. But with the highest unemployment rate among large cities, Mr. Garcetti said his top priority would be creating jobs. ''We don't want to just have unemployed people going back to work, but we want to make sure they have a career path.''
Mr. Garcetti, 42, will become the city's youngest top official in modern history and the first elected Jewish mayor.
As the results trickled in Tuesday night, Mr. Garcetti confidently told hundreds of supporters at a Hollywood nightclub that the city had entrusted him with its leadership and that he would not let Angelenos down. ''Los Angeles is ready to put the recession in the rearview mirror and become the city of opportunity that I grew up in once again,'' he said. ''It's time for Los Angeles not just to be a big city, but a great city once again. Whether you're down and out or whether you're at the top, we all believe one thing: that L.A. is worth fighting for.''
Ms. Greuel, who did not concede the race until Wednesday morning, used part of her speech on Tuesday night to defend her support from labor unions. ''You know, a lot of people were telling me I needed to throw working people under the bus to win this race, but that was never going to happen under my watch,'' she said.
At a news conference at her campaign office Wednesday, Ms. Greuel, who turns 52 on Thursday and who was vying to become the city's first female mayor, added, ''I may not have been able to break the glass ceiling, but we sure made a crack in it.''
Initial tallies from the city clerk showed that turnout was about 20 percent, one of the lowest rates on record for a runoff election. Mr. Garcetti, who represented Hollywood and the surrounding areas on the Council for the last 12 years, will take office on July 1.
Mr. Garcetti is the son of Gil Garcetti, who as district attorney prosecuted O. J. Simpson, and the grandson of Mexican immigrants who trace their roots to Italy; Mr. Garcetti speaks Spanish and used it frequently during the campaign.
Throughout the nearly two-year campaign, Mr. Garcetti did little to differentiate himself from Ms. Greuel. A survey from Loyola Marymount University of voters leaving the polls showed that Mr. Garcetti received far more support from Republicans than did Ms. Greuel, who had the support of the Chamber of Commerce and former President Bill Clinton. While Ms. Greuel did well in South Los Angeles, Mr. Garcetti won large parts of the urban center of the city and part of the suburban San Fernando Valley.
A ballot measure limiting the number of medical marijuana dispensaries in the city and raising taxes on purchases also passed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Garcetti and supporters at an election night party at the Hollywood Palladium. Despite a record low turnout, he handily won in his bid for mayor with 54 percent of the vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); HISTORY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



747 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Torches and Pitchforks for I.R.S. but Cheers for Apple

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- One thing became clear this week on Capitol Hill: It is better to be a tax dodger than a tax collector.
Armed with a blistering report that said Apple had avoided paying billions of dollars in taxes, senators this week had choice words for the company's chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, when he appeared before the Senate's Permanent Committee on Investigations on Tuesday.
They called him a ''pretty smart guy'' and praised the ''incredible legacy'' his company had left. They gushed over his products, calling Apple ''a great company'' that had managed to ''change the world.'' 
True, Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, vigorously attacked Mr. Cook over tax gimmicks. But the overall mood of the panel was summed up by Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat from Missouri, who declared, ''I love Apple!''
It was considerably different for the officials of the Internal Revenue Service, whose presence was also ''requested'' by lawmakers to face accusations that the agency had improperly targeted conservative Tea Party groups for special scrutiny.
On Wednesday, Lois Lerner, who leads the I.R.S.'s division on tax-exempt organizations, prompted angry denunciations from lawmakers by proclaiming her innocence and then quickly invoking her Fifth Amendment right to refuse to answer questions. Representative Tim Walberg, Republican of Michigan, marveled at the ''amount of ineptitude'' at the I.R.S. and proposed that Ms. Lerner's refusal to answer questions from the committee suggested ''there's some concern about criminality'' regarding what happened at the tax agency.
Representative John Mica, Republican of Florida, accused Ms. Lerner's former boss, Douglas Shulman, of having ''closed down or gagged'' I.R.S. employees from telling the truth.
In short, Wednesday's I.R.S. hearing felt like an inquisition -- unforgiving, angry, prosecutorial.
Mr. Cook, by contrast, took his hot seat in front of senators who seemed halfhearted in their desire to beat up on the rich guy who makes their iPhones, and whose products are far more popular than they are.
''With him, they were just not going to go up against an American success story,'' said Neil Eggleston, a veteran Washington lawyer who has prepared many government officials to face a grilling at the hands of lawmakers.
But Mr. Eggleston said Ms. Lerner and the other I.R.S. officials never had a chance at changing the narrative of their hearing. Before such sessions, Mr. Eggleston said, he is honest with his clients: ''You are going to get beat up. You are going to get yelled at. There's no way to turn the tide in your favor.''
The hearings of Mr. Cook were in striking contrast to those 15 years ago of Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, who was skewered by lawmakers and his rivals over using monopoly power to run over his business rivals.
Mr. Gates was disdainful of Washington and politicians when he arrived from Seattle for his first Capitol Hill appearance in 1998. That did not serve him well. Microsoft's Windows -- highly crash-prone at the time -- along with irritants like ''Clippy,'' the obsequious talking paper clip who popped up on computer screens offering to help write letters, hardly endeared Mr. Gates to consumers.
Not so Mr. Cook and Apple. Even the often-cantankerous Mr. McCain, who as recently as 2008 still used an old-fashioned flip phone, concluded his questioning with a jocular tech support query. ''What I really wanted to ask you is why the hell I have to keep updating the apps on my iPhone all the time,'' Mr. McCain said, prompting guffaws from the dais and the audience.
Public relations experts who help witnesses survive Capitol Hill hearings say the tenor of the sessions is often set well before the witnesses take their seats. How much the witnesses subsequently are pummeled often depends on whether they are able to tap into any reservoirs of good will on their issues among the public.
As an example, when lawmakers created a spectacle in 2005 by demanding the testimony of the nation's top baseball stars during an investigation into steroid use, the questioning got rough. But the players were still heroes to millions -- certainly more so than most of the lawmakers. (After the hearings, congressional staff members crowded around the sluggers, asking for autographed baseballs.)
In contrast, lawmakers pilloried the top executives of the auto companies in 2008 after they admitted to flying on corporate jets to Washington to beg the government for as much as $25 billion in help. Their appeals, though, came in the middle of an economic crisis and were roundly denounced by an outraged public.
This week, Mr. Cook tapped into the public's good will to defuse the congressional anger. The I.R.S. officials had no such luck.
''This just shows the trust deficit that the I.R.S. has with the American public,'' said Kevin Madden, a veteran Republican strategist who advises corporate clients on communications strategies. ''The only thing that the American public hates more than the Congress right now is the I.R.S.''
There is always the possibility that a witness can change his or her fortunes by saying just the right thing at a congressional hearing.
Mr. Cook was well prepared, observers of his testimony said. During the hearing, he appeared to know as much about tax policy as the lawmakers asking him questions. (Mr. Cook might also have been helped by the ''reality distortion field'' that journalists often joked surrounded his predecessor, Steve Jobs, during rollouts of the latest ''magical'' iPhone or iPad.)
But Mr. Madden and others said the I.R.S. officials could hardly have said anything to defuse the anger, especially among Republicans eager to keep the issue alive.
Perhaps that was part of Ms. Lerner's calculation when she decided to make an opening statement -- and then shut up.
''I know that some people will assume that I've done something wrong,'' she said. ''I have not. One of the basic functions of the Fifth Amendment is to protect innocent individuals, and that is the protection I'm invoking today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, J. Russell George of the Treasury, Douglas Shulman, former I.R.S. chief, and Lois Lerner of the I.R.S. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, spoke with a Senate committee this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); SMARTPHONES (72%); LAWYERS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (89%); TIM WALBERG (76%); CARL LEVIN (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); STEVEN JOBS (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); JOHN L MICA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



748 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Setting Worker Against Worker

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
Perhaps the least expected and appreciated gift of reality television is its capacity for redemption. Sure, people go on TV to get their hearts broken or to fight over meaningless things, but for every villain, there are many more heroes.
And if individuals can be lionized by reality television, then why not companies? 
In this way, ''Does Someone Have to Go?'' which has its premiere Thursday on Fox, is a boon. A reality show set at various small companies, it's part docuseries, part gauche game show. At each office, the bosses cede authority to the workers, who decide whether to punish their colleagues with pay cuts, demotions or firings.
It bears repeating: This is a show in which people might lose their jobs.
For companies, this is a victory, reinforcing the idea that what's wrong with the American workplace is the workers. The problems discussed aren't about the structure of the company, or the state of its chosen industry and market, or the economy as a whole. Employees are the enemy here, bolstering the fanciful and generally wrong idea that one bad apple spoils the lot.
Second, the show paints bosses as benevolent and open-eared, willing to let the wisdom of the masses guide their decision making. The truth is more sinister, though: bosses are merely activating lower-level staffers to do the dirty work for them.
As a tool of corporate propaganda, it's more subtle than, say, ''Undercover Boss'' on CBS, which paints chief executives as forward-thinking emperors who willingly hide their true identities to see what life in their companies' trenches is really like. That show is a public relations dream, an hourlong ad for corporate responsibility -- great employees are rewarded, slackers are dealt with ethically and firmly, and the integrity of the company remains intact.
But ''Undercover Boss'' works from the top down. Looking at a company from the bottom up is invariably a messier proposition.
The first two episodes of ''Does Someone Have to Go?'' focus on Velocity Merchant Services, a seller of credit-card processing systems with about 70 employees based in Downers Grove, Ill. About 20 people at the company are on the show, including the founder, Dema Barakat, and her husband, Danoush Khairkhah, who is the chief executive.
Complicating the situation is that Velocity is a family-run business. The company employs no fewer than four people related to Ms. Barakat, including the gossipy Tina, a cousin, and Kout, Ms. Barakat's mother, who is perceived as a highly paid underperformer, resented by the staff.
Thursday's premiere episode is the first of two parts -- tensions are revealed, arguments are started and the employees vote on whom they think should be up for termination. The squabbles are petty, ill-informed and sometimes personal, and seemingly dredge up unacknowledged tensions around race and age. In next week's episode, the fallout comes. (There are six episodes in all, covering three companies.)
The stakes, as they are presented, are dramatic. For signing up to be on this show, employees -- who were not required to participate, according to press materials; Fox declined to say if those who did were compensated -- run the risk of conflict, humiliation and, possibly, unemployment. (Presumably, these workplaces are not unionized.) And that's to say nothing of whatever long-term internal damage is done to the company for choosing to unearth all its buried tensions in such a public arena.
This is reality television's ''Lord of the Flies'' or ''The Hunger Games'' or ''The Running Man.'' On next week's episode, people will be shown pleading for their jobs -- their jobs. The preview clips alone are heart-rending and barely ethical. It is impossible not to be invested in the outcome, and not to feel that the people whose livelihoods are on the line are pawns not just of their bosses but also of the show's producers and the network, all of whom face far less severe stakes.
Depending on the short- and long-term outcomes, this show may be remembered as one of the signature reality-TV intrusions into the more sacred areas of private life: think of ''Kid Nation,'' ''Who Wants to Marry a Multi-Millionaire'' and the never-aired ''Welcome to the Neighborhood.''
The vote is unkind, of course: No amount of wishing one could change the circumstances of one's employment can compare to the actual power of holding someone's financial fate in your hand. Velocity's workers appear to take the task seriously, but it can't be taken seriously enough. Whatever the outcome, it will be awful. And entrancing. Shield your eyes.
Does Someone Have to Go?
Fox, Thursday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
Produced by Endemol USA. Cris Abrego and Fernando Mills, executive producers; Scott Teti, co-executive producer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Does Someone Have to Go? Employees of Velocity Merchant Services in this Fox reality show on Thursday night at 9 Eastern and Pacific times
 8 Central time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS TOMKO/FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); ETHICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LAYOFFS (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



749 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: In a Plus for Electrics, Tesla Repays a Big Federal Loan Early

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
The taxpayer no longer has to worry about Tesla Motors.
Tesla, the electric carmaker, on Wednesday paid off a $465 million loan that the Energy Department made in 2010. The repayment is a lift to the Obama administration, whose clean-energy loan programs faced criticism after the collapse of Solyndra, the solar panel maker. The company, using money it raised last week in the markets, is repaying the government nine years before its loan was due.
''Today's repayment is the latest indication that the Energy Department's portfolio of more than 30 loans is delivering big results for the American economy while costing far less than anticipated,'' Ernest Moniz, the energy secretary, said in a statement. 
Tesla's payment will be the latest source of excitement to its supporters. But whether Tesla remains a good advertisement for government aid partly depends on how the company now performs. Should Tesla falter badly, it will only highlight the risks of lending to experimental companies.
Electric car enthusiasts have rushed to buy its main product, the Model S, a high-priced luxury sedan. Tesla also has plenty of fans in the markets, where investors who have piled into the company's shares, in the belief that Tesla will find plenty of buyers for its cars.
Elon Musk, who co-founded and leads Tesla, issued a statement thanking the Energy Department, Congress and taxpayers for the loan. ''I hope we did you proud,'' he said.
After the demise of Solyndra in 2011, government efforts to subsidize clean-energy companies came in for special scrutiny. Mitt Romney included Tesla in a batch of companies he called ''losers'' during last year's presidential contest.
Tesla's exit from the government loan may now refresh the debate over how much support to give young, clean-energy firms.
''Tesla is repaying early and it's a great vindication,'' said Greg Kats, president of Capital-E, a firm that invests in clean-energy companies. ''Tesla has really helped push the Big Three automakers down the energy efficiency track.''
The Energy Department on Wednesday said that losses on its loans were equivalent to 2 percent of its $34 billion portfolio.
Tesla has not fully weaned itself from government support. Buyers of Tesla cars can get substantial tax credits that reduce the purchase price. After a $7,500 tax credit, the lowest-cost Model S is $62,400.
The company is also able to generate large amounts of revenue from selling green energy credits to other automakers. Morgan Stanley estimates that Tesla can cover its capital expenditures this year from selling those credits.
Tesla was able to pay back the loan all at once because it took advantage of a meteoric rise in its stock price. Its soaring share prices helped it raise approximately $1 billion in the market last week by selling new stock and debtlike securities.
''The reason the loan is being paid off is not because of vehicle sales,'' said Patrick J. Michaels, a director at the Cato Institute, a libertarian-leaning research group.
Tesla started delivering the Model S to consumers earlier this year and expects to sell 21,000 cars in all of 2013. But it is not clear whether the initial burst of demand for its sedan was merely the result of enthusiasts rushing to get their cars. Skeptics doubt the market is as big as the company projects, and expect the shares to plunge when that becomes apparent. While Tesla has made ambitious targets for selling cars, its more immediate financial projections seem less impressive. It recently suggested that cash flows from its operations might not be positive in the second quarter and it seemed to forecast a drop in North American sales in the second half of the year.
One perceived weakness in Tesla's plans is the relative expense of the Model S. The company may face only limited demand until it comes up with a substantially cheaper car.
''They are going to have to have a vehicle that costs much less than $100,000,'' Mr. Michaels said.
Though Tesla is on an upswing now, the Energy Department appeared to have some concerns about the company during the life of the loan. In several instances, the department softened the conditions of the loan. These amendments to important covenants might have allowed Tesla to avoid falling into a default, which could have been embarrassing for the Energy Department after the collapse of Solyndra.
Defenders of the amendments say it is common for investors to change the terms of financing for young companies. Also, the changes show that the Energy Department spotted that Tesla had potential and was wise to make the adjustments.
''Tesla is arguably making the most exciting car in the world today,'' said Mr. Kats, who worked in the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. ''This loan program has exceeded expectations.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Tesla Model S was introduced at the 2013 North American International Auto Show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 A Tesla Model S at the factory in Fremont, Calif. Electric car enthusiasts are flocking to the Model S, which is a luxury sedan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); SEDANS (73%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (72%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (92%); SOLYNDRA INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (92%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



750 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: 'We Can Make a Difference, if We're Willing to Fight for It'

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
To hear him tell it as a newly declared candidate for mayor, former Representative Anthony D. Weiner was a force to be reckoned with on three of the most important issues to New Yorkers: public safety, affordable health insurance and treatment for rescue workers sickened at the site of the World Trade Center attack. ''We can make a difference -- if we're willing to fight for it,'' he says in his video announcement on YouTube. But while Mr. Weiner was known as a fighter, he was not so well known for making a difference.
ON SCREEN Mr. Weiner is shown with his wife and baby; in a childhood snapshot with friends; and at news conferences as a congressman. These images alternate with shots of a Manhattan street, subways and bridges, houses and apartments, and mothers wheeling children in strollers. He addresses the camera outside his childhood home, his elementary school and a corner pizzeria, and is shown speaking with police officers, small-business owners, doctors and old people. The ad closes with his wife, Huma Abedin, smilingly at his side. 
ACCURACY Much of the video is devoted to reintroducing Mr. Weiner to New Yorkers as a product of a decidedly middle-class upbringing, as one of two working parents sharing responsibility for their son, and as someone concerned about the challenges facing middle-class New Yorkers today. But the video does highlight three elements of Mr. Weiner's Congressional record.
In voice-over, for one, he boasts that ''I got a billion dollars to put more cops on the beat.'' It is true that Mr. Weiner tried for years to revive a Clinton-era program that let local police departments apply for grants to hire more officers. The 2009 economic stimulus package contained $1 billion to do just that, although Mr. Weiner was not among its initial sponsors. But while viewers of the video might reasonably assume that at least some of those new officers were ''on the beat'' in New York, in fact the money bypassed the city in favor of places with higher crime rates and weaker economies. Mr. Weiner was left to express ''outrage'' that New York was ''left out in the cold.''
Mr. Weiner next says he ''fought to get sick 9/11 first responders the help they deserved.'' The legislation to pay for medical care for rescue workers sickened at the site of the World Trade Center attack took years to make it past Republican opposition. In the House, that push was led by Carolyn B. Maloney and Jerrold Nadler, both New York Democrats, and Peter T. King, a New York Republican. Mr. Weiner, while passionate, was not a major force in the deal making. ''This thing took a lot of bipartisan effort, and that wasn't a hallmark of Anthony Weiner's,'' said Robert Livingston, a Republican lobbyist for trade center contractors. Indeed, Mr. Weiner drew enormous attention to the issue -- and to himself -- by erupting in a furious tirade against Mr. King that other New York Democrats saw as needlessly damaging to a delicate effort to line up Republican support.
Finally, Mr. Weiner says he ''led the campaign for real health reform that regular people can afford.'' Mr. Weiner did speak out for a single-payer, ''Medicare-for-all'' health care system, and was sharply critical of President Obama's decision not to pursue it. But this ''campaign'' was unsuccessful. Here again, Mr. Weiner's go-it-alone style in Congress -- and his razor-sharp verbal bite -- earned him hours of television airtime and a national following among liberals, but little else to show for it.
SCORECARD The video works hard to soften Mr. Weiner's sharper edges, contain the radioactivity of his humiliating exit from politics a few years ago by referring to it only briefly in a higher-minded context, and make it easier for middle-class New Yorkers to relate to him -- something that he would not have had to work so hard at a few years ago. Making the case that Mr. Weiner is the most qualified person to be the next mayor will apparently have to wait.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony D. Weiner and his wife in his new campaign video. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MAYORS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CRIME RATES (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (52%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (91%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); PETER T KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



751 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Luring the Millisecond Investor

BYLINE: By DAN HORCH and NATHANIEL POPPER; Dan Horch reported from São Paulo, Brazil, and Nathaniel Popper from New York.

 BODY:
SÃO PAULO, Brazil -- At a time when the mere phrase ''high-frequency trading'' makes some investors queasy, Brazil's stock exchange is putting out the digital welcome mat.
In recent years, the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange in São Paulo has taken steps to make its market more friendly to high-speed traders, even as many regulators around the world are casting an increasingly skeptical eye on the sector after a series of well-publicized market malfunctions in the United States.
Lawmakers in Canada, Australia and the European Union have been looking at imposing limits on such traders, whose investment time horizons are measured in milliseconds rather than months.
''Given the attention and the political discourse on the perceived dangers of H.F.T., exchanges are very reticent to be aggressive in promoting and attracting high-frequency trading,'' said Andy Nybo, an analyst at the Tabb Group. 
But in Brazil -- as well as in other developing economies like Chile and Mexico -- exchanges are actively courting high-speed traders without much resistance from their regulators. The appeal is that the traders can execute thousands of trades a second, resulting in big fees for the exchanges.
The BM&F Bovespa, which closed its open trading pits in 2009 in favor of electronic trading networks, is ramping up efforts to support computerized trading. Last month, the Brazil stock exchange introduced a new lightning-fast computer system, known as Puma, that allows high-speed traders to get in and out of trades more quickly. The exchange has offered these traders discounts since October 2010.
The BM&F Bovespa is ''very open about what they are looking to do. They really have been aggressive in welcoming all types of strategies,'' Mr. Nybo said.
The stocks on the Brazilian exchange are cumulatively worth $1.2 trillion, but the average daily trading volume on the exchange is only about $3.7 billion. In the United States, a single major stock like Apple can trade more than that each day.
The comparatively low volumes are in part a reflection of the relatively limited involvement of high-speed traders, who still only account for about 10.6 percent of all stock trades in Brazil. Although that is up from 8.5 percent in 2012, it is still a fraction of trading in other large global markets. In the United States, such firms dominate a majority of the trading, and in Europe, they are responsible for about 45 percent of the trading, according to Celent, a research and consulting firm.
The Brazilian exchange's push seems like a risky gambit to many critics of the acceleration of American markets over the last decade. High-frequency traders have been accused of using technology to move share prices for their own advantage and to trick traditional investors. They have also taken some of the blame for market mishaps like the ''flash crash'' in May 2010, when stock indexes dropped nearly 10 percent in less than half an hour.
Wallace C. Turbeville, a senior fellow at Demos, a research group in New York, said most offers made by high-frequency trading firms were ''illusory'': they exist not to be executed, but to measure, distort and exploit market sentiment, increasing volatility and costs for other investors.
Brazilian executives say they believe they have been able to avoid problems through strict regulation. They are also trying to keep at bay many of the other technological developments that have complicated American and European markets. Brazil has, for instance, banned dark pools, private venues where trades can be executed out of the public eye.
And unlike in the United States, which has 13 public stock exchanges, the BM&F Bovespa remains the only place to trade stocks in Brazil.
Cicero Vieira, the BM&F Bovespa's chief operating officer, said a single trading environment meant computerized trading firms had fewer opportunities for arbitrage -- simultaneously selling high in one place and buying low in another -- which should keep high-frequency trading from growing past 20 percent or so of total volume.
''When it comes to H.F.T.'s, there is no such thing as zero risk,'' Mr. Vieira said. ''Our philosophy is to contain the impact of errors.''
Danielle Tierney, an analyst with the Aite Group, a financial advisory firm in Boston, said that Brazil's tough regulations, including a prohibition on anonymous trading, and its less complicated market structure had helped prevent the problems that have drawn scrutiny in America.
''Risk controls can always fail, but compared to where we were in the U.S. in 2010, Brazil is much better prepared,'' she said. She added that having a single stock exchange with low trading volume makes it easier to spot problems.
Brazil's market regulator, the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, has so far left regulations governing high-frequency trading to the exchange, but it says it is observing the segment closely.
For the BM&F Bovespa, the push to attract high-speed traders provides a way to keep out competitors. Direct Edge, a United States exchange with close ties to electronic trading desks, has announced that it intends to operate in Brazil. In the United States and Europe, upstart exchanges won market share by being more accommodating to speedy traders.
The BM&F Bovespa is also eager to get the benefits that electronic trading has brought to the United States. Several academic studies have suggested that the competition among the firms has led to smaller differences in the spread between the prices at which traders are willing to buy and sell stocks, making trading cheaper for slower investors.
''That will increase liquidity and reduce spreads and distortions,'' Mr. Vieira said.
Brazil has been steadily making its systems more hospitable to high-frequency firms. In 2009, the exchange opened the door to more computerized traders by creating a data center that allowed firms to co-locate within a few feet of the exchange's server, cutting down the delays associated with data traveling through fiber optic cables.
Chris Concannon, a partner at the New York-based electronic trading firm Virtu Financial, said that the exchange had worked ''very hard at encouraging new participants into the market, both electronic and traditional.''
But the exchange ran into the limits of the speed of their own computer systems. The new Puma system cuts the time for order execution to around a single millisecond from 30 while increasing stability and capacity. The technology was developed together with America's largest futures exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The BM&F Bovespa and the CME own 5 percent stakes in each other. Ms. Tierney estimates that Puma cost at least $200 million and perhaps as much as $500 million.
The new technology has been available since 2011 to traders on Brazil's derivatives markets, which BM&F Bovespa also operates, and is scheduled to include the bond market by early next year.
Mr. Concannon said that they had already noticed a ''substantial improvement in the exchange performance with these upgrades.''
The eagerness of high-speed firms to enter Brazil points to their search for new markets as they experience difficulties in sustaining their profits in the highly competitive United States. Most of the high-speed trading activity has so far come from non-Brazilian firms like Virtu. Brazilian brokers have been winning some of this business and consequently welcoming the developments.
Yet, there are still those who sound caution on these initiatives. Felipe Santos, responsible for electronic trading at the São Paulo fund manager Equitas Investimentos, said that although high-frequency trading might make it easier for everyone to buy and sell stock in big companies, especially the largest ones, it had its limits.
''You cannot create volume out of thin air,'' he said. ''You need real investors, too.''Dan Horch reported from São Paulo, Brazil, and Nathaniel Popper from New York.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The old trading pit at the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange in São Paulo, which is now used as a backdrop for TV reporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YASUYOSHI CHIBA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Cicero Vieira, BM&F Bovespa's chief operating officer, said the exchange's single trading environment helped to limit risk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG SALIBAN/ BM&F BOVESPA) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: BOLSA DE VALORES DE SAO PAULO (BOVESPA) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



752 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Amid Deflation Fight, Japan Keeps to Its Bold Policy

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The Bank of Japan stood pat on monetary policy Wednesday amid market anxiety over volatility in bond markets, which has threatened to undermine the country's battle to end deflation and stimulate growth in the giant economy.
In a unanimous vote, the bank's board stuck to its strategy of expanding the monetary base at an annual pace of 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion yen, or $586 billion to $684 billion, through purchases of government bonds, commercial debt and other assets. 
Haruhiko Kuroda, the bank's new governor, pledged to ''respond flexibly'' to the recent moves in Japanese government bond yields, as markets ''searched for a new equilibrium.'' He stressed that there was no cause for immediate concern.
''Yields are up, but at this stage there is no large impact on the real economy,'' Mr. Kuroda said at a news conference after the bank's decision.
He said that the central bank would continue to make large bond purchases to ''keep up the downward pressure on interest rates.'' He has also suggested that the bank would adjust the way it bought bonds in the market.
At its first policy meeting under Mr. Kuroda last month, the bank unleashed what analysts have called a ''shock and awe'' monetary policy, a sea change for a bank that had come to be known in recent years for its caution and conservatism.
Declaring he would do ''whatever it takes'' to combat falling prices, Mr. Kuroda announced that the bank would seek to double Japan's monetary base, as well as the bank's holdings of Japanese government bonds, by the end of 2014.
In recent days, worries have grown about rising interest rates in the government bond market, which could threaten Japan's monetary policy. Japan is vulnerable to rising borrowing costs because of its high public debt, which is twice the size of its economy. Bonds are also the main financial asset held by banks, pension funds and insurance companies, making a surge in debt yields perilous.
The scale of Japan's quantitative easing is striking. Assuming that the Japanese economy grows by 2 percent a year, the Bank of Japan would expand its assets to just under 60 percent of the country's gross domestic product, according to estimates from CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.
The assets of the Federal Reserve, which now total about 20 percent of the American economy, and the European Central Bank's assets, which come to about 28 percent of the euro zone's G.D.P., pale in comparison.
Japan stands out in another important way. Under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office in December and has been the main champion of the bank's new boldness, Japan is coupling its monetary push with heavy government spending.
Barely two months into office, Mr. Abe pushed through an emergency stimulus package of 10 trillion yen, and last week the Japanese Parliament passed an initial budget of 92.6 trillion yen for 2013, with heavy spending on public works.
By contrast, the Fed and the European Central Bank have been forced to depend on monetary policy alone to stave off stagnation and bring about an economic recovery. In both the United States and Europe, a significant increase in government spending remains controversial.
Still, critics have pointed to Japan's skyrocketing public debt as proof that such spending is not sustainable. The latest spending packages, they say, will be the final push that could send Japan plummeting into a Europe-like debt crisis. Defenders of the bank's monetary policy had argued that Japan's bold stimulus efforts would not push interest rates higher, because the central bank promises to buy bonds the government issues.
But in recent days, yields have been volatile, with the key 10-year nominal government bond yield hitting five-year highs last week before later settling down. Traders blamed the central bank's purchases, saying they created a lack of liquidity in bond markets.
''We think Kuroda has done a great job in boosting asset prices by raising asset price inflation expectation, but he now has to calm down the sentiment in bond market,'' Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan, said in a research note. ''This is quite challenging.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Haruhiko Kuroda, the governor of the Bank of Japan, said the central bank would continue to make large bond purchases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YUYA SHINO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEFLATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); INSURANCE (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



753 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: When America Stops Importing Energy

BYLINE: By IAN BREMMER and KENNETH A. HERSH

 BODY:
You've probably heard by now about the American energy revolution. Breakthroughs in drilling technology have opened access to enough new oil and gas reserves in the United States to dramatically reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil.
The numbers tell the story: U.S. oil production has reversed its 30-plus year decline; U.S. imports from OPEC producers have fallen more than 20 percent in the past three years; U.S. natural gas reserves and production are up significantly and prices have dropped 75 percent in the past five years. The International Energy Agency forecasts that the United States could become the world's largest oil producer by 2020 and may be energy self-sufficient by 2035. That's a game changer.
While this is not a free lunch, it should not be feared. The production process is complicated and expensive, and if the industry is not careful there can be risks to the environment. But the potential is staggering. Significant domestic job growth and economic expansion has begun. 
But let's look beyond the impact on the United States and consider a few of the more profound implications for the rest of the world, because this revolution is also a game changer for international politics and the global economy.
The axiom of ''resource scarcity'' has been one of the dominant forces shaping global geopolitics and economics since the end of World War II. Now, thanks to the U.S. oil and gas industry's technological and entrepreneurial savvy, we have ushered in an era in which ''resource abundance'' will be the norm. The technology will be used to turn the U.S. into an energy exporter and also unlock hidden reserves in other countries. The resulting surge in supply means that the global energy sector will begin to behave like a more ''normal'' market, one in which demand and supply are in better balance and less power is concentrated in the hands of select producers.
Energy-rich countries like Russia, Saudi Arabia or Venezuela could be in serious trouble. Higher prices and market power have allowed their rulers to boost their domestic popularity with subsidies and other social spending projects, but when their customers produce more of their own energy or have other suppliers available, they will be forced to adapt quickly and intelligently or deal with the consequences.
The other great shift will come from a change in U.S. foreign policy. At the beginning of World War II, the United States supplied about 63 percent of the world's oil and Texas was the global supplier of last resort. The Arabian Peninsula, Iran and Iraq together produced less than 5 percent. But in 1960, new discoveries encouraged Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Venezuela to band together to form the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Over the next decade, Middle Eastern and North African countries ramped up production by 13 million barrels per day, and OPEC members began to claim a bigger share of profits from Western oil companies operating on their territory. Qatar, Indonesia, Algeria, Libya, the United Arab Emirates and Nigeria joined the cartel.
Then came the tipping point. In March 1971, Texas reached maximum productive capacity. Over the next five years, U.S. oil imports nearly doubled and other producers gained critical market power. The Yom Kippur War in October 1973 triggered the OPEC oil embargo and the market distortions we've lived with ever since. That's when access to foreign oil became a central preoccupation of U.S. foreign and security policy.
Fast forward to 2013. As America drives toward a new era of energy self-sufficiency, Washington will be less willing to risk lives and spends billions on ensuring the free flow of oil and gas through dangerous places. That's especially important for the Middle East -- a region where Ottomans, then Europeans, and lately Americans have, for better and for worse, helped keep the peace. The United States isn't about to abandon the region entirely, not with the global economy still so dependent on the flow of commerce through the Strait of Hormuz and Israel's security at risk. But it's natural that as America becomes less reliant on the Middle East for energy, Washington's willingness to accept risks and burdens there will diminish, or at least become harder to justify in a fiscally constrained era.
Interestingly, even as America becomes less vulnerable to that region's volatility, China will become more so -- and more directly involved in its politics as a result. The International Energy Agency has forecast that China will import nearly 80 percent of its oil by 2030, and much of that crude will come from North Africa and the Middle East. Some estimates suggest that China holds larger shale gas deposits than even the United States, but for the moment it lacks the technology and know-how to exploit them.
Even if China gets up to speed quickly, it will take years for all the requisite infrastructure to be put in place and for its domestic oil and gas industry to mature to the point where it can deliver significant volumes year in and year out.
Thus as China's willingness to intervene in the politics of other countries rises, its leaders will want to extend their influence. And energy-rich Middle Eastern governments that have lost big customers in America and Europe will welcome all the deep-pocketed foreign friends they can find.
Like all revolutions, America's new energy bonanza raises some fascinating questions. How might a lighter U.S. presence and heavier Chinese involvement change the world's most volatile neighborhood? What can the next generation of Saudi leaders expect for their country's future in a world where OPEC has lost much of its market power? Will Qatar's support for Muslim Brotherhood governments in other Arab states and China's interest in using the United Arab Emirates as an offshore trading center for its currency leave the Saudis dangerously isolated? Can Iran's revolution survive the need to build a more modern economy?
A world in which the United States is less involved in answering these questions is a new world indeed.
Ian Bremmer is president of Eurasia Group and author of ''Every Nation for Itself: Winners and Losers in a G-Zero World.'' Kenneth A. Hersh is chief executive officer of NGP Energy Capital Management.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); WORLD WAR II (64%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



754 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: How a Big-Bank Failure Could Unfold

BYLINE: MARC JARSULIC and SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: All the talk of safeguards and international cooperation is likely to prove ineffectual if a huge international bank fails, two economists write. 

 BODY:
 Marc Jarsulic, chief economist at Better Markets, is the author of "Anatomy of a Financial Crisis." Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
Defenders of big banks are adamant that we have fixed the problem of too big to fail. Organizations such as the Bipartisan Policy Center and the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell assert that the critical breakthrough was the introduction of new orderly liquidation powers under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation, enabling the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to handle the resolution or managed failure of very large financial companies.
This is the core of their argument that no financial reforms or higher capital requirements are needed. This discussion can get a little abstract, so to understand the details - and why the bank advocates' position is wrong - consider what could happen if there were a hypothetical problem at a major international financial conglomerate such as Deutsche Bank or Citigroup. 
Deutsche Bank is not currently in obvious trouble, but during the financial stress and instability at the end of 2008, the Taunus Corporation, the American subsidiary of Deutsche Bank, looked very vulnerable to the financial storm building around it. Although the bank had more than $396 billion in assets, making it one the top 10 bank-holding companies in the United States, it had equity of negative $1.4 billion on an accounting basis (i.e., its assets were worth less than its liabilities).
A large fraction of Taunus's liabilities, perhaps $294 billion, consisted of short-term dollar borrowing, in the form of uninsured deposits at its essentially unregulated branch and agency network, along with what is known as repo and commercial paper borrowing.

It was not clear how much help Taunus's thinly capitalized global parent could or would provide. But the United States government did not choose to find out, because bankruptcy accompanied by distressed sales of hundreds of billions in dollar-denominated assets could have produced another Lehman-like shock.
Instead, the Federal Reserve stepped in to replace short-term creditors that chose to run on Taunus. Taunus borrowing - through the discount window, the Term Auction Facility, the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, the Term Securities Lending Facility and Single-Tranche Open Market Operations - peaked at $66 billion in October 2008.
The Federal Reserve also began huge currency swaps with the European Central Bank, making it possible for Deutsche Bank to swap euros for dollars and meet the dollar funding needs of Taunus (see this speech by the Federal Reserve governor Jeremy Stein, from December 2012).
Deutsche Bank (and indirectly Taunus) was also greatly assisted by the Fed and Treasury decision to rescue A.I.G. Deutsche Bank received $11.8 billion as a result of that rescue (in payments covering A.I.G. credit default swap and securities lending obligations that otherwise would not have paid out).
Taunus received this help from the United States government because its failure would have intensified an already chaotic financial situation. It was not provided because the Federal Reserve knew that, once the storm passed, Taunus's assets would be sufficient to repay its creditors. Accounting data said otherwise, and it was not possible for the Fed or anyone else to estimate the fundamental values of the assets located in the 180-odd Taunus subsidiaries. Taunus got United States government support because it was simply too big and too interwoven with the American financial system to fail.
We are now told by responsible government officials and leading bank lobbyists that the era of too big to fail has come to an end, because of Dodd-Frank legislative prohibitions on the rescue of individual companies, together with the legal authority of the F.D.I.C. to prevent the disorderly bankruptcy of big American financial companies by putting them into receivership using the new Orderly Liquidation Authority.
But the case of Taunus-Deutsche Bank illustrates that it is far from clear that these new provisions really signal the end of too big to fail. Officials are making promises not to provide what may be considered "bailouts" - but are these promises really credible?
It is true that Fed lending can no longer be funneled directly to a failing A.I.G.-type company, and we fully understand that the recently proposed requirements for foreign banking organizations doing business in the United States are designed to make banks like Taunus less likely to fail.
But the rewritten provisions of Fed emergency lending authority explicitly allow it to establish widely available lending facilities of exactly the type that helped keep Taunus afloat - with the difference being that the A.I.G. funding was company-specific, while Taunus was saved by lending programs available to a broader class of institutions or covering a class of assets.
The Fed will now need the agreement of the Treasury secretary before setting up the facilities, lending is restricted to solvent firms and chief executives may be required to certify solvency in writing. But solvency is an ambiguous concept in a crisis. It is hard to imagine that this will slow down bailouts by more than 15 minutes.
The F.D.I.C. will, in the future, be able to guarantee the debt of solvent distressed banks through programs like its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, which guaranteed hundreds of billions in unsecured bank borrowing during the crisis. The F.D.I.C. will now need the agreement of the Fed, the administration and Congress to establish the program. That might take a day or two.
Given circumstances similar to 2008, is it likely that Congress and the administration will choose to stand in the way of efforts to prevent a systemic meltdown? Would there be any serious resistance to deploying trillions dollars in loans and guarantees to keep big banks from failing?
If the Treasury secretary, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and the president of the New York Fed all attest, as they did in fall 2008, that the alternative would be the end of the world's financial system, Congress will acquiesce.
Nor is it obvious the Orderly Liquidation Authority would be able to wind down one of our large banks during a crisis. If past events are a guide, Citigroup will be one of the failing. It has its $1.9 trillion in assets dispersed across 2,372 subsidiaries that span the world. Just like any other company operating across borders, it is subject to the bankruptcy code and other laws of foreign jurisdictions where it does business. In the case of Citigroup this includes Britain, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan and other places.
So to smoothly "resolve" the Citigroup holding company, all the foreign jurisdictions, including creditors and courts, would need to stand back and allow the F.D.I.C. to determine the priority of claims under its Orderly Liquidation Authority.
Other jurisdictions might agree to some or all of this in a period of calm, but will they follow through if there is a general crisis?
When the F.D.I.C. says that a complex institution like Citigroup is insolvent, the amount of total losses will be unclear, and the harm to individual bank counterparties will be hard to forecast. If foreign regulators can preserve the interests of domestic creditors and counterparties of Citigroup by winding up Citigroup subsidiaries under domestic law, won't they have very strong incentive to do so?
The legal changes of which large bank supporters are most enamored, and which they contend are sufficient to end too big to fail, both suffer from potential time inconsistency. That is, they rest on promises that are unlikely to be fulfilled at the crucial moment.
Federal authorities have promised not to come to the rescue of large failing financial companies, but they still have more than enough permissible lending authority to do just that. And if that authority proves insufficient to the task, they will have every reason to expand it.
Foreign authorities may promise to allow the United States to resolve global banks under the Orderly Liquidation Authority, but when the time comes to use it, they are likely to have good reason to find a way around their agreements.
The Dodd-Frank Act does give regulators other authority that can effectively reduce the risk posed by large banks and nonbank financial institutions. Those institutions can be required to finance their operations using substantially more equity, thereby changing their incentives and buffering themselves and the public against their miscalculations. Their use of short-term debt can be constrained so that they can survive runs by uninsured short-term creditors. And if they cannot develop a credible plan for orderly resolution in the event of failure, they can be required to divest assets and activities to make such a resolution possible.
To date regulators have made only limited use of this authority. They need to do far more.

        
The Treasury's Mistaken View on Too Big to Fail
        
Filling a Fed Vacuum in Bank Supervision
        
Bernanke's Credibility on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
Equipping the Fed for a Future Crisis
        
Politics and Personalities at the Central Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); CURRENCIES (67%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Deutsche Bank AG; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Reserve System; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Today's Economist

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



755 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: May 23

BYLINE: INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Hezbollah and Europe; Fears of terrorism in Britain; Society&#8217;s ills in Greece; North Korean envoy in China; the end of European tax havens; tackling youth unemployment; art fair in Hong Kong; Gibraltar&#8217;s soccer bid. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Three of Europe's most powerful countries - Britain, France and Germany - have thrown their weight behind a push for the European Union to designate the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, a move that could have far-reaching consequences for the group's fund-raising activities on the Continent. Nicholas Kulish reports from Berlin.
In an attack that raised new fears of terrorism in Britain, a man walking near a military barracks in South London on Wednesday was rammed by a car and then hacked to death by two knife-wielding assailants, according to witness accounts carried by British news media. John F. Burns reports. 
In Greece, the perils of a drawn-out debt crisis are imprinted on its younger population - whose unemployment numbers are soaring - who turn to selling their bodies for money and to a dangerous, cheap new street drug for escape. Liz Alderman reports.
President Barack Obama plans to open a new phase in the nation's long struggle with terrorism on Thursday by restricting the use of drone strikes that have been at the heart of his national security strategy and shifting control of them away from the C.I.A. to the military. Charlie Savage and Peter Baker report.
A senior North Korean military official's visit to China on Wednesday appears to have been organized on short notice, and was probably prompted by North Korea's concerns about a planned meeting between President Xi Jinping of China and President Barack Obama, analysts said. Jane Perlez and Choe Sang-Hun report.
 BUSINESS From the rain-swept avenues of Luxembourg's capital to the sun-spangled lagoons of the British Virgin Islands in the Caribbean, the authorities are scrambling to shed the stigma of enabling tax avoiders and to figure out how to change their secretive ways without driving away lucrative foreign clients. Andrew Higgins reports from Luxembourg.
German leaders, heeding economists' warnings that the younger generation may become disillusioned with the European project, are counting on a series of bilateral agreements to help curb stubbornly high youth unemployment in the European Union. Melissa Eddy reports.
The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday approved a broad overhaul of the nation's immigration laws on a bipartisan vote, and sent the measure to the full Senate. The bill would make it much easier for science, math and engineering graduates of American universities to become permanent residents. Crucially, it would also lift the limits on how many immigrants are allowed in from each country, which has meant that citizens of populous countries like India end up waiting far longer than others. 
 ARTS Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi, the lone female director at Cannes this year, relives a painful chapter of her family history. Joan Dupont reports from Cannes.
There were no art fairs to speak of in Hong Kong before 2008. But this year, the metropolis, once derided as a cultural desert, nabbed a prize coveted by cities across the region - serving as Art Basel's only Asian outpost. Joyce Lau reports.
 SPORTS Gibraltar's bid to join European soccer's governing body as a full member, over Spain's objections, will be decided on Friday as a longtime dispute that mixes sports and politics continues. James Montague reports.
The Big Four is still alive and well as a tennis concept, but bringing Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray together in the same Grand Slam tournament is proving increasingly elusive. Christopher Clarey reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEZBOLLAH (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (83%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: XI JINPING (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); HONG KONG (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); FRANCE (92%); GIBRALTAR (92%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



756 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Job Hunting in Asia: Language Skills Count

BYLINE: BETTINA WASSENER


HIGHLIGHT: Westerners seeking work in places like Hong Kong and Singapore are finding that language skills &#8212; good Mandarin, in particular &#8212; have become more essential. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Asia has long exerted a magnetism for mobile Westerners in search of jobs and adventures. Tens of thousands of Europeans and Americans live in cities like Singapore and Hong Kong, which are financial and trading hubs with a long history of ties to the West. 
The global financial crisis only intensified the trend, prompting more and more Western expatriates to try their luck in Asia. The French seem particularly attracted by the possibilities that Asia has to offer - with the result that Hong Kong's French population has soared.
More recently, however, I was starting to hear more and more anecdotes about Westerners who wanted to find a job in Hong Kong or Singapore, but struggled to do so. Headhunters and recruiters told me that things have indeed become harder.
The main hurdle is that language skills - good Mandarin, in particular - have become more and more of a "must" for white-collar jobs here. 
Of course, the exact requirements depend on the job. A computer programmer in a back-office function may not need to speak anything other than English. But if the job is client-facing (in wealth management or retailing, for example) or involves dealing with local suppliers or partners, chances are that the employer will prefer someone who can speak the local language. 
"Language skills have become more and more important since the global financial crisis," George McFerran, managing director for Asia-Pacific at eFinancialCareers, an online jobs portal, said at a recent news conference. 
At the same time, as I write in this article, more local employees have the skills and experience to fill white-collar positions than they did 10 or 20 years ago. Employers, in other words, have more people to choose from - and Westerners who don't tick the box on the language front are finding it harder to compete. 
 What are your experiences of the job market in Asian hubs such as Singapore and Hong Kong? Have you struggled to land a job there - and what, in your eyes, have been the biggest obstacles? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%) Expatriate Life; Featured

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (96%); SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



757 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Britain Fines JPMorgan's Wealth Unit

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: British regulators fined JPMorgan Chase $4.7 million on Thursday for failings in its wealth management division. 

 BODY:
LONDON - British regulators fined JPMorgan Chase £3.1 million ($4.7 million) on Thursday for failings in its wealth management division. 
The Financial Conduct Authority said that unit's senior management had failed to provide clients adequate advice and carried out poor recording-keeping related to individuals' investments from January 2010 to February 2012.
The problems included not keeping client files up to date and failing to notify customers of the suitability of financial products.
"No matter who they are, customers of wealth managers should be able to expect the firm to keep complete, up-to-date client records so that they can give the right advice," Tracey McDermott, the Financial Conduct Authority's director of enforcement and financial crime, said in a statement. 
The regulator said poor record-keeping had not materially affected any JPMorgan client. The bank received a 30 percent discount for settling with authorities. The fine would have been £4.4 million without the discount.
Over the last three years, other banks, including HSBC and Barclays, have also faced stiff penalties related to the inappropriate sale of financial products to clients.
The new fine is the latest in a series of regulatory problems for JPMorgan. 
In the United States, for example, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is investigating charges that the bank misrepresented energy prices in a number of states. At least eight federal agencies are investigating JPMorgan, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

        
Responding to Financial Crisis, Britain Overhauls Its Regulators
        
A How-To Guide for Banks Facing Libor Settlements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTH MANAGEMENT (92%); FINES & PENALTIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FUTURES (73%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); DEREGULATION (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%) Financial Conduct Authority (Great Britain); Fines (Penalties); Great Britain; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Financial Conduct Authority (Great Britain); JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



758 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Goal)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Why Time May Be Running Out for Brazil's State Championships

BYLINE: JAMES YOUNG


HIGHLIGHT: Brazil&#8217;s state championships clutter the schedule and bore everyone from fans to players, but they are still worth saving. 

 BODY:
 BREAKING NEWS: The Premier League has announced that next year's top division will be played over seven months, rather than the current 10. The off-season will also be cancelled. Instead, for five months of the year the country's biggest clubs will play provincial tournaments against their much smaller lower-division neighbors. The Manchester giants City and Utd will be tested by not just Bolton and Wigan, but will also have trips to Hyde, Altrincham and Stalybridge Celtic. Players will risk injury on bumpy pitches, most of the games will be as competitive as a dust-up between Anderson Silva and Justin Bieber, and the resulting fixture squeeze will mean that there will be no time to accommodate FIFA international dates, so clubs will play a host of league fixtures without their star players, who'll be away on international duty. 
Except the sleekly corporate beasts of the Premier League would never stand for such nonsense. Risk Carlos Tévez or Robin Van Persie breaking a leg on a stray divot in Droylsden? Run their finely tuned thoroughbreds into the ground for no financial gain? Hardly. 
Those seeking a soccer planner's dream gone mad should instead look to Brazil. The 27 deeply idiosyncratic estaduais (state championships) run from January until the middle of May (the biggest, the Campeonato Paulista, can last for up to 23 matches). After a generous seven days of rest, the bedraggled players stumble into the 38-game Serie A campaign. At the same time, the better teams will still be playing in the Libertadores (up to 14 games), and even their dowdier rivals will be plodding through the Copa do Brasil. And there's still the unlovely Copa Sul-Americana to come. 
The 2013 incarnation of the estaduais has just finished. A superficial glance at Sunday's finals suggests not that much is wrong. In Belo Horizonte, Atlético and Cruzeiro slugged out an epic two-legged duel in front of packed houses at the Mineirão and Independência stadiums. Up in Salvador, Vítoria claimed soteropolitano bragging rights for the next few months by beating their hated rivals Bahia by a remarkable 8-4 aggregate score. And in São Paulo, Corinthians' Big Black and White Machine overpowered Neymar's punier Santos. Large crowds, wild celebrations and some of the most hyperbolic trophies on the planet completed the scene. 
But the drama of the estaduais finals masks the tedium and futility of the preceding four months. The competitions are often blamed for all that is wrong with Brazilian soccer. The average Serie A crowd in 2012 was a pitiful 13,000 - around the same as Australia's A-League, and considerably lower than the M.L.S. average. There are many reasons for this, including ticket prices recently judged to be the most expensive in the world (when compared with average earnings), but a saner footballing calendar, with more space between games, a longer off-season to allow anticipation to grow before the start of Serie A, and enough time for teams to take a day off when stars are away with the Seleção (Neymar played almost as many games for Brazil last year as he did for his club) is surely essential if the Brazilian domestic game is ever to fulfill its potential again. 
Worse still, runs the argument, the estaduais and the state based power structure that sustains them feeds the cronyism of the CBF (the Brazilian footballing authority) and its profoundly toxic president, Jose Maria Marin, a man who makes Mr. Burns from "The Simpsons" look as civic minded and big hearted as Father Christmas. 
Yet the estaduais have their defenders (and this writer is one of them, with a few hundred caveats). 
Dating to the beginning of the century, the state championships are much older than the still wet behind the ears national championship, which only officially started in 1971. They carry a wealth of tradition and history in their lockers. In some parts of the country, such as most of the north and large parts of the northeast of Brazil, where teams barely compete on a national level (the Brasileirão representation of many states begins and ends with a solitary Serie D hopeful) they are often the only game in town. And in a few states, such as Pernambuco, the estaduais can be vibrant, noisy affairs that seethe with the lifeblood of the game, the local rivalry. Making the estaduais shorter would seem to be a reasonable compromise - preserving a uniquely Brazilian footballing tradition, and at the same time easing fixture congestion.
The future of the state championships has long been the subject of fevered debate in Brazil. "And so the estaduais are with us again, the same as ever, the same arguments, the same criticism of the calendar ... the same bad pitches," the former Seleção great Tostão wrote recently. But for many years it seemed that the aforementioned state power structure and cronyism meant nothing would ever change. The estaduais had come down from the mount, and woe betide he who suggested that the Brazilian game might have anything to learn from football administration in other parts of the world. "What can the gringos teach us?" ran some of the more knuckleheaded thinking. "We've won five World Cups!"
It might be, however, that things are beginning to change. Atlético-PR, from Curitiba, used this year's Campeonato Paranaense simply to develop its under-23 team. Such is public apathy to the Campeonato Carioca, once the country's best estadual, that crowds are often counted in tens, rather than hundreds or thousands. Among journalists, fans and even players, opposition to the estaduais grows louder by the day.
Larger factors may be at play. Given the country's often unhappy history with foreign governments, from Portuguese colonizers to United States support for the 1964 military coup, and lost within its own endless borders, it is perhaps unsurprising that Brazil (if not all Brazilians) sometimes has an insular, wary view of the world. That is changing. Economic growth (now sputtering rather than roaring) has raised self-esteem and increased foreign trade. The country's international profile and role in the global game of thrones is increasing (a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council is hoped for). And now the World Cup and Olympics are on their way. Brazil has rarely been so visible to foreign eyes, and equally, rarely has the country been so conscious of being watched. Furthermore, in a footballing context, increased prosperity has meant greater access to overseas leagues via satellite TV, and now the packed houses of the Bundesliga, La Liga and the Champions League are just a click away. 
All of this places Brazilian domestic soccer in a global context in a way that it has not quite been before. And the exchange of ideas need not be a one-way street. The Brasileirão remains one of the most competitive in the world, and any one of five or six teams might lift this year's Serie A title. But in other respects much can be learned. Starting with a long, hard look at those sometimes loved, sometimes loathed, estaduais. 
 James Young lives in Brazil and writes for The Independent, The Blizzard, ESPN, World Soccer and others. He is currently working on a novel about soccer in Brazil's northeast. Follow him on Twitter.

        
FIFA Selects Goal-Line System
        
Copa Chaos in Brazil
        
U.S. Cup Qualifier: The View From Traffic in Brazil
        
Ronaldinho Soldiers On
        
In Mexico, Finals Are a Capital Affair

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); SPORTS INJURIES (72%); TICKET SALES (60%) Brazil; Soccer

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (72%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ENGLAND (72%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



759 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Thursday Reading: The Hard Road to a Vegetable Plot

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The hard road to a vegetable plot, phone timer apps help you stay on schedule, older adults may have flu immunity and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Portland, Ore., rejectsfluoridated water. (National)
        
Town's residents stay put, despite tornadoes. (National)
        
Existing-home sales hit three-year high. (Business)
        
Phone timer apps help you stay on schedule. (Business)
        
Avoiding swindles and spamin online search results. (Business)
        
The hard road to a vegetable plot. (Home)
        
Less ab, more flab in men's underwear ads. (Thursday Styles)
        
How a big-bank failure could unfold. (Economix)
        
Consumer group seeks recall of Jeep Grand Cherokees. (Wheels)
        
Another study takes aim at F.A.A.'s gadget ban. (Bits)
        
Earbuds(not pink) designed for women. (Gadgetwise)
        
A fitting screen protector for the iPhone 5. (Gadgetwise)
        
What's in your green tea? (Well)
        
Older adults may have flu immunity. (Well)
        
Not worried about a little baby fat. (Motherlode)
        
DNR by another name. (The New Old Age)
        
Hoping college doesn't go according to plan. (The Choice)
        
Airlines rake in fees. (In Transit)
        
Making chocolate hazelnut ice cream. (Diner's Journal)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); FLUORIDATION (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); AIRLINES (72%); EMAIL MARKETING (71%); WOMEN (69%) Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



760 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: What the Congress-Led Government Thinks It Got Right

BYLINE: HARI KUMAR


HIGHLIGHT: The United Progressive Alliance touted an average 8 percent annual growth rate as one of its major achievements in eight of the nine years it has been in power. 

 BODY:
NEW DELHI- In its last report card before the national elections, the Indian government acknowledged it was coming off a year of sluggish economic growth but promised citizens that it could bring back high growth rates seen in the first eight years the governing coalition has been in power. 
As the United Progressive Alliance, the coalition led by the Congress Party, prepares for parliamentary elections next year, it faces several challenges in winning a third five-year term, including a struggling economy, the recent desertion of two major allies and corruption allegations that forced two ministers to resign earlier this month. 
An A.B.P. News-A.C. Nielsen poll this week showed that 31 percent of respondents would vote for the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party if the national elections were held today, compared to the 20 percent who picked the Congress Party.
In its annual Report to the People, which was released Wednesday the government took the long view, citing an average 8 percent growth rate seen in the first eight years since the United Progressive Alliance, or the U.P.A., took the reins of the government.
The report said the past year was "disappointing," with the Indian economy expanding only 5 percent, but pointed out that this came at a time when euro zone members saw economic contractions and the United States experienced less than 2 percent growth.
"The central message is that U.P.A. government is working to realize your dream of an economically resurgent and socially just India," Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said at a coalition dinner at his residence in New Delhi on Wednesday to mark the end of another year in power.
He said the governing coalition has improved the economy, made economic growth more inclusive, improved governance and strengthened India's international relations.
Other achievements he cited include the near-universal enrollment of children in primary schools, increased literacy rates, higher agricultural wages and expanded access to health care. However, he said, "where access has been provided, quality is still an issue and we need to address these issues satisfactorily."
The Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., found plenty to dispute in the government's assessment, saying that the United Progressive Alliance had mismanaged the economy, tolerated corruption among officials, allowed "atrocities" against women and weakened India's position with regards to its neighbors Pakistan and China.
"Rarely has the nation witnessed the kind of cynicism against the government as is prevalent today," Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley, senior B.J.P. leaders, said in a joint statement on Wednesday. "Today, the Indian prime minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh, is synonymous with indecision, inability and silence."

        
Are India and Italy on a Collision Course?
        
Should Manmohan Singh Resign?
        
India's 'Common Man' Activist on Tireless Publicity Campaign
        
Parliament's 'Monsoon Session' Ends in Washout
        
Activists Against Corruption Claim Police Harassment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); LITERACY RATES (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (61%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%); FARM LABOR (50%) Bharatiya Janata Party; Corruption (Institutional); Elections; Indian National Congress; New Delhi (India); Singh, Manmohan; Swaraj, Sushma

ORGANIZATION: Bharatiya Janata Party; Indian National Congress

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (89%) Singh, Manmohan; Swaraj, Sushma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%) INDIA (98%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) New Delhi (India)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



761 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Dot Chat: From Energy Campaigners to Solar Finance Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: An online conversation with a young energy activist turned solar entrepreneur. 

 BODY:
 3:15 p.m. | Updated | 
I spent 45 minutes earlier today in an invigorating online discussion of new models for financing small solar-energy installations. The participants were Billy Parish, who at 31 is a founder of Mosaic, based in Oakland, Calif., through which small investors can earn interest financing the installation of solar panels, and Andreas Karelas, the executive director, of RE-volv, a nonprofit revolving fund also financing solar projects. 
I hope you'll listen. As I explain in the chat, these two young men embody the kind of innovative spirit more typically associated with chemists, engineers and other tinkerers. These entrepreneurs, in both the profit-making and philanthropic worlds, are inventors, as well. I wish them the best. 
[Video: Watch on Youtube.]
Here's a teaser, focused on Parish's transition from young climate campaigner pressing treaty negotiators to change hard positions to a still-young clean-energy entrepreneur. Parish earlier had mentioned the value of students pressing their university trustees to shed investments in fossil fuel stocks:
 Q. 
 The divestment movement on campuses has been helpful in building the pressure,... but there hasn't been an investment movement. In other words, it sounds like you're building the other side. It's like what I hear often. In basic communication on climate change, if you're going to scare somebody you better have an opportunity or a solution to move toward and that hasn't always been there. Is that what you're pursuing here, in a way?
 A. 
 To me it is the mirror image of the first half of my career. I was an advocate and pushing people to change their behavior and make different decisions and now I'm working on building the solutions and creating opportunities for people to make economical decisions that are also ecological decisions. The more we can bring those things into alignment, the faster we'll be able to make this change. Capitalism is a very, very powerful force on this planet and I don't see how we solve these problems without tapping into that power that ultimately we need.
 This morning's post is here: 
At 1 p.m. Eastern time, I'll be holding a live conversation with Billy Parish, who at 31 is a founder of the interesting new company Mosaic, based in Oakland, Calif., through which small investors can earn interest financing the installation of solar panels. Parish is also the co-author of "Making Good: Finding Meaning, Money, and Community in a Changing World."
You can post questions for us either beforehand or during the hourlong conversation using the Twitter hashtag #dotmosaic. Click here to follow the flow around that tag.
This is how Mosaic was described by my Times colleague David Bornstein in March: 
In January, a company called Mosaic, made a splash in the renewable energy world when it introduced a crowd-funding platform that makes it possible for small, non-accredited investors to earn interest financing clean energy projects. When Mosaic posted its first four investments online - solar projects offering 4.5 percent returns to investors who could participate with loans as small as $25 - the company's co-founder, Billy Parish, thought it would take a month to raise the $313,000 required. Within 24 hours, 435 people had invested and the projects were sold out. The company had spent just $1,000 on marketing. All told, Mosaic has raised $1.1 million for a dozen solar projects to date. Now it is connecting with other solar developers to identify new projects for financing. More than 10,000 people have already signed on and are standing by to invest. [Read the rest.]
The initial success of the company has come through the big drop in the cost of photovoltaic systems driven in part by China's aggressive push in that sector and also through various incentives available for solar installations in some states.
Can Mosaic and its investors continue to prosper as China's manufacturing blitz slows and subsidies shrink
Time will tell.
But Parish and his partners embody the kind of innovative zeal that will - even with some failures - be the source of progress in an era of high-speed change. This is what I've been calling "falling forward."
Parish is particularly interesting to me because of his life path. I first met him in 2005, when, as a founder of the Energy Action Coalition (he'd dropped out of Yale to pursue this in 2002 and has yet to finish his degree), he led a group of young campaigners at the climate treaty negotiations in Montreal. That was the year Rolling Stone named him a "Climate Hero."
Here he is in 2009, explaining what he would do as president. Now he's an energy entrepreneur. Like a migratory fish probing upstream, he's exhibited remarkable agility and pragmatism in trying to reach a laudable goal - an energy menu for humanity that can work for the long haul.
So please ask him, and me, anything you'd like (anything civil and constructive, of course) and we'll incorporate you into our chat today.
There are also donation-style models through which individuals can support solar projects. Andreas Karelas, executive director of one such organization, RE-volv, sent me this description of the project earlier this week:
Rather than offering individuals their money back with a return, like Mosaic does, RE-volv allows people to make donations, which we reinvest through a revolving fund to finance more and more solar projects. The fund earns a return, too. So the more projects that get funded, the more the fund earns, which enables it to grow faster and faster, creating a positive feedback loop.
RE-volv is actually installing its first community-based solar project, funded by 275 donors, as we speak on a nonprofit dance center in Berkeley, Calif.
 For the record | Back in January, I decided to test drive Mosaic by investing $400 in one of the projects offered at that time - a 55-kilowatt installation on an affordable-housing complex in Corte Madera, Calif. So far, so good. The interest I earn is locked in and is unaffected by the future performance of Mosaic. 

        
A Plan to Bring Sun-Powered Irrigation to Poor Farmers
        
In Gas-Drilling Fight, Opposites Attract, and Distract
        
Can Wind, Water and Sunlight Power New York by 2050?
        
Debating the Facts on 'Green Energy'
        
Postcard from a Solar Rooftop

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (52%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Bornstein, David; Energy Efficiency; Entrepreneurship; Google+; Small Business; Solar Energy; business; energy; finance; innovation; solar; technology

ORGANIZATION: Google+

PERSON: Bornstein, David

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



762 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Face of Community Colleges

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A Century Foundation report shows a sharp increase in enrollment of lower-income, nonwhite students at community colleges, institutions that will do much to shape the economy. 

 BODY:
Students at community colleges increasingly come from low-income families, as I mention in an article for Thursday's newspaper about a new report. The trends, in their simplest terms: 
The ethnic breakdown has also changed, as the report, which is being published by The Century Foundation, explains:
Between 1994 and 2006, the white share of the community college population plummeted from 73 percent to 58 percent, while black and Hispanic representation grew from 21 percent to 33 percent, in part reflecting growing diversity in the population as a whole. By contrast, the change was much less dramatic at the most selective four-year colleges during this time period, when the white share dipped just three percentage points (from 78 percent to 75 percent) and the black and Hispanic shares barely moved (from 11 percent to 12 percent).
Community colleges get much less media attention than four-year colleges - and I'll plead guilty to that charge, too - but they will play an enormous role in shaping the economy. They enroll more than 40 percent of college students nationwide. They also tend to have distressingly low graduation rates, which means they represent a pool of potential college graduates.
As we have written before, the unemployment rate for college graduates is below 4 percent. For everyone else, it is above 7.5 percent.
The full report on community colleges, from the Century Foundation, is now online.

        
The Lasting Financial Impact of a Layoff
        
Structural Unemployment and Good Jobs
        
Patterns of Changes in Health Insurance
        
Q. and A. on the 'Shell Game' of College Aid
        
Where the Jobs for the Young Are and Aren't

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (95%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); TRENDS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (79%); FAMILY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Blacks; Century Foundation; Community Colleges; Graduation Rates; Hispanic-Americans; Income; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Century Foundation

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



763 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: New York Led Region in Population Growth Since 2011, Census Shows

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: The city added more people since 2011 than all the other cities in the metropolitan area combined, according to a new analysis of census results. 

 BODY:
New York added more people since 2011 than all the other cities in the metropolitan area combined, according to a new analysis of census results released Thursday. 
The city gained 67,000 people between 2011 and 2012, or .81 percent, a higher growth rate than all but two cities in the region with a population of 100,000 or more: Jersey City, 1.12 percent, and Stamford, .84 percent. But those cities grew by only 2,800 and 1,000, respectively. For the second consecutive year, the city grew faster than its suburbs.
New York's gain of 147,000 since 2010, to more than 8.3 million, approached the 178,000 increase recorded in the entire decade from 2000 to 2010.
Like Boston, Los Angeles and Philadelphia, New York grew faster annually since 2010 than the annual rate during the previous decade.
Kenneth M. Johnson, senior demographer at the Carsey Instititute of the University of New Hampshire, attributed the spurt to fewer people leaving the city because of the lingering effects of the recession. 
Among the region's bigger cities, Buffalo, Hartford, Paterson, Rochester, Syracuse and Waterbury recorded declines in population.

        
Census Takes a Look at New Yorkers' Migration Patterns
        
New York Led Country in Population Growth Since 2010 Census
        
City's Hispanic Makeup Shifts as Dominicans Leave and Mexicans Arrive
        
Study Finds More New Yorkers Leaving State
        
More People Commute to Manhattan Than Any Other County

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Census; Population; New York by the Numbers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



764 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: The Trajectory of Suicide

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Newsweek takes on the upward trend in suicide rates. 

 BODY:
Since I've been writing about the recent uptick in suicide rates, I should link to Newsweek's big new piece on the same trend, which offers a good survey of how self-slaughter has become one of the world's leading causes of death. The piece's author, Tony Dokoupil, actually goes a little bit further than I would: Given how much of suicide's new statistical prominence is explained by the (happy) decline in other ways of death, and given that suicide rates were dipping in the U.S. up until the turn of millenium, I'm not sure that the language of "epidemic" quite makes sense at this point; I think the Center for Disease Control's formulation, "an increasing public health concern," is a more appropriate way of putting it. The big question, as my column tried to suggest, is where the current trend is going, and whether the upward movement is likely to persist. And here the Newsweek essay has a good distillation of the case for pessimism: 
In the United States, Julie Phillips, a sociologist at Rutgers University, was among the first researchers to frisk these middle-age suicides for deeper meaning. In 2010 she and a colleague declared the age range a new danger zone for self-harm. Many commentators took this as another fun fact about the boomers, not a cause for general alarm. But earlier this month, Phillips presented the results of a second paper, an attempt to settle the question of whether the boomers were especially suicidal. She sifted through eight decades of U.S. suicide data, wrenching it to separate the influence of absolute age, peer effects, and the events of the moment, and she found something shocking: the boomers have the highest suicide rate right now, but everyone born after 1945 shows a higher suicide risk than expected-and everyone is on pace for a higher rate than the boomers.
That means that the last decade isn't just a statistical blip, a function of a bad recession, unlocked gun cases, or an aging counterculture. It's much darker, and deeper than all that. This is the "new epidemiology of suicide," as Phillips puts it, one where the tectonic changes of the last decade-socially, culturally, economically-have created a heavy burden of suicide, growing heavier by the year. "The baby-boomer generation," Phillips writes in her new paper on boomers, "may be the tip of the iceberg."
... In her next bundle of research, Phillips hopes to pinpoint the massive, steam-rolling social change that matters most for self-harm. She has a good list of suspects: the astounding rise in people living alone, or else feeling alone; the rise in the number of people living in sickness and pain; the fact that church involvement no longer increases with age, while bankruptcy rates, health-care costs, and long-term unemployment certainly do.
To which I would only add, as a further follow-up to my exchange with Nate Cohn, that all of this is perfectly compatible with the existence of a basic urban-rural divide in suicide rates. Geography may be crucial to understanding the distribution of suicides, but the question is what's shaping the suicide rate's current, pan-regional trajectory - and the trends Powell is looking at seem like pretty reasonable places to start the search for answers.

        
On Suicide, Does Density Disprove Durkheim?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (94%); TRENDS (92%); DEATHS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (86%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); EPIDEMICS (74%); WRITERS (73%) Newsweek; Suicides and Suicide Attempts

ORGANIZATION: Newsweek

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



765 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Paid Parental Leave Policies at Disney, Fitch and Others

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: An update on paid parental leave policies at American employers, including Disney, ExxonMobil, Fitch Ratings and others. 

 BODY:
Earlier this year, I wrote a column on the dismal state of paid parental leave in the United States, which trails most of the world.
At the time, I created a giant chart that highlights the various policies at some of the largest American employers. Since we'd like to expand the chart over time - so that it becomes a repository of sorts, highlighting the most and least generous policies - we asked readers to submit their own employers' rules.
Nearly 175 people responded, and I'm still working my way down the list. 
But one of the most absurd policies came from an employee at Fitch Ratings, who generously gives its employers "honeymoon leave" of five days off in the year they get married. But at the same time, fathers only get three days off when they bring home a newborn child. Adoptive parents also only get three paid days, though birth fathers and parents adopting children can take unpaid leave as part of the Family Medical and Leave Act: it requires larger employers and public agencies to provide up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for the birth or adoption of a child (or to care for yourself, an opposite-sex spouse, parent or child who has fallen ill).
Birth mothers, meanwhile, are eligible for six to eight weeks of short-term disability at full pay after the birth (or longer if medically necessary), a Fitch spokesman said.
All of the new details can be found at the bottom of the chart, but here are a few more additions:
At Disney, birth mothers receive full pay, as part of its "short-term illness benefits," for up to three months, or longer when it is coordinated with state disability insurance benefits in areas where that is applicable. Then, the employee can use sick pay or vacation time that they have accrued to extend paid maternity leave beyond the 12-week period. For hourly employees, short-term disability benefits provide 60 percent of pay up to $200 a week (or more if employee elects supplemental, contributory coverage) for up to 26 weeks.
Fathers and adoptive parents can use available paid time off, including floating holidays, vacation, and, in California, a portion of sick pay.
ExxonMobil declined to provide specifics on its policy. It would only say that its "benefits programs are designed to be responsive to the needs of employees throughout a career and into retirement. They also support ExxonMobil in attracting and retaining the most qualified employees."
But if that's the case, I'm not sure why they want to keep those policies a secret.
Berkshire Hathaway did not return calls, while Chevron and Wal-Mart were still working on the request at the time of publication (details will be added to the chart later).
If you want your company added to the list, please fill out the form below or write in your employer's policy in the comment section below.
&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;a href="http://nytimes.wufoo.com/forms/p7x2z7/" data-mce-href="http://nytimes.wufoo.com/forms/p7x2z7/"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;Fill out my Wufoo form!&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;

        
Parental Leave Policies at Some Big Technology Firms
        
Parental Leave: What Does Your Employer Offer?
        
Continuing the Conversation on Paid Parental Leave
        
What Families Are Spending on Prom Night
        
Having Mom Do Your Laundry, to Save Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY LEAVE (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); ADOPTION (90%); PARENTING (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); PARENTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (86%); FAMILY (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); MARRIAGE (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%) Adoptions; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Chevron Corporation; Exxon Mobil Corporation; Family Leaves; Fitch Ratings; Paid Time Off; Parenting; Walmart Stores Inc; Walt Disney Company

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Chevron Corporation; Exxon Mobil Corporation; Fitch Ratings; Walmart Stores Inc; Walt Disney Company

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (51%); BRK.B (NYSE) (50%); BRK.A (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



766 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Alabama Republican to Retire From House

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Representative Jo Bonner, a former chairman of the House Ethics Committee, will resign from Congress this fall to take a job at the University of Alabama, setting the stage for a special election. 

 BODY:
Representative Jo Bonner, Republican of Alabama, will resign from Congress this fall to take a job at the University of Alabama.
Mr. Bonner, 53, has represented Alabama's First Congressional District since 2003. He said in a statement that he was resigning effective Aug. 15 to become vice chancellor of government relations and economic development at the University of Alabama system, a newly created position. 
His retirement means Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican, must set a special election for the seat. The district covers Mobile and Baldwin Counties and is considered solid Republican terrain. The district voted for Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential election, and Mr. Bonner faced no Democratic opponent in the general election.
Addressing his constituents in a statement on Thursday, he said, "I trust you know that serving as your congressman this past decade has truly been one of the highest honors of my life."
Mr. Bonner is an alumnus of the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa, where his older sister, Judy L. Bonner, is president. He will move to Tuscaloosa for the job.
Mr. Bonner stepped down as chairman of the House Ethics Committee in 2012 after six years on the panel. His feuds with Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, when she was chairwoman of the panel in 2010 are well known. The two clashed when Ms. Lofgren scheduled the censure trial for Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, for after the November elections, and again when Mr. Bonner blocked her attempts to fire two investigators involved in the case of Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California.
He remains a member of the Appropriations Committee, where he earned a reputation for securing federal earmarks for his district and for directing federal resources to victims of Hurricane Katrina.
Noting the challenges facing the country during his time in office - the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Hurricanes Ivan and Katrina, the 2010 BP oil spill and the recession - Mr. Bonner highlighted his achievements bringing shipbuilding and aerospace jobs to the region through ThyssenKrupp, Austal and Airbus.

        
Bipartisan House Group Reaches Preliminary Immigration Deal
        
House Agriculture Committee Approves Farm Bill
        
On Capitol Hill, Sanford Picks Up Where He Left Off
        
At Hearing, Holder Calls Issa's Accusations 'Shameful'
        
The Weekend Word: Revelations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ETHICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); HURRICANES (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (63%); APPROVALS (61%); OIL SPILLS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); SHIPBUILDING (50%) Alabama; Bonner, Jo; House of Representatives; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; The Caucus

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%)

PERSON: JO BONNER (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MAXINE WATERS (59%); ROBERT BENTLEY (59%); CHARLES B RANGEL (59%); ZOE LOFGREN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (73%) ALABAMA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Alabama

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



767 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Prefab Lives!

BYLINE: ALLISON ARIEFF


HIGHLIGHT: Modular building, a design approach that once focused on single-family homes, is becoming increasingly popular for multi-unit residences. 

 BODY:
It's an exciting time for modular building, especially in New York, and as someone who has been deeply immersed in the world of prefabrication for over a decade, I am glad to see the much-maligned building technology finding its proper niche. It's the killer app for the modular industry.
B2, a 32-story tower that is part of a 1,500-unit, mixed-use complex designed by SHoP Architects for Brooklyn's Atlantic Yards, will soon be the tallest modular building in the world. nARCHITECTS recently won adaptNYC's competition to design a micro-unit apartment building, and will see its concept transformed into a 10-story building by 2015. It will be the first multiunit building in Manhattan to be built with modular construction. A variety of housing types, from single-family to midrise/mixed-use buildings, characterizes the over 300,000 square feet of modular housing that GRO Architects is designing in Jersey City and Baltimore. And THE STACK by GLUCK+, one of New York City's first prefabricated steel and concrete residential buildings, will provide the city with 28 moderate-income apartments. 
None of these architects are "prefab" architects, they've simply determined that for these projects, prefab makes the most sense. It's the ideal application in terms of efficiency when building higher density and with that, the larger quantities of repetitive units.
As GRO's Nicole Robertson says, "There is sheer economy of scale that emerges as we build a dense multifamily project, and it is the integration of digital technology on both the design and fabrication side that make the end product sustainable."
Modular construction not only makes construction more precise, sustainable and economically efficient, it can help relieve New Yorkers (and of course, any other urban inhabitants) of the typical congestion and extended construction times associated with conventional building practices. "We believe a modular approach to high-rise housing will lead to a better quality of life for communities living near and around modular-based building sites," says Gregg Pasquarelli, architect and principal of SHoP Architects. "Why shouldn't we use assembly line techniques to build higher quality buildings? Modular construction offers the possibility of safer sites and better-manufactured buildings at standard construction costs. It's a win-win proposition."
nARCHITECTS' Ammr Vandal concurs. Her firm's micro-unit, she says, "makes a big impact with small moves. The smaller units are complemented by residential amenities provided in the building, promoting the concept of living beyond one's four walls." 
In contrast to regular old housing construction, which happens pretty much the same way it has for decades, if not a century, prefab has long been promising better design and innovation and - the key to its intrigue - a more affordable path to good architecture. 
Much of that effort has been directed toward the design of single-family homes, what The Wall Street Journal described in 2004 as a "push to turn houses that come on trucks into objets d'art." But using prefab for single-family homes, given the reality of current trends in financing, construction and development, will never quite achieve the desired goals of efficiency, affordability and good design. One custom prefab home is expensive and complicated to produce; the second one, less so. But it's not until one can get to say, 20 or more homes that we're looking at a new way of building. So single-family prefab remains largely in the realm of the prototype. Almost without exception, the wheel is at least partially reinvented every time. 
Just over a decade ago, when I published my book "Prefab," the potential for factory fabrication to improve housing was tenable (and explains why so many architects have been obsessed with taking on the challenge). But after I evangelized for years after about prefab's transformative potential - including, while I was editor in chief of Dwell magazine, the introduction of an international home-design competition to design a modern affordable prefab home, which in turn led to the development of a line of Dwell-licensed prefab homes - one thing became clear to me: Prefab is best utilized in the design and construction not of single-family homes but of multifamily housing. 
Absent economies of scale, the dreamed-of cost savings are basically impossible to achieve. Imagine building a custom car on a Ford assembly line and you can get a sense of how that might work. The repetition involved in creating a multi-unit building simply aligns with prefab's capabilities in a way that single-family homebuilding does not. 
Though prefabrication has a long history of capturing the public imagination dating at least as far back as Sears, Roebuck & Co., which sold nearly 100,000 houses by mail between 1908 and 1940, it has run up against numerous obstacles, from financing to factory standards to social stigma. And, despite a MoMA retrospective in 2008, that hasn't changed much in recent years. The economic downturn of the mid-2000s decimated every part of the housing industry, and prefab was no exception. "When the credit market collapsed so, too, did the prefab market," Leo Marmol of Marmol Radziner Architects (whose firm had been part of the Dwell prefab competition) told me recently. His firm, which had acquired and then shut down its factory facility) is today busy focusing on custom design work, using prefab only rarely.
It's not that architects shouldn't use factory fabrication to design and build homes. Many do with great results. Yet architect-designed homes account for a scant 5 to 7 percent of the nation's housing stock, architect-designed prefab ones even less. Multifamily opens the door for those numbers to increase. According to Joseph Tanney, the architect and principal of Resolution: 4, which focuses now on single-family prefab but is getting numerous inquiries about multifamily these days for everything from dorms to micro-units, "The residential modular industry is salivating at the prospect of building more multifamily projects. It's a natural extension to think in terms of aggregation of the modules into higher density patterns, both architecturally and economically.
"I don't think that they are just now discovering prefab for multifamily," he continues. "It's just taking time for it to evolve into a higher level of design."
It's a natural evolution for architects to seriously (once again) contemplate the use of prefab in multifamily applications. Thus far, other building sectors - commercial, institutional - have been, frankly, more innovative, more willing to embrace new tools like parametric software, which is used to create 3-D models that help orient buildings for optimal energy efficiency. Residential is playing catch-up on this and it's about time.
More innovation in factory-produced housing, says GRO's Robertson, "prevents the cookie-cutter sameness often associated with the process and allows for novel architectural form, nuance and variation" as well as efficiency. This is critical to moving from highly individuated single-family home design to multifamily buildings where individuality can find architectural expression.
Now that the market for housing has rebounded and indeed is booming in some cities, multifamily prefab makes sense for many reasons. The demand for rental housing is rapidly increasing as the interest in home ownership has waned post-housing bust. For the first time ever, California cities are seeing the need for more multifamily housing over single-family homes. And a recent study by Smart Growth America that examined three distinct housing development types revealed that mixed-use infill (when buildings are constructed to occupy the space between existing ones) produced 1,150 times more net tax revenue per acre than suburban development. The sort of community a growing percentage of the population is seeking takes the form of a denser, walkable urban neighborhood. Prefab can make that happen more quickly, efficiently and economically than conventional construction - and increasingly, it's doing exactly that. 

        
Suburban Disequilibrium
        
Staying Sane in Small Spaces
        
Facebook Plays It Safe
        
What Remains
        
Span: A Remembrance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%) Architecture; Prefabricated Buildings; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Allison Arieff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



768 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: The Corporate Tax Dodge

BYLINE: STEVEN RATTNER


HIGHLIGHT: When companies shelter their profits overseas, everyone else loses. 

 BODY:
WHILE a Senate report detailing Apple's aggressive tax sheltering of billions of dollars of overseas income grabbed headlines this week, little notice was paid to a surreptitious thrust at tax minimization that was announced at nearly the same moment.
In a news release, the American drug maker Actavis announced that it would spend $5 billion to acquire Warner Chilcott, an Irish pharmaceuticals company less than half its size. 
Buried in the fifth paragraph of the release was the curious tidbit that the new company would be incorporated in Ireland, even though the far larger acquirer was based in Parsippany, N.J.
The reason? By escaping American shores, Actavis expects to reduce its effective tax rate from about 28 percent to 17 percent, a potential savings of tens of millions of dollars per year for the company and a still larger hit to the United States Treasury.

Actavis is hardly alone in fleeing to lower-tax countries. For example, Eaton Corporation, a diversified power management company based for nearly a century in Cleveland, also became an "Irish company" when it acquired Cooper Industries last year.
Here's the point: As muddled and broken as the individual income tax system may be, the rules under which the government collects corporate levies are far more loophole-ridden and counterproductive.
That's not entirely Washington's fault. Unlike individuals, multinational corporations can shuttle profits - and sometimes even their headquarters - around the globe in search of the jurisdiction willing to cut them the best deal on taxes (and often other economic incentives).
Much of this occurs under the guise of "transfer pricing," the terms under which one subsidiary of a multinational sells products to another subsidiary. The goal is to generate as high a share of profit as possible in the lowest-taxed jurisdictions.
A study by the Congressional Research Service found that subsidiaries of United States corporations operating in the top five tax havens (the Netherlands, Ireland, Bermuda, Switzerland and Luxembourg) generated 43 percent of their foreign profits in those countries in 2008, but had only 4 percent of their foreign employees and 7 percent of their foreign investment located there.
All in all, it is a race to the bottom on the part of revenue-starved governments eager to attract even a relatively small number of new jobs.
As a consequence, the effective corporate tax rate in the United States fell to 17.8 percent in 2012 from 42.5 percent in 1960, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. (The share of federal revenues arriving at the Treasury from companies has fallen even more sharply, in part because an increasing number of businesses are taxed as individuals rather than as corporations.)
That's just not fair at a time of soaring corporate profits and stagnant family incomes.
Business groups, naturally, say the best way to bring jobs and cash home is for Washington to stop taxing profits earned overseas by American companies altogether. But that idea makes little sense. While changing to this "territorial system" would allow some of the estimated $1.7 trillion of cash "trapped" overseas to come home free of tax, it would both cost the Treasury an estimated $130 billion in revenue over the next 10 years and provide greater incentives for American companies to continue to move jobs and production overseas.
Happily, the gaming of the tax system is becoming a global concern, with an action plan coming from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in July. The O.E.C.D. should work toward taxing business profits where they actually occur, not where they've been shifted by some tax adviser.
As we strive for a global solution, we should take a number of interim steps, including better policing of transfer pricing.
In addition, President Obama has made constructive proposals to reduce the incentive to move jobs overseas by imposing a minimum tax on foreign earnings and delaying certain tax deductions related to overseas investment.
Perhaps most provocatively, we should consider taxing a greater share of the profits made by companies not at the corporate level, where they are subject to oh-so-much gaming, but rather at the shareholder level.
As corporate taxes have declined, corporate profits have increased. That has pushed up stock prices and been a boon to shareholders. It hardly seems unfair to ask those who already benefit from bargain tax rates on capital gains and dividends to share some of those gains with the government.

        
Frederick Douglass's Irish Liberty
        
Abortion Takes Flight
        
American Exceptions
        
The Long Stagnation
        
Long Night's Journey Into Sleep

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JOB CREATION (86%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); INCOME TAX (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); RANKINGS (62%) Actavis Group; Corporate Taxes; Ireland; Tax Shelters; Steven Rattner

COMPANY: ACTAVIS INC (91%); APPLE INC (91%); EATON CORP PLC (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (61%); WARNER CHILCOTT PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Actavis Group

TICKER: ACT (NYSE) (91%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%); ETN (NYSE) (83%); WCRX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (83%); SIC3594 FLUID POWER PUMPS & MOTORS (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (69%) Ireland

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013



769 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Figuring Out How to Help Small-Business Owners

BYLINE: PAUL DOWNS


HIGHLIGHT: Consult Your Community has very grand goals. It wants to address income inequality and help rebuild the American economy, and it plans to do this by deploying business students to provide free consulting to local businesses. 

 BODY:
I get a fair number of e-mails from my readers. A couple of weeks ago one arrived from a gentleman named Michael Bloch. He wrote:
I am a senior at the University of California, Berkeley, studying Business Administration & Political Science. Three months ago I founded an organization at Cal called Consult Your Community, which provides low-income, small business owners in college communities with pro bono consulting services. We believe that by helping these business owners improve the performance of their companies, we can create tangible, lasting benefits for both their businesses and our community at large.
Although we have enjoyed tremendous growth in the last few weeks (we have chapters opening at schools like Stanford, Harvard, Yale, Notre Dame, UVA, UNC, UMich, and more) I feel that our members don't fully understand the small business environment in which we operate. After reading your NYT's article from this month, I wanted to reach out to see it would be possible to speak with you directly to learn from your wide range of unique experiences, so that our members could be better equipped to serve our clients. 
Michael and I did speak on the phone, a conversation that started with my congratulating him for getting his organization off the ground. He also outlined what he wants his organization to do. Consult Your Community has very grand goals. It wants to address income inequality and help rebuild the American economy, while providing a way for large corporations to act in a socially responsible manner. And it plans to do all of this by deploying business students to provide free consulting to local businesses. 
I agreed to help. Then we discussed the point he raised in his query, how to prepare his student volunteers for the messy reality of running a business. I know nothing about what business students learn in school, and it's been a long time since I started my business, but I'm going to throw out an idea based on my own experience. Here's what everyone needs to know about very small businesses: they have very few resources. Particularly when starting up, entrepreneurs have no money and no time.
Forget what you hear about venture capital financing and software start-ups - those are very unusual situations. (My son Peter has been working at a technology start-up in San Francisco, and it's a different universe from anything I've experienced.) My sense from talking to Michael is that he's more interested in working with business owners who are trying to start a corner store, or a copy shop, or a coffee shop. Most people start companies like this with their own money - and run through much of it just getting the doors open. The owner's time is completely wrapped up in trying to get the business going - it takes a lot of time to establish basic operating procedures - and also doing the work. For this person to spend even 10 minutes with a student volunteer may be a lot to ask. No matter how well intended, a misguided approach won't help anyone.
In more than two decades running a business, I have encountered all kinds of unsolicited input from outsiders. When considering these, I have learned to separate them into two categories: advice and actual help. These are very different. Advice is well meant, and often would be terrific if implemented, but is given without any commitment from the giver. It sounds like this: "You should do some difficult project with lofty goals!" I've always been a little grateful to get advice, as it does express some concern for my well-being. But I have rarely been able to act on it, as I have been overloaded with existing responsibilities.
Actual help has been much rarer but a lot better. It generally appears only after some effort on the part of the helper to understand what is really happening in the business, generally through time spent with the owner. Actual help sounds like this: "You are weak in some area of concern, and I'm going to take on a specific task for you." In other words, the actual helper provides not only a thoughtful, customized analysis, but also the resources to put the plan into action.
In my own business, my greatest weakness was understanding my finances. The most useful actual help I received was having my partner's wife set up my QuickBooks properly. She spent time with me, understanding my make-shift system, rolled up her sleeves, and got it done. This took several months of part-time work. Having my books set up in a conventional manner allowed me to hire a bookkeeper to maintain them. I was still a long way from real profit, but that one act set me on the road to sustained success.
Consult Your Community's Web site lists fourservices that it intends to deliver: marketing, finance, environmental, and human resources. Michael and I did not discuss where this list came from, but let's assume that it reflects course work that the students have done. Presumably, they have an academic understanding of these concepts, and now they have to apply them to real businesses. This, in my opinion, is where it might get tricky. Are those the primary problems that a small-business owner faces?
Based on my own experience, I would immediately remove environmental issues from the list - my clients simply do not care how green we are. And I would change marketing to selling, a related but different problem. Finance and human resources are always good to think about but maybe not in the way they are taught in school. My experience with finance has been about living simply, begging help from relatives, and running a large credit card balance now and then. H.R. has been easy except when it's dreadful: disciplining and firing workers for things they have done, and sometimes having to lay them off because of bad business conditions.
Every business is different. The problems depend on the particular skill set of the owner. I hope that Michael's volunteer helpers will work with business owners to identify areas of weakness and then provide actual help, not just advice. But that's just me.
What would you tell Michael? If some bright-faced young business students showed up at your door, what would you want them to do?
 Paul Downs founded Paul Downs Cabinetmakers in 1986. It is based outside Philadelphia. 

        
What You Need to Know About Credit Card Processing
        
What I Took Home in 2012
        
Choosing a Credit Card Processor (and Drawing Some Conclusions)
        
My Search for a Credit Card Processor, Part 3
        
My Search for a Credit Card Processor, Part 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (86%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%) Downs, Paul; Paul Downs Cabinetmakers; Small Business; Staying Alive

ORGANIZATION: Paul Downs Cabinetmakers

PERSON: Downs, Paul

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013



770 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Post-Hurricane Aquarium to Partly Reopen With Lower Cost and Half the Animals

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
A sea lion named Clio swam to the edge of her pool for a look at a passer-by. Inside an exhibition building, a diver in scuba gear scrubbed a rock formation as queen angelfish and cownose rays glided past.
Thursday was a typical day at the New York Aquarium, at least for its finned and flippered inhabitants. For the aquarium's staff, it was part of a hectic countdown to the much-anticipated reopening scheduled for Saturday, seven months after Hurricane Sandy inundated the 14-acre campus with floodwaters. 
The Wildlife Conservation Society, which runs the aquarium, has already spent $6 million on repairs and cleaning. Still, its first visitors of 2013 will find a substantially pared-down complex. But they will pay less: the admission fee has been reduced to $9.95 from $14.95 to acknowledge the more limited experience.
The aquarium, in Coney Island, Brooklyn, suffered severe damage to five of its seven buildings. In the days immediately after the hurricane, officials even considered evacuating the entire collection.
While the aquarium's staff was able to stabilize the support systems for the fish and marine mammals, the decision was made to reopen a considerably smaller institution with about half of the 12,000 fish, mammals and invertebrates that were in the collection before the storm. The aquarium is reducing the collection by moving fish to some of the society's New York zoos and to other aquariums.
The departing fish were largely in two major exhibition halls: ''Explore the Shore'' and ''Alien Stingers.'' Those buildings are expected to reopen in 2016, when the aquarium will unveil an ambitious new exhibition called ''Ocean Wonders: Sharks!''
''The options were staying closed until we could reopen the entire aquarium or doing a partial reopening,'' said Jon Forrest Dohlin, the aquarium's director. ''It was an incredibly complicated puzzle.''
One enhanced attraction, however, is a renovated Aquatheater, an outdoor exhibition with stadium seating. The hurricane did not delay the planned overhaul of the theater, which once featured dolphins but now stars sea lions.
The reason the repairs are so involved and costly has to do with the parts of the aquarium that had the most flooding. When the storm surge jumped the Boardwalk on Oct. 29, seawater poured down the stairs to the buildings' basements. That was mainly where the holding areas and life-support systems were located.
The flood knocked out the aquarium's electrical transformers and damaged the electrical distribution system and other vital pieces of equipment. The aquarium relied on generators until the end of December. ''For an aquarium, what you see out front is the smallest part of the story from an animal husbandry standpoint,'' Mr. Dohlin explained.
As the staff works to repair the other buildings over the next three years, the aquarium will rebuild the collection to its size before the hurricane. Until then, the public will have to make do without the jellyfish or anemones that were housed in ''Alien Stingers'' or the electric eels, lungfish and blind cave fish of ''Explore the Shore.''
But there is still plenty to observe, including the tropical fish of the coral reefs and the ''charismatic marine mammals,'' as Mr. Dohlin put it, from sea lions and sea otters to harbor seals, penguins and walruses.
Of the three walruses in the collection, the public will have to wait a while longer to see Mitik. He is the baby walrus who was orphaned off the coast of Alaska last summer and adopted by the aquarium shortly before Hurricane Sandy struck. Weighing more than 400 pounds, Mitik is still in the aquarium's health center. But he will soon meet the other walruses, both females: Nuka, who weighs 1,850 pounds, and the relatively svelte Kulu, weighing 1,278 pounds.
''Sometime this summer we'll start socializing him,'' Mr. Dohlin said of Mitik. ''He's a very sweet boy and we want the two girls to feel comfortable with him.''
Officials are eager to resume the aquarium's education programs. This summer, it will offer a camp program and begin training teenage docents. In the fall, the aquarium will recommence its school program (12,000 schoolchildren used the aquarium's classrooms the year before the storm), as well as professional development work for teachers.
Situated next to the Coney Island amusement rides, which go dark in winter, the aquarium is also an important year-round attraction. ''We have a role here in Coney Island,'' Mr. Dohlin said. ''We're an economic engine. We create $58 million in economic activity, and we take that very seriously.''
As for the aquarium's own economic generators, they, too, will make a partial comeback. While the gift shop will reopen on Saturday, the cafe, which was badly damaged in the hurricane, will not. Until it can be repaired, an array of food carts near the entrance will take up the slack.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When the pared-down New York Aquarium reopens on Saturday, a California sea lion will be on view, but not from a lower level, which is still closed after flooding from Hurricane Sandy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (91%); MAMMALS (91%); ANIMALS (90%); FISHES (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); SCUBA DIVING (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); HURRICANE SANDY (75%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



771 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 5609 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
&#x2605; Asia Society: 'The Artful Recluse: Painting, Poetry, and Politics in 17th-Century China' (through June 2) With the fall of the Ming dynasty in 1644, China's intellectual elite, many of them artists who worked in the imperial government, were thrown into a tailspin. Confucian ethics demanded filial devotion to the old regime. But how were they to demonstrate it? One way was to remove themselves from active life and signal their resistance through art. How they did so is the subject of this compellingly fine-grained painting show. Some artists sacrificed their lives for principles; others used recluse status as a career move. The emotional weight, psychological depth, and intellectual complexity of the work of this time is what comes through here. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter) 
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'John Singer Sargent Watercolors' (through July 28) Sargent fans and watercolor hobbyists will be in heaven with this exhibition's more than 90 watercolors from the first decade of the 20th century, all from the collections of the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and all representing picturesque scenes in Europe. Sargent pioneered the kind of loosely gestural yet clearly representational watercolor painting that today's popular culture adores. He has his detractors, though, who may profit from re-examining their prejudices in light of this beautiful show. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'A Different Kind of Order: The ICP Triennial' (through Sept. 8) The fourth, and best, edition of the International Center of Photography's triennial turns out to be that extremely rare thing in New York City these days, an exhibition of contemporary art for adults. The up-to-the-minute emphasis is on the continuing and enveloping impact of digital technology on photography. The results, as seen here, couldn't be more varied and gripping in content. This is a show that's in touch with the big, live, real world out there beyond Frieze New York. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Japan Society: 'Edo Pop: The Graphic Impact of Japanese Prints' (through June 9) Contemporary provocateurs could learn a thing or two from the venerable artists in ''Edo Pop,'' who mixed high and low culture in arch and urbane ways. In this show's 100 or so ukiyo-e, or color woodblock prints (drawn from the collection of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts), valiant samurai turn out to be Kabuki actors in costume; refined landscapes depict well-trodden tourist sites; and images of classical beauties accompanied by poems are more often than not portraits of courtesans. These spirited images bring to life Edo Japan's ''floating world,'' a sort of Renaissance of popular entertainment. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Jack Goldstein x 10,000' (through Sept. 29) The first American museum retrospective of this brilliant but elusive artist, organized by the Orange County Museum of Art, is both a celebration and a cautionary tale. It revels in Goldstein's posthumous influence as it reveals the tragic disconnect of his life and his art, the desire to disappear complicated by an intense careerist drive. This exhibition offers (in addition to paintings, sculptures and Goldstein's signature films of the late 1970s) a rare look at the early, performance-based films: works like ''Milk,'' in which the persistent banging of a fist on a table finally topples a glass, or ''Spotlight,'' in which a beam chases the artist around an empty room. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (through Aug. 4) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Punk: Chaos to Couture' (through Aug. 14) This entertaining exhibition proves that high fashion rarely looks quite as frivolous and cluelessly 1 percent-ish as when it upgrades aspects of the obstreperous punk sartorial mode, adding gold-plated safety pins, careful rips and holes, and a feigned DIY look that can involve materials like garbage bags or cellophane. Cleverness abounds. A few designers absorb and transform punk attributes, but most garments simplistically scream punk. Not for nothing do they call the show's organizing department the Costume Institute. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi' (through Nov. 3) Visitors to the Met's rooftop will discover something shocking: the stone terrace is splattered with paint the color of dried blood so that it resembles the scene of some terrible crime. Looking closer at the areas of spillage, viewers will find they have been delicately altered. With deft white and red brushstrokes, the Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi has worked into the raw paint a pattern suggestive of leafy shrubbery and flower petals, turning the whole into a politically fraught, allegorical mix symbolizing dualities of life and death and hope and despair. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Velázquez's Portrait of Duke Francesco I d'Este: A Masterpiece from the Galleria Estense, Modena' (through July 14) This single-painting exhibition highlights a portrait made at a delicate diplomatic moment during the Thirty Years' War; the painting is on loan to the Met in part because the museum that normally houses it, the Galleria Estense in Modena, is repairing damage from a 2012 earthquake in the region. It's a chance to see another commanding Velázquez at this already well-stocked museum, and to appreciate that this artist's politically savvy portraits are more than just tools of statesmanship. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'At War With the Obvious: Photographs by William Eggleston' (through July 28) In 36 transcendentally beautiful photographs shot in the Mississippi Delta region in the 1970s and early '80s, this pioneer of color photography captured those kinds of sacred moments when something you ordinarily would pass by without a thought -- a children's swing set overgrown by weeds, an abandoned gas station, a basket of fake flowers hanging on someone's front door -- suddenly takes your breath away. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Cambodian Rattan: The Sculptures of Sopheap Pich' (through July 7) Born in Cambodia in 1971, Soheap Pich first came to international attention in 2009 with a series of openwork, basketlike rattan sculptures that looked as light as air, but carried serious ideas in images of half-built cities, viscera, flowers and bombs. His impressive Met show is embedded in the permanent Asian collection. It starts outside the Chinese painting galleries, continues in mezzanine space usually devoted to South Asian material, and concludes in the galleries of Southeast Asian art with a gorgeous suspended Buddha. (An exhibition of new work is on view through June 14 at Tyler Rollins Fine Art, 529 West 20th Street, in Chelsea.) (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney' (through Sept. 2) With its Gospels and reliquaries, the Morgan Library is at the right place for the first survey of graphic work by the most medievalizing of American contemporary artists. Encased in thick, pale, plastic frames, Mr. Barney's drawings of the past two decades have the look of precious pages from sacred books displayed on iPads. His images, with their emphasis on redemption through fleshly mortification, suggest sources in heroic epics and penitential religion, filtered through Sade and extreme sports. A display of collagelike storyboards for his films confirms the occult glamour of the personal cosmology he has developed, which feels as artificial and addictive as a video game. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (through Aug. 5) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
New Museum: 'Adhocracy' (through July 7) The term ''adhocracy'' was coined by the futurologist Alvin Toffler, who predicted that innovative, ad hoc forms of organization would replace more bureaucratically entrenched structures in business and government. This crowded design exhibition presents a variety of self-empowering things that people can make and do for themselves like build their own furniture and bicycles; make new appliances from functional parts of old, broken ones; raise money for bigger projects by means of Kickstarter; and, more problematically, make their own functional handguns using 3-D printers. 231 Bowery, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum: 'Jay DeFeo: A Retrospective' (through June 2) The American artist DeFeo, who died in 1989 at 60, is famous for a single work, a gargantuan painting -- nearly 12 feet tall -- called ''The Rose,'' which she labored on exhaustingly for eight years, even after it had been extracted out of her San Francisco studio with a forklift. In the absence of other evidence, many people tend to see the piece as the sum of her accomplishment, but to this view the Whitney's tenderly shaped and visually absorbing survey says: No. There's more, and different. ''The Rose'' may have been the pivotal point of her career -- DeFeo herself said as much -- but streams of inventive, if less spectacular, work flowed toward it and from it. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'Life Cast' (through July 26) One of the outstanding shows of the artist's career is best viewed as a single piece. Three fanatically realistic life-size sculptures of naked humans are paired with two video installations that reveal the meticulous casting process behind their ecstatic, mysterious exactitude. The piece is a homage to -- but also perhaps penance for -- Marcel Duchamp's ''Étant Donnés'' and its obsessive focus on the female sex. Hauser & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, Manhattan, (212) 794-4970, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
'Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts from The Metropolitan Museum of Art' (through Aug. 11) This sometimes arcane but highly effective assemblage of rare furnishings, artifacts and a smattering of art and printed matter resurrects a once-renowned French interior designer whose collections -- and displays -- of 18th-century French decorative material and Medieval art were purchased en bloc by J. P.Morgan and given to the Met. They formed the nuclei of the museum's holdings in these areas, helped shape its departmental structure and influenced the arrangement of its galleries in numerous ways. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Rodney Graham (through June 15) In four giant photographic transparencies mounted on lightboxes, the versatile Vancouver artist Mr. Graham ponders a man's middle age with comical ennui. Each is a fictional self-portrait of the artist as a construction worker, a scientist, an aging punk and an old hippie in a kayak. They are funny and touching because of the disproportionate relationship between their grandiose scale and their goofy images, which resemble those of downbeat Father's Day greeting cards. 303 Gallery, 507 West 24th Street, (212) 255-1121, 303gallery.com. (Johnson)
Jeff Koons: 'New Paintings and Sculptures' (through June 29) Hastily assembled as a retort to Mr. Koons's ''Gazing Ball'' exhibition now at David Zwirner, this exhibition reveals the artist to be both highly productive and uneven. His Photo Realist paintings are uniformly lifeless. The best works are a magenta stainless steel balloon sculpture inspired by the Venus of Willendorf and an inflatable gorilla, rendered in a dark material that resembles plastic or bronze but is actually polished granite. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)
Jeff Koons: 'Gazing Ball' (through June 29) In his latest series, the artist everyone loves to hate could be said to revisit his ''Banality'' series of the late 1980s. He appropriates blazing white plaster casts of well-known Greco-Roman sculptures -- the ''Farnese Hercules,'' ''Sleeping Satyr (Barberini Faun)'' and ''Belvedere Torso'' -- and accents each with a blue mirrored ball of the yard-ornament variety to add irony and visual pizazz. Fighting cliché with cliché, they are neither especially good or bad, just average Koons. David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street, (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)
Paul McCarthy: 'Sculptures' (through June 1) The artist's love of chocolaty, implicitly excremental brown and ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'' find expression in dark-walnut sculptures that riff on scenes from that 1937 Disney classic, especially the final one in which the rescued Snow White and Prince Charming ride away on his horse. Repeated versions in different scales intersect in a giant pair of bookends without which the show would probably collapse, though there are numerous excellent drawings. Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Richard Serra: 'Early Work' (through June 15) This terrific exhibition looks back on five formative years in the career of the world's most admired sculptor. One room contains objects made of lead, rubber, wood and stone produced by basic procedures like cutting, folding and tearing. A second gallery features works made by propping up four-by-four-foot lead panels and a single slab of hot-rolled steel, eight feet tall and 24 feet long, that juts from a corner into the room with grand implacability. David Zwirner, 537 West 20th Street, (212) 517-8677, davidzwirner.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Wolfgang Tillmans (through June 22) The nomadic German photographer Wolfgang Tillmans addresses globalization in a curiously offhand way. This is true even in his latest works, which assert themselves more strongly as art objects thanks to Mr. Tillmans's experiments with inkjet printing; they are lush and almost painterly in their rich concentrations of pigment. Only after connecting the dots of the installation -- which moves from downtown Los Angeles to Kilimanjaro, a Masai hut to a construction site in Shanghai, a car headlight to a close-up of mold spores -- do you sense transformation and upheaval. Andrea Rosen Gallery, 525 West 24th Street, (212) 627-6000, andrearosengallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Sara VanDerBeek (through June 8) With two glamorous installations of photographs and minimalist sculptures, Ms. VanDerBeek contributes to the Postmodern endgame tradition of art reflecting on itself. In the biggest gallery four white columns reflected in mirror glass covering large, abstract, vaguely cosmic photographs call to mind the pillar of salt that Lot's wife turned into when, contrary to divine command, looked back to the corrupt city of Sodom. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropictures.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: SoHo
Giosetta Fioroni: 'L'Argento' (through June 2) This first American survey of Giosetta Fioroni reveals that we still have much to learn about postwar Italian art, despite recent gallery exhibitions of Lucio Fontana, Piero Manzoni, Giorgio Griffa, Gianni Colombo and Luigi Ghirri and museum shows of Michelangelo Pistoletto and Alighiero Boetti. In the silvery, evanescent paintings, drawings and films of Ms. Fioroni, who was born in Rome in 1932, we see how American Pop's celebrities and commodities took on new meanings in a post-fascist society. Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Other
Jane Alexander: 'Surveys (From the Cape of Good Hope)' (through July 29) The Cathedral of St. John the Divine is an occupied zone this spring, with a transient population of unearthly beings camped out in its chapels and aisles. Neither angels nor devils, though suggesting both, the figures in the sculptural tableaus and related photographs were all created by the South African artist Jane Alexander. And while haunted by her country's history of apartheid, the work has no single meaning, no sum-upable content. Instead, painstakingly calibrated ambiguity leaves this strange and wonderful show open to political speculation and spiritual interpretation. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
'Albrecht Dürer: Master Drawings, Watercolors, and Prints from the Albertina' (through June 9) Albrecht Dürer had it all: the eye of a Raphael, the brains of a Leonardo, the looks of a cleaned-up Kurt Cobain. Traditionally, the category of great artist implies great painter, and Dürer was that, though there's reason to think that he was at his most inventive, involved and expansive in his works on paper. Evidence for that argument is in this startlingly generous loan exhibition of more than 100 works on paper that includes some of his best known images. National Gallery of Art, on the National Mall, between Third and Seventh Streets, at Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Cotter)
Montclair Art Museum: 'The New Spirit: American Art in the Armory Show, 1913' (through June 16) The Armory Show opened 100 years ago in Manhattan, introducing to Americans the shocking works of van Gogh, Cézanne, Picasso, Matisse and Duchamp and other European avant-gardists along with less adventurous efforts by hundreds of homegrown artists. This much more modest, centennial show presents a selection of works by artists who were included, most of them Americans. Paintings by Edward Hopper, Marsden Hartley and John Sloan stand out, but a small, vibrant pastoral scene by Matisse shows how far behind the avant-garde curve the Americans lagged. 3 South Mountain Avenue, Montclair, N.J., (973) 746-5555, montclairartmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Montclair Art Museum: 'Oscar Bluemner's America: Picturing Paterson, New Jersey' (through June 16) This lovely, small show presents works dating from 1910 to 1917 when the American Modernist Bluemner was catching up on European avant-garde developments. He combined realism and Cubism in paintings of farm buildings in rural landscapes and the industrial architecture of Paterson, his hometown. Favoring glowing reds and blues and opaque blacks, he painted images that seem illuminated from within like modern stained-glass windows. 3 South Mountain Avenue, Montclair, N.J., (973) 746-5555, montclairartmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Great and Mighty Things: Outsider Art From the Jill and Sheldon Bonovitz Collection' (through June 9) One good turn generates another: the gift of a beloved, finely calibrated collection of American outsider art to a major encyclopedic museum is celebrated with an equally excellent exhibition of same. It displays around 200 paintings, sculptures, drawings and assemblages, made mostly from the 1930s to the '80s by 27 outsiders, both renowned and less prominent. All are seen here at or close to their best, pressing against the increasingly unjustifiable division between outsider and inside. 2600 Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadelphia, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
American Folk Art Museum: 'Artist and Visionary: William Matthew Prior Revealed' (closes on Sunday) William Matthew Prior (1806-73), the subject of this fascinating exhibition, painted portraits in the ''American primitive'' mode. His paintings of solemn, pie-faced tots, stiffly posed yet animated by some inner mystery, are especially compelling. But he had the chops to paint like a well-trained academician too. He was also an abolitionist who, at some risk to his reputation, painted portraits of black people; they are among his best works. He was also into spiritualism, and he was a savvy entrepreneur. He was, altogether, a most remarkable character. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Helen Berggruen: 'The Open Window: Objects, Rooms and Landscapes' (closes on Saturday) Steeped in the Post-Impressionists, Fauves and the School of Paris in general, these smallish canvases should feel nostalgic but don't. Her emphatic dabs and curling, commalike brush strokes and preference for shimmering variegated color infuses the works with a contemporary awareness -- they seem applied with the exuberance of someone who has just discovered that distorting reality is much more interesting than recording it faithfully. Fischbach Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 759-2345, fischbachgallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Rafael Leonardo Black: 'Insider Art' (closes on Friday) In this fabulously fine-grained Manhattan solo debut, Rafael Leonardo Black combines high and low, black and white, gravity and hilarity, the Parnassian and the pornographic in a set of minute graphite drawings that turn cultural history into a celebrity party. Picasso, Jimi Hendrix, Joseph Cornell, Coco Chanel, Ishmael Read, Nancy Cunard and Queen Ranavalona of Madagascar are among the guests. Two Marcels -- Duchamp and Proust -- are the hosts. Staggering numbers of dots are connecting. Be there. Francis M. Naumann Fine Art, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 582-3201, francisnaumann.com. (Cotter)
Brooklyn Museum: 'Fine Lines: American Drawings From the Brooklyn Museum' (closes on Sunday) Although marred by the tone-deaf exhibition design usual to this museum, the first large display of American drawings from its collection spans over 150 years with more than 100 sheets and six sketchbooks. Well-known artists like Winslow Homer, Ralph Blakelock and Louise Nevelson are well represented, but less familiar figures like Joseph Frank Currier, Louis Bouché and Chaim Gross contribute equally to its excellence. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'The Hugo Boss Prize 2012: Danh Vo' (closes on Monday) Known mostly for attenuated, elliptical works, this year's Hugo Boss recipient opts for density and robustness with a display of some 4,000 items that once belonged to the artist Martin Wong (1946-99). Installed wonder-cabinet style in a shelf-lined gallery, the items range from art to artifact to trinkets; leap across cultures; and trickle from high to low, where racial stereotypes and kitsch frequently take over. It gives us an artist who has decided to function as a curator and an archaeologist and to keep the honor of his prize in motion. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
Keith Mayerson: 'My American Dream' (closes on Saturday) This narrative painting installation begins with President Obama's re-election and ends with a Mayerson family portrait. In between are the city that never sleeps, the Statue of Liberty and James Dean's tombstone, alternating with undulant vaguely fantastical abstractions. As usual it is Mr. Mayerson's sincere and versatile, if sometimes awkward, way with oil paint and brush that forms the through line. Derek Eller Gallery, 615 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-6411, derekeller.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'James Nares: Street' (closes on Monday) Far from pedestrian, this show revolves around a ravishing, 61-minute video projection by the artist James Nares. Called ''Street,'' it consists of long, slow-motion pans of people going about their business on the sidewalks and streets of New York City. To go with it, Mr. Nares combed through the museum's permanent collection and came up with a fascinating array of thematically related photographs, prints, paintings and drawings having largely to do with human and vehicular traffic. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity' (closes on Monday) The title may suggest a double dose of pandering, but the show itself is a stunning combination of great paintings, ravishing gowns, historical clarity and pitch-perfect contextualizing. Demonstrating how the Impressionists and more conservative painters alike used the latest fashions to define their sitters as real people, it builds fascinating webs of new information and viewpoints around some of the best-known, most beloved paintings of all time, quite a few of which don't often travel to this country. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star' (closes on Sunday) History is written by the winners, which in contemporary art usually means the market. It's often also written by people who weren't on the scene and have to take the winners' word for what happened and what mattered. Such is the case with this retrospective show that too often favors the currently best-selling survivors of a fraught era over many now less well-known on-the-ground players. There's good art here, but the spirit of a furiously skeptical utopian moment -- very high, very low -- rarely breaks through the institutional nostalgia. And the chance to probe some market myths -- exactly how political was that 1993 ''political'' Whitney Biennial? -- is lost. Like all surveys of the immediate past, ''NYC 1993'' will get everyone kvetching, and it's a must-see, if only to find ways to bring the story into the present differently. Nari Ward's 1993 installation ''Amazing Grace'' in the New Museum's next-door space is for the ages. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)
'The Pop Object: The Still Life Tradition in Pop Art' (closes on Friday) Pop's debt to traditional still life is nothing new, but it is explicated here with some less than usual suspects like Marjorie Strider, Jann Haworth and Robert Arneson, and a handful of unfamiliar, rarely exhibited or outstanding works. These include Marisol Escobar's carved, painted and drawn portrait of Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein's dour yet chic 1961 ''Black Flowers,'' a tour de force that merges painting, drawing and commercial printing and justifies the whole show. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, Manhattan, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION OF NANNI AND BARBARA BENAZZO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ETHICS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%); GHANA (79%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



772 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Miami's High-Flying, Low-Key Role Player

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
MIAMI -- The Birdman is most comfortable when he is soaring above the chaos, over the rim, poised to swat the basketball away or to slam it home. Elevation has always suited him best.
At the moment, however, the Birdman is sitting, maybe a little uneasily, the focus of two dozen reporters and television cameras, all seeking colorful insight from the Miami Heat's most colorful player, who generally avoids these messy scrums.
Chris Andersen -- known universally as the Birdman, or sometimes just Bird -- responds dutifully, his answers concise, his expression warm but wary. 
When he is flying around the court, with his blond hair gelled up into a Mohawk, his brightly tattooed arms flapping and fans screeching in delight, the Birdman seems the consummate entertainer. The real-world Andersen is more reserved, almost shy, a self-described ''country boy'' from Texas who somehow blends perfectly into the South Beach vibe, and the Heat locker room, where N.B.A. icons and low-wage specialists live in basketball harmony.
''A natural fit,'' center Chris Bosh said Thursday.
Andersen is no attention seeker, but he was impossible to miss in Wednesday night's opener of the Eastern Conference finals, whether he was flying from the baseline to score 16 points or rising high to block the Indiana Pacers' attempts in a 103-102 overtime victory.
The points were a career postseason high for Andersen, 34, in his 11th N.B.A. season. His 7-for-7 shooting -- every shot within 2 feet of the basket -- set a franchise playoff record, besting the 6-for-6 mark by the Heat's Alonzo Mourning in 2007.
''An honor,'' Andersen said, sitting on a stool for this rare group interview. ''But at the same time, my main focus is the Indiana Pacers and trying to get to that championship.''
That goal seems imminently attainable, which is incredible considering that just four months ago Andersen was unemployed, a Bird with nowhere to fly.
The Denver Nuggets waived Andersen last July under the league's amnesty provision, a move that cleared millions of dollars from the salary cap and made room for their younger centers -- JaVale McGee, Kosta Koufos and Timofey Mozgov -- to play and develop. At the time, several teams seemed to shy away from Andersen because of possible off-the-court issues. He also had minor knee surgery.
Despite his sound reputation as a high-energy rebounder, shot blocker, dunker and crowd pleaser, Andersen remained a free agent until the Heat signed him on Jan. 20.
''I was hunting hogs and living that country-boy life,'' he said Thursday.
But Andersen has been through much tougher stretches. In 2006, he was dealt a two-year suspension for violating the N.B.A.'s drug policy. He returned in 2008, clean and sober. So even as he waited for months for the phone to ring last fall and winter, Andersen would not consider the possibility of his career ending.
''I didn't think about that,'' he said.
The 6-foot-10 Andersen was exactly what the Heat needed: a rangy, athletic big man who could protect the rim at one end and finish at the other, a sure-handed receiver to catch all those lobs from LeBron James and Dwyane Wade after they broke down the defense.
''He's changed their team dramatically,'' said Pacers Coach Frank Vogel, whose team lost to the Heat in six games in the 2012 playoffs. ''Just phenomenal rim protection, great finishing at the basket, toughness, size -- all the things that everybody was critical of this team for the last two years, he's brought that. I think it's been a major, major difference maker.''
Andersen's postseason shooting statistics are startling, even for a player who lives around the rim: 35 attempts, 29 makes, for an .829 field-goal percentage. But one statistic shines above them all: the Heat are 48-4 since his arrival.
''He fit in with this team like he's been here the whole time, the whole three years,'' Wade said.
Miami won the title with a small lineup last spring, but Heat officials were always looking for a big man in Andersen's mold, preferably Andersen himself. Coach Erik Spoelstra had repeatedly lobbied Pat Riley, the team president, to acquire him from Denver.
''We had conversations initially,'' Nuggets General Manager Masai Ujiri said. ''It never really worked out.''
Nor did Ujiri want to part with Andersen, whom he considered a friend. Ujiri once made an NBA TV appearance wearing a Birdman T-shirt, at Andersen's prodding, to help him promote his campaign to be included in the dunk contest.
The decision to cut Andersen last summer -- removing the last two years and $9 million of his contract from the cap and helping Denver avoid the luxury tax -- was ''very tough,'' Ujiri said.
It is standard to praise every player as a great person, Ujiri acknowledged, ''but Bird is a legit good guy,'' he said. ''You can ask any teammate or anybody. They all love him.''
That camaraderie is clear in Miami. Not long after Andersen arrived, James and Wade cast him in a starring role in the Heat's instantly famous ''Harlem Shake'' video. Andersen, dressed in his Heat warm-ups, opens the scene by flapping his way through the locker room -- a quiet prelude to the madcap antics that ensue.
''He is an unbelievable character,'' James told The Miami Herald in February.
As Andersen held court on Thursday after practice, James strode by and let out a shrieking squawk in tribute, startling reporters and making Andersen break into a smile.
In 2009, Andersen made the Western Conference finals with the Nuggets, losing to the Lakers in six. But the spotlight is much brighter here, and the championship has never seemed closer.
''You know what, it is incredible,'' Andersen said of his circuitous journey, ''but at the same time I'm just trying to stay in the moment, keep my focus on what I need to do and where I need to improve on. And I know I'm destined for more.''
The Birdman, as enjoyable a character as any in the N.B.A., deserves this stage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Miami's Chris Andersen, defending the Pacers' Lance Stephenson, had 16 points Wednesday, a career postseason best. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RHONA WISE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Andersen, who is known as the Birdman, with his teammate LeBron James. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SANTIAGO/EL NUEVO HERALD, VIA AP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TOURNAMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA PACERS (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); MIAMI HEAT (57%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (76%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (76%); INDIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



773 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Dance
Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance. A searchable guide to these and other performances is at nytimes.com/events.
Adapt Festival (Thursday) The East Coast portion of this bicoastal event occupies just one evening at the Center for Performance Research in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The common denominator in a long lineup of young, interdisciplinary artists (from Slovenia, New York and California) seems to be a connection to ArtBark International, the loosely knit collective that's spearheading the festival. It sounds like a potentially sprawling but fun free-for-all. At 7:30 p.m., 361 Manhattan Avenue, near Jackson Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (800) 838-3006, brownpapertickets.com; $10 in advance, $15 at the door. (Siobhan Burke) 
&#x2605; American Ballet Theater (Friday through July 6) This week is all about Kitri and Basilio (the peasant girl and her sweetheart, the village barber) as the company delivers eight performances of ''Don Quixote,'' a version better known for its pyrotechnic fun than its cohesive storytelling. Xiomara Reyes and Herman Cornejo, both celebrating 10 years as Ballet Theater principals, are the lead couple on Friday. Ivan Vasiliev and Natalia Osipova, that world-famous duo, step into those roles on Saturday night and Tuesday. Veronika Part performs Kitri for the first time (alongside James Whiteside in his New York debut as Basilio) at the Wednesday matinee. Friday, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Wednesday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, abt.org; $20 to $245. (Burke)
&#x2605; Michelle Boulé (Thursday and next Friday) When Ms. Boulé is onstage, it's hard to take your eyes off of her, as anyone who has seen her in the work of Miguel Gutierrez can attest. Lucky for us she has been making a new solo, ''WONDER,'' presented by Issue Project Room at the Church of St. Luke and St. Matthew. As she inhabits and casts off identities, exploring the act of watching and being watched, she may have us questioning whether we're witnessing one performer or many. At 8 p.m., 520 Clinton Avenue, Clinton Hill, (800) 838-3006, issueprojectroom.org; $10, $8 for students. (Burke)
DanceAfrica (Friday through Monday) A Memorial Day weekend tradition, this vibrant festival is in its 36th year. Umkhathi Theater Works, from Zimbabwe, makes its New York debut, while the BAM/Restoration DanceAfrica Ensemble, a dynamic student company based closer to home (in Bedford-Stuyvesant), returns to the festival for the 17th time. Umkhathi Theater Works will also help lead two dance workshops on Monday, at 10 a.m. (for families) and noon (for adults), at the Mark Morris Dance Center, 3 Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn; $10, $5 for $15 and under. In addition to dancing there will be a number of film screenings and concerts, as well as a bazaar with more than 300 vendors, who will be selling their wares on the streets around the Brooklyn Academy of Music from noon to 10 p.m. on Saturday and noon to 8 p.m. on Sunday and Monday. Friday at 7:30 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Sunday and Monday at 3 p.m., Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $20 to $50. (Burke)
Flamenco Vivo Carlota Santana (Wednesday through June 2) Since March, the company has been celebrating its 30th anniversary with an exhibition at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, ''100 Years of Flamenco in New York.'' The festivities extend to the Joyce Theater for five days of performances, featuring dancers and musicians from New York and Spain in works by Roberto Lorca and Angel Muñoz. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday and next Friday at 8 p.m., 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $49. (Burke)
Gallim Dance (Friday through Sunday) The 31-year-old choreographer Andrea Miller has been churning out new work since she founded her company in 2007. Now she takes a moment to revisit one of her early pieces, the hourlong ''Blush,'' which she's updated since its premiere at Joyce SoHo in 2009. Whatever changes she's made, her prowling, contorted physical language will no doubt be there, reminding us how tough and resilient the human body can be. At 8 p.m., Fishman Space, Fisher Building, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 321 Ashland Place, near Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, bam.org/gallimdance, (718) 636-4100; $20 to $40. (Burke)
Natalie Green (Wednesday through June 1) As a dancer, Ms. Green seems to ignite any choreography that comes her way; recently she's been seen searing through works by RoseAnne Spradlin and Tere O'Connor. In Ms. Green's new piece, ''I'm building a shrine'' (performed by Alexandra Albrecht, Stacy Grossfield and Miriam Wolf), that same spark is sure to be there, as she constructs a kinetic altar to her past, honoring a previous version of herself and setting it metaphorically ablaze. At 8 p.m., Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org; $15. (Burke)
Hubbard Street Dance Chicago (Friday through Sunday) With their protean ability to slip effortlessly between styles, these Chicago-based dancers bring two mixed bills to the Joyce Theater. Program A includes pieces by the always-in-demand Aszure Barton, the former company member Robyn Mineko Williams, the resident choreographer Alejandro Cerrudo and Israel's Sharon Eyal and Gai Behar, known for their work with Batsheva Dance Company. There's also a Batsheva connection on Program B, which features ''Three to Max'' by that troupe's eminent director, Ohad Naharin, and ''Casi-Casa'' by one of Europe's most celebrated choreographers, Mats Ek. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $69. (Burke)
Darrell Jones (Friday and Saturday) Brief excerpts from ''Hoo-Ha (for your eyes only)'' at Danspace Project last year made you wonder what else was lurking inside of this eerie, ecstatic dance. Mr. Jones (who has performed with Urban Bush Women, Bebe Miller Company, Min Tanaka and Ralph Lemon) returns to St. Mark's Church with the full work, an exploration of gender fluidity and a voluptuous deconstruction of voguing, performed by Damon Greene, Jsun Howard and himself. Ponytails, rose petals and nylon masks feature prominently. At 8 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $18. (Burke)
Joanna Kotze (Thursday through June 1) At once steely and sultry as a performer (recent appearances with Kimberly Bartosik and Netta Yerushalmy come to mind), Ms. Kotze has also been making her own work since 2004. In her new piece, ''It happened it had happened it is happening it will happen'' (danced by Ms. Kotze, Ms. Yerushalmy and Stuart Singer), she negotiates the line between imposing order and embracing uncertainty, between classification and leaving things unnamed. At 8 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $18, $12 for Danspace members. (Burke)
&#x2605; Yvonne Meier (Thursday through June 1) In Ms. Meier's fantastically unkempt worlds, it's not unusual to find performers embroiled in dangerous, distressing situations -- clawing themselves out, narrowly escaping, or digging themselves deeper. All of the above should factor into ''This is not a pink pony 1'' (a remount of a 2008 piece) -- described in the news release as ''a Dr. Zhivago-like love triangle in wintry wartime'' -- and its new companion piece, ''This is not a pink pony 2,'' in which Ms. Meier abandons her usual method of structured improvisation for set choreography. At 7:30 p.m., Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org; $20. (Burke)
Tiffany Mills (Thursday through June 2) Ms. Mills puts her dancers through a series of precarious games in the premiere of ''Berries and Bulls,'' an expanded version of the quartet that she showed last year at Baryshnikov Arts Center. Comparisons between long-term relationships and impossible tasks are likely to emerge. The audience gets to move around, too, invited to wander on foot through ''The Feast (Part 1),'' a quintet exploring the over- and under-stimulation of our senses. At 7:30 p.m., Fishman Space, Fisher Building, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 321 Ashland Place, near Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, bam.org, (718) 636-4100; $20 for performances; $50 to $250 for Thursday night gala, $40 for students. (Burke)
&#x2605; Movement Research Spring Festival (Friday and Saturday) ''Where is our space? Where is our home?'' ask the curators of this annual festival -- Vanessa Anspaugh, Hilary Clark, Mina Nishimura and Antonio Ramos. This year's lineup, under the title Alternate/Shelter, wrestles with questions about the economics of contemporary performance and where it resides. Don't let the seemingly dry subject deter you; revelry is always central to this week of workshops, installations and creative encounters, which pop up at various locations in Brooklyn and Lower Manhattan. At various times, (212) 598-0551, movementresearch.org; free to $25. (Burke)
New Voices in Live Performance (Friday) Good curators are as vital to the dance field as good choreographers, and this series nurtures both. As one of four curators selected to envision an evening of innovative performance, the dancer Lindsay Clark brings together one artist with a devoted following (Jack Ferver) and three others in the early part of their careers: Bessie Mcdonough-Thayer, Naomi Elena Ramirez and Jacob Slominski. At 7:30 p.m., Center for Performance Research, 361 Manhattan Avenue, near Jackson Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (800) 838-3006, brownpapertickets.com; $10. (Burke)
&#x2605; New York City Ballet (Friday through June 9) For the second half of its spring season, the company is packing 33 ballets into three weeks, no two programs alike. Saturday and Sunday bring three iterations of a Tribute to Broadway, with George Balanchine's ''Who Cares?''; Christopher Wheeldon's ''Carousel (A Dance)''; and Jerome Robbins's ''Fancy Free'' and ''West Side Story Suite'' presented in various combinations. On Wednesday the city gets its first look at Justin Peck's ''In Creases,'' which had its premiere last summer in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday through Thursday at 7:30 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-0600, nycballet.com; $29 to $155. (Burke)
Purchase Dance Company (Friday and Saturday) Students from SUNY Purchase, home to one of the country's most highly regarded dance conservatories, give New York City audiences (and, perhaps, their future employers) a chance to see what they've been working on. The program includes known repertory by Bill T. Jones (''Spent Days Out Yonder'') and George Balanchine (''Valse-Fantaisie''), as well as new works by Ori Flomin, Loni Landon and Claire Porter, choreographed specifically for the troupe. Each night one graduating senior will have a moment in the spotlight. At 7:30 p.m., New York Live Arts, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, newyorklivearts.org; $15 in advance, $20 at the door, $10 for students and 65+. (Burke)
10 Hairy Legs (Thursday through June 2) A new venture from the New Jersey-based choreographer Randy James, this all-male repertory company introduces itself to New York with dances by David Parker and Claire Porter (both known for their lively humor), as well as Manuel Vignoulle (a former member of Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet) and Mr. James. Most of the dancers are recent graduates of the Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers University, where Mr. James has taught for almost 20 years. At 7:30 p.m., New York Live Arts, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, newyorklivearts.org; $20, $15 for students. (Burke)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); BALLET (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); DANCE EDUCATION (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); OPERA (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); SLOVENIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



774 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Housing and Jobs Data Suggest Steady Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Economic data released on Thursday indicated solid job growth and provided further signs that housing is recovering.
The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits fell 23,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 340,000, a level consistent with firm job growth.
And sales of new homes rose in April to the second-highest level since summer 2008, while the median price for a new home hit a high. 
The Labor Department said on Thursday that the less volatile four-week average of jobless claims declined just 500 to 339,500. That is close to the five-year low of 338,000 reached in the first week of May. The four-week average is 9 percent lower than last November.
''The underlying story in jobless claims continues to be one of gradual improvement,'' Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP Paribas, wrote in a research report.
Unemployment claims are a proxy for layoffs. The decline in claims has coincided with steady job growth over the last six months. Since last November, employers have added an average 208,000 jobs a month. That is up from just 138,000 jobs a month in the previous six months.
Still, much of the improvement has come from fewer layoffs, not robust hiring. Employers laid off just 1.7 million workers in March, only slightly above the 12-year low reached in January. Overall hiring remains far below levels before the recession.
More than 4.7 million Americans were receiving unemployment benefits the week that ended May 4, down 23 percent from nearly 6.2 million a year earlier.
The United States still has 2.6 million fewer jobs than when the recession began in December 2007. The unemployment rate has fallen to a four-year low of 7.5 percent, from 10 percent in October 2009. Some of the decline is a result of many people giving up looking for work. The government counts people as unemployed only if they are searching for a job.
The Commerce Department said Thursday that sales of new homes rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 454,000 in April. That was up 2.3 percent from March and slightly below 458,000 in January.
January and April had the fastest sales since July 2008.
The median price of a home sold in April was $271,600, the highest level on government records dating from 1993. The April price was 8.3 percent higher than in March and 13.1 percent higher than a year earlier.
Steady job creation and mortgage rates near record lows are encouraging more Americans to buy homes.
With the April increase, sales are now 29 percent higher than a year ago, but they are still below the 700,000 economists consider healthy.
The strength in April was led by a 10.8 percent increase in sales in the West. Sales in the South were up 3 percent, but sales fell 16.7 percent in the Northeast and 4.8 percent in the Midwest.
Sales of previously owned homes rose in April to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.97 million, the highest level in three and a half years.
Greater demand, along with fewer homes for sale, is also increasing prices in most markets and encouraging more construction.
Applications for permits to build homes rose in April to the highest level in nearly five years. While construction of new homes and apartments slipped a bit in April, the decline occurred a month after construction topped one million for the first time since June 2008.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); STATISTICS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



775 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Gun Manufacturers Say Assault Weapons Ban May Push Them Out of Connecticut

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
NEW BRITAIN, Conn. -- In a state desperate to maintain and revive its industrial base, Mark Malkowski thinks he should be getting gold stars.
He started a manufacturing company at age 25, and in 10 years built it into an industry leader, with 200 employees, that sells 6,000 of its products every month at roughly $1,000 each. The company, Stag Arms, is currently almost a year behind in fulfilling orders.
But when you are manufacturing AR-15 assault rifles 40 miles from Newtown in a state that has banned their sale, it is not surprising that things are more complicated.
The bitter battle over new gun laws in Connecticut has passed. But two months later, gunmakers like Mr. Malkowski are still weighing their options, including moving from a state long thought of as a cradle of the American gun industry. Meanwhile, supporters of the legislation are balancing their desire to limit guns with the jobs and taxes that the gun industry provides in a country where 300 million guns are in circulation and 5 million are manufactured each year. 
PTR Industries of Bristol, which also manufactures military-style rifles, has already announced it will move from Connecticut. Sturm Ruger & Co. has said it plans to keep its headquarters, with a staff of fewer than 50 people, in Fairfield while continuing to expand its manufacturing outside Connecticut.
Mr. Malkowski, 35, whose parents own a business that makes aerospace and gun parts here, says he will most likely take a year to study whether to move to a more gun-friendly state. The issue is also playing out in other states with tough gun laws, like Colorado, where Magpul Industries, which makes high-capacity magazines, has said it will leave the state.
Mr. Malkowski's roots are in Connecticut, where he grew up and graduated from Southington High School and Sacred Heart University. But at the National Rifle Association convention in early May he got a personal pitch to relocate from Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, and he has received solicitations from more than 50 states or municipalities.
When he came back from a gun industry lobbying trip to Washington in April, he said that virtually everywhere he had gone in Congress, people were pitching the virtues of their states as places to do business.
''Senator Lindsey Graham did it, so did Paul Ryan, Texas, Oklahoma, well, all of them,'' he said. ''And this is what I came back to when I opened the mail. Indiana, Arkansas, Maine, the Oklahoma House of Representatives; this is from Jackson County, Kansas; this is from Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama. They just keep coming in.''
Although many manufacturers and gun jobs have left Connecticut over the years, the state remains the seventh-largest producer of firearms in the country. It is the home of giants like Colt's Manufacturing, which employs about 900 people, Sturm, Ruger & Co. and Mossberg & Sons, the oldest family-owned firearms manufacturer in America. According to the National Shooting Sports Foundation, located in Newtown, gun manufacturers in Connecticut account for 2,899 jobs -- 7,340 when related businesses, like suppliers, are included -- and have a $1.7 billion economic impact. A study by the same group said the firearms industry accounted for $31.8 billion in total economic activity nationally.
The disparities can look awkward. Connecticut lawmakers have been pushing to create a national park at the historic former site of the Colt's firearms plant in Hartford -- while pushing for sweeping gun legislation. And many gun opponents say they hope the gun manufacturers remain in Connecticut even if the products they produce are banned there.
Ron Pinciaro, executive director of an anti-gun group, Connecticut Against Gun Violence, said he would not want to see Connecticut employees hurt because of the vote.
''I wish they would stay here,'' he said, ''and I don't really see that as being contradictory.''
But many in the industry are bitter about the legislation.
''I think companies will continue to leave Connecticut both because it's a terrible place to be a manufacturer and because of the political environment,'' said Lawrence G. Keane, senior vice president and general counsel of the shooting sports foundation. ''It's completely hypocritical to say you can stay and make your products, but they're so dangerous your employees can't buy them.''
While the legislation bans the sale of certain weapons, it does not restrict manufacturing. Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, a particular object of gunmakers' ire, has already reached out to gunmakers, saying he would like them to stay in Connecticut. But he did not make any new friends when he told CNN in April: ''What this is about is the ability of the gun industry to sell as many guns to as many people as possible, even if they're deranged, even if they're mentally ill, even if they have a criminal record. They don't care.''
The remark infuriated Connecticut manufacturers, but Mr. Malloy's spokesman, Andrew Doba, said that the industry's success in killing expanded background checks helped make Mr. Malloy's point.
''The governor,'' he said, ''thinks about jobs and economic development 24 hours a day.''
''On this particular issue, however,'' Mr. Doba added, ''his focus is first and foremost on public safety. The bill he signed into law will improve public safety and make Connecticut's communities and families safer.''
Gunmakers like Mr. Malkowski say that rifles account for a tiny percentage of gun crime, so bans on military-style rifles like the AR-15 will have little effect on gun violence while restricting what has become one of the nation's most popular weapons. The industry now bills them as ''modern sporting rifles.''
The gun industry says the term reflects how weapons like the AR-15 are now widely used for target shooting, hunting and self-defense. Critics say it reflects a toxic arms race within the arms industry in a country with 100,000 gun deaths and injuries a year.
In addition to the idea of moving, Mr. Malkowski has produced another option, a new design for the AR-15: It looks the same, uses smaller .22-caliber bullets, rather than the longer, more powerful .223 rounds commonly used in the AR-15 and complies with Connecticut's new law. He said he already had 300 to 400 orders from Connecticut gun shops.
Beyond bruised feelings, Mr. Malkowski said, Connecticut gun manufacturers have real-world concerns emanating from the legislation in the form of threats by gun buyers to boycott products made in Connecticut. He cites letters, e-mails and Facebook postings from customers who say they will not do business with a gun maker from Connecticut. One says: ''If you guys don't leave Connecticut, you are hypocrites to the Second Amendment, and I will never purchase your products again.''
Mr. Pinciaro said his argument was not with Mr. Malkowski's product. It is with who gets to use weapons like the AR-15 and what kind of regulations and protections should be in place.
''If Stag Arms wants to manufacture and sell for military and police use, I hope they get 90 percent of the market,'' he said. ''But when it comes to putting these weapons in the hands of civilians, it's just been shown too often that they just don't belong.''
Mr. Malkowski said he would keep an eye on the costs and benefits of moving, potential challenges to Connecticut's laws and the market reaction to Connecticut-made guns as he considers his future. One of the companies he does business with, Ammunition Storage Components, also of New Britain, is weighing similar offers and issues and could make the same decision he does.
''Connecticut isn't getting any easier to do business in,'' Mr. Malkowski said.
''But we're trying to step away from the emotional part of this, do what's best for the company and put the employees and customers ahead of everything else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Stag Arms in New Britain this week, Teresa Adamczyk inspected rifles. The store's owner said he may move out of the state.
 Rudimentary gun parts at Stag Arms, which sells 6,000 AR-15 assault rifles a month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (96%); GUN CONTROL (91%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: STURM RUGER & CO INC (69%)

TICKER: RGR (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331512 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (69%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (69%); SIC3324 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (69%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (52%); PAUL RYAN (52%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



776 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Some Cracks in the Cult of Technocrats

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- We are living in the age of the technocrats. In business, Big Data, and the Big Brains who can parse it, rule. In government, the technocrats are on top, too. From Washington to Frankfurt to Rome, technocrats have stepped in where politicians feared to tread, rescuing economies, or at least propping them up, in the process.
Technocrats are in vogue within the intelligentsia, too. It is well nigh impossible to pick up a book about any social or political issue nowadays (including, I hasten to admit, my own) without coming across some data-heavy social science research. And the familiar pleas for common sense and a centrist approach, free from the taint of ideology, usually boil down to a call to put the technocrats in charge. 
Technocrats have a lot to recommend them. We do, after all, live in the age of Big Data, and ignoring it or not being able to use it is a sure path to either bankruptcy or humiliation -- witness the data jock extraordinaire Nate Silver and his legendary smackdowns of columnists who rely on anecdote and intuition.
But, particularly in the wake of 2008, a global crisis that technocrats both helped cause and failed to predict, there are also sound reasons not to rely mechanically on technocratic solutions. That's why it is worth reading a new paper by Daron Acemoglu of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and James Robinson of Harvard University.
In their seminal 2012 book, ''Why Nations Fail,'' Dr. Acemoglu and Dr. Robinson offered a powerful new framework for understanding why some societies thrive and others decline -- those based on inclusive growth succeed, while those where growth is extractive wither.
Their new study, ''Economics Versus Politics: Pitfalls of Policy Advice,'' will be published later this year in the Journal of Economic Perspectives and is available now in draft form as a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper. It tackles an essential subject in the age of technocracy -- the limits of technocratic thinking as a basis for policy.
Their critique is not the standard technocrat's lament that wise policy is, alas, politically impossible to implement. Instead, their concern is that policy which is eminently sensible in theory can fail in practice because of its unintended political consequences.
In particular, they believe we need to be cautious about ''good'' economic policies that have the side effect of either reinforcing already dominant groups or weakening already frail ones.
''You should apply double caution when it comes to policies which will strengthen already powerful groups,'' Dr. Acemoglu told me. ''The central starting point is a certain suspicion of elites. You really cannot trust the elites when they are totally in charge of policy.''
An example discussed in the paper -- and an issue on which Dr. Acemoglu changed his own mind in the course of writing it -- is the role of trade unions.
''My view for a long time was that labor organizations had become rent-seeking,'' the economics term for groups that specialize in getting a bigger share of the pie, rather than making it grow over all, he said. ''Now, my view is that even though we are not transitioning from dictatorship to democracy, you need some labor organizations as a counterweight to business lobbying.''
They make the argument at greater length in the paper: ''Faced with a trade union exercising monopoly power and raising the wages of its members, most economists would advocate removing or limiting the union's ability to exercise this monopoly power, and that is certainly the right policy in some circumstances. But unions do not just influence the way the labor market functions; they also have important implications for the political system. Historically, unions have played a key role in the creation of democracy in many parts of the world, particularly in Western Europe.''
Two other important examples the study dissects are financial deregulation in the United States and privatization in post-Soviet Russia. In both cases, economic reforms that made a lot of sense in the abstract and in terms of economic efficiency had the unintended consequence of strengthening already powerful political interests.
As the powerful often do, they overplayed their hand. The result was a political spiral which in the United States helped set off the 2008 financial crisis and in Russia led to the rise of President Vladimir V. Putin and his authoritarian regime.
This paper reminds us of something important, which critics of the elite often don't understand, or don't want to understand. In both the United States and in Russia, the reforms which strengthened powerful vested interests didn't begin as a cunning plot by a wealthy cabal, intent on further enriching itself. Instead, they were endorsed and advocated by today's high priests, the technocrats, who sincerely believed they were acting in the common good.
''What our paper is targeted at is, there is a certain hubristic attitude among economists -- we are the queen of the social sciences because we use numbers and data,'' said Dr. Acemoglu, who is a professor in M.I.T.'s department of economics. ''But that can ignore the implications of political power.''
That reminded me of a Russian oligarch who once told me he had been prepared to pay a bribe to influence the privatization process in his favor. But, he delightedly recalled, he soon discovered that all he needed to do was explain that the policy would further the cause of market reforms in Russia. Then, as he put it, ''like little darlings,'' the technocrats in charge hastened to put it into action.
That's the big takeaway from the Acemoglu and Robinson paper: There is no such thing as pure policy, and we should check our pockets and lock our doors when someone tells us otherwise.
Chrystia Freeland is editor of Thomson Reuters Digital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIG DATA (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WRITERS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



777 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: European Parliament Approves Resolution Limiting the Scope of a Free-Trade Pact

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The European Parliament passed a resolution on Thursday demanding that the free-trade pact now under discussion with the United States exempt ''audiovisual'' industries so that countries like France could shelter their movie businesses from foreign competition.
The resolution, which also called for similar protections to be granted for online media, underlined the sensitivity in parts of Europe to the encroachment of American culture. It also represented a reality check for trade talks that in their early stages had generated enormous optimism but could still bog down in trans-Atlantic acrimony.
''This vote shows the honeymoon phase is over,'' said Marietje Schaake, a Dutch member of the European Parliament for the free-market D66 party. She was referring to the excitement that many trade advocates had felt since February, when President Barack Obama endorsed U.S. efforts to reach a trade deal with the European Union that would create a partnership between the biggest markets in the world. 
While the resolution is not binding on the Union's governments, which still must agree on a mandate for the European Commission to begin negotiating with Washington, the vote was a signal that the Parliament was prepared to use newly acquired powers to block any eventual agreement with the United States that it disliked. And ultimately, the Parliament's consent would be necessary as part of any final passage.
Trade officials from various E.U. member states planned to meet in Brussels on Friday to discuss the mandate, which members of Parliament said Thursday that they expected to be approved by mid-June. A similar process is under way in the United States, where Congress is in a 90-day consulting period with the Obama administration.
The British government immediately signaled frustration with the European Parliament for demanding so-called carve-outs, which could make bargaining more difficult for concessions in areas that the Americans consider sensitive.
''We want to realize all the potential benefits of this deal for businesses and consumers,'' a British government spokesman said, on condition that he not be named, as is customary. ''That's why we believe that we should put all sectors on the table at the start of negotiations,'' the spokesman said.
The resolution that passed Thursday did broadly welcome the prospect of trade talks with the United States.
But the inclusion of the paragraph about cultural industries that passed Thursday ''summarizes how challenging it will be to reconcile the goal of raising growth by breaking down barriers with the tensions and political demands that crop up at the more local level,'' said Ms. Schaake, who advocates a far-reaching deal between Europe and the United States.
The resolution comes as European filmmakers and governments in countries like France seek the right to preserve state subsidies for filmmakers and maintain requirements that television and radio stations broadcast at least a minimum number of European programs.
Karel De Gucht, the Union's trade commissioner, has pledged in the trade talks to preserve the principle of cultural diversity, including allowing member states to set quotas for European movies and other cultural goods, and to subsidize European productions.
But he has also repeatedly warned that full-scale exclusion of media, including digital media, from the talks could significantly narrow the scope of any eventual deal.
''We are already streaming content without borders'' and ''we should also have the possibility to discuss about the audiovisual sector,'' Mr. De Gucht said at a business conference in Brussels last week. ''We should not carve out the audiovisual sector; it will be a mistake, and it's also not good to start negotiations on the basis of carve-outs.''
The vote, held at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, passed by a wide margin, with 460 votes in favor, 105 against and 28 abstentions.
The resolution called for a comprehensive trade agreement and noted the many jobs that it could create, in principle at least. The lawmakers underlined some of their other priorities, including being kept ''immediately and fully informed'' at all stages of the talks.
''Parliament has teeth and can bite,'' said Vital Moreira, a Socialist member of the European Parliament from Portugal who prepared the resolution and steered it through the chamber.
The United States and the Union, between them, already account for about half of global economic output and one-third of world trade. Bilateral trade in 2011 amounted to &#x20ac;455 billion, or about $588 billion, with a positive balance for the Union of more than &#x20ac;72 billion, according to the European Commission.
The United States is the bloc's main export market, buying &#x20ac;264 billion of goods, or about 17 percent of total E.U. exports, according to figures the commission issued in March.
A free-trade deal with the United States could expand gross domestic product by 0.5 percent in the Union about a decade after the pact enters in force, the European Commission, the Union's administrative arm, said in March. That would translate into an extra &#x20ac;545 a year for each family of four in the Union, the commission said. Mr. De Gucht said the same month that the deal would generate ''hundreds of thousands of jobs.''
Previous attempts to forge a trans-Atlantic free-trade deal have failed. And any new attempt at a pact faces huge obstacles -- beyond the question of audiovisual restrictions -- because some of the biggest gains would come not from the relatively easy goal of dropping tariffs but from removing restrictions like customs procedures that can and do create bureaucratic hurdles.
The Union also wants to pry open so-called public procurement markets and scrap ''Buy American'' clauses that restrict the ability of European companies to sell goods and services to U.S. states and cities. The Europeans also have long complained about restrictions on foreign ownership of U.S. airlines.
The Americans, in turn, are eager to see a reduction in barriers to exports of agricultural goods, including produce from genetically modified organisms and cloning, which many Europeans oppose.
The talks also could run into difficulties over European initiatives like privacy restrictions on major online operators like Facebook and Google, and a tax on financial transactions aimed at recouping money from investment banks.
Government officials and industrialists who support a trade pact have argued that things are different this time because Europe, in the throes of a recession and debt crisis, is seeking ways to accelerate growth without raising domestic spending. Proponents also maintain that the United States is eager to set global standards with Europe, to create a model that giant emerging economies like China might have no choice but to follow.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cinema on the Champs-Élysées in Paris. France would like to shelter its movie and online media businesses from competition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATHIEU WILLCOCKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



778 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Japan The Model

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
A generation ago, Japan was widely admired -- and feared -- as an economic paragon. Business best sellers put samurai warriors on their covers, promising to teach you the secrets of Japanese management; thrillers by the likes of Michael Crichton portrayed Japanese corporations as unstoppable juggernauts rapidly consolidating their domination of world markets.
Then Japan fell into a seemingly endless slump, and most of the world lost interest. The main exceptions were a relative handful of economists, a group that happened to include Ben Bernanke, now the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and yours truly. These Japan-obsessed economists viewed the island nation's economic troubles, not as a demonstration of Japanese incompetence, but as an omen for all of us. If one big, wealthy, politically stable country could stumble so badly, they wondered, couldn't much the same thing happen to other such countries? 
Sure enough, it both could and did. These days we are, in economic terms, all Japanese -- which is why the ongoing economic experiment in the country that started it all is so important, not just for Japan, but for the world.
In a sense, the really remarkable thing about ''Abenomics'' -- the sharp turn toward monetary and fiscal stimulus adopted by the government of Prime Minster Shinzo Abe -- is that nobody else in the advanced world is trying anything similar. In fact, the Western world seems overtaken by economic defeatism.
In America, for example, there are still more than four times as many long-term unemployed workers as there were before the economic crisis, but Republicans only seem to want to talk about fake scandals. And, to be fair, it has also been a long time since President Obama said anything forceful publicly about job creation.
Still, at least we're growing. Europe's economy is back in recession, and it has actually grown a bit less over the past six years than it did between 1929 and 1935; meanwhile, it keeps hitting new highs for unemployment. Yet there is no hint of a major change in policy. At best, we may be looking at a slight relaxation of the savage austerity programs Brussels and Berlin are imposing on debtor nations.
It would be easy for Japanese officials to make the same excuses for inaction that we hear all around the North Atlantic: they are hamstrung by a rapidly aging population; the economy is weighed down by structural problems (and Japan's structural problems, especially its discrimination against women, are legendary); debt is too high (far higher, as a share of the economy, than that of Greece). And in the past, Japanese officials have, indeed, been very fond of making such excuses.
The truth, however -- a truth that the Abe government apparently gets -- is that all of these problems are made worse by economic stagnation. A short-term boost to growth won't cure all of Japan's ills, but, if it can be achieved, it can be the first step toward a much brighter future.
So, how is Abenomics working? The safe answer is that it's too soon to tell. But the early signs are good -- and, no, Thursday's sudden drop in Japanese stocks doesn't change that story.
The good news starts with surprisingly rapid Japanese economic growth in the first quarter of this year -- actually, substantially faster growth than that in the United States, while Europe's economy continued to shrink. You never want to make too much of one quarter's numbers, but that's the kind of thing we want to see.
Meanwhile, Japanese stocks have soared, while the yen has fallen. And, in case you're wondering, a weak yen is very good news for Japan because it makes the country's export industries more competitive.
Some observers have raised the alarm over rising Japanese long-term interest rates, even though these rates are still less than 1 percent. But the combination of rising interest rates and rising stock prices suggests that both reflect an increase in optimism, not worries about Japanese solvency.
To be sure, Thursday's sell-off in Japanese stocks put a small dent in that optimistic assessment. But stocks are still way up from last year, and I'm old enough to remember Black Monday in 1987, when U.S. stocks suddenly fell more than 20 percent for no obvious reason, and the ongoing economic recovery suffered not at all.
So the overall verdict on Japan's effort to turn its economy around is so far, so good. And let's hope that this verdict both stands and strengthens over time. For if Abenomics works, it will serve a dual purpose, giving Japan itself a much-needed boost and the rest of us an even more-needed antidote to policy lethargy.
As I said at the beginning, at this point the Western world has seemingly succumbed to a severe case of economic defeatism; we're not even trying to solve our problems. That needs to change -- and maybe, just maybe, Japan can be the instrument of that change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); DEBTOR NATIONS (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); AGING (50%); AGING TRENDS (50%); DISCRIMINATION (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (68%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%) JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (74%); BELGIUM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



779 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Student Loan Bill Passes House, Setting Up Face-Off

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House on Thursday passed legislation to head off a doubling of student loan interest rates on July 1, instead tying rates to prevailing market trends and ending federal subsidies.
The bill, approved largely along party lines, 221 to 198, kicks off what is sure to be the next showdown involving House Republicans, Senate Democrats and President Obama, with a hard deadline looming in little more than a month.
Republicans said they had come up with a long-term plan that would get the government out of the business of setting interest rates. 
''What the House is doing today is a responsible way to deal honestly with the issue of student loans,'' Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said. ''Can somebody politicize this on the other side of the aisle? Certainly they can.''
Democrats jumped on the issue to say that House leaders are intent on raising the cost of already-onerous student debt. They quickly signaled that the brewing fight would become a major political rallying cry.
''It's really stunning,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader.
At stake is a subsidized loan rate of 3.4 percent for more than 7.4 million students with federal Stafford loans, which will jump to 6.8 percent if Congress fails to act. Democrats fixed the 3.4-percent rate before Republicans took control of the House in 2011. Last June, Republicans buckled under political pressure and extended the subsidized rate for one year, just two days before its expiration.
This time, Republican leaders insist they will hold firm, but they face Democrats in the Senate dead set against their approach and a threatened White House veto.
''Who's going to set interest rates, politicians here or the markets?'' asked Representative John Kline, Republican of Minnesota, chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce.
The House bill would allow student lending rates to reset each year, based on the interest rate of a 10-year Treasury note, plus 2.5 percentage points for Stafford loans. The Congressional Budget Office projected that rates on Stafford loans would rise to 5 percent in 2014 and 7.7 percent in 2023.
Under the legislation, Stafford loans would be capped at 8.5 percent, while loans for parents and graduate students would have a 10.5 percent cap.
The legislation would cut the deficit by $3.7 billion over 10 years, a small but politically significant number, since White House officials say the deficit should not be reduced on the backs of indebted college graduates.
Senate Democrats want to extend the current subsidized rate for at least two years. The cost to the federal government, $8.3 billion, would be paid for by closing tax loopholes.
Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, would go further, setting a 4-percent rate for all student loans and allowing graduates with higher-interest-rate loans to refinance at that level.
But Mr. Obama has a different proposal that would fall somewhere between the House and Senate bills. He, too, would set student lending rates each year based on Treasury's borrowing costs, but those rates would be fixed for the life of the loan, not reset each year. He would also cap student-borrowing costs at 10 percent of a student's income.
The White House proposal has divided Democrats and given Republicans some hope that a negotiated solution can be reached in June. House Republicans said Thursday that they had been negotiating with the White House for weeks, but that those talks broke off under pressure from Congressional Democrats.
Ms. Gillibrand said the White House income cap should be set at 5 percent, and she still opposes setting rates by market forces, even if those rates are not allowed to fluctuate, as the president has proposed.
''The reason why the federal government has made the decision to subsidize education is because getting a college education is the gateway to the middle class,'' Ms. Gillibrand said. ''If you want to create a growing economy and to create long-term investment in our future, that means investing in our kids.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); VETO (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); POLITICS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%); JOHN KLINE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



780 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Fed Fears Shake Global Markets but Fade on Wall St.

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER; David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris, Hiroko Tabuchi from Tokyo, and Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
Investors are contemplating a future without support from one of the biggest engines of the global economy in recent years: the Federal Reserve.
Fears that the Fed is about to reduce its stimulus helped send stock, bond and currency prices on a wild ride on Wednesday and Thursday, with Japanese stocks experiencing their worst one-day decline since the 2011 tsunami and United States indexes slumping before ending the day down slightly.
Japan's losses were fed in part by disappointing data on the Chinese economy. Around the world, though, traders debated the significance of the statement made on Wednesday before Congress by the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, that a change could come in ''the next few meetings'' of the central bank's policy-setting committee.
The stimulus programs initiated by Mr. Bernanke have helped feed a four-year rally in United States stock prices and inspired other central banks to follow suit. But even fans of the Fed's efforts have said that the size and scope of the stimulus make it hard to know what will happen once the Fed begins to take its foot off the gas, paving the way for unanticipated consequences and more market volatility. 
''There are no neat answers, because we've never been in this situation before,'' said Marshall Front, co-founder of the money manager Front Barnett Associates, who has been preparing his firm's portfolios for uncertainty.
Fed officials are aware of the confusion that lies in store and have emphasized that any changes are still a ways off and likely to be carried out slowly. The president of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, James Bullard, said in a speech in London on Thursday that even after the central bank begins to slow monetary stimulus, policy makers could step in again if the economy seems to falter.
The nerves of at least some American investors were calmed by the end of Thursday. After starting the day down more than 1 percent, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index recovered to finish the day down 0.3 percent, or 4.84 points, at 1,650.51. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.1 percent, or 12.67 points, to close at 15,294.50. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.88 points, or 0.1 percent, to 3,459.42. In the market for United States government bonds, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury rose 6/32, to 97 20/32, and the yield fell to 2.02 percent from 2.04 late on Wednesday.
Other stock markets were hit harder. In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei index suffered a 7.3 percent rout. Leading indexes were down about 2.1 percent in Germany, France and Britain.
Speculation that the Fed will slow its monthly purchases of government bonds has been growing for months. Investors have known that the central bank's efforts could not continue forever, and many asset managers have begun to prepare their portfolios for the day when the Fed pulls back.
Mr. Front's firm has sold all of its long-term bonds to reduce exposure to any future changes in interest rates, and it no longer holds any Treasury bonds. In a more optimistic vein, the firm has been shifting money into riskier stocks on the assumption that rising interest rates will be accompanied by growing economies around the world.
Before this week, even many close Fed watchers assumed that any change would not come before the end of the year. But Mr. Bernanke's comments on Wednesday led many strategists to bump up their forecasts a few months to September.
''This might be closer than we thought,'' said John Bellows, a former Treasury Department official who now works at Western Asset.
When the Fed does shift gears, Mr. Bernanke has indicated, the process will be gradual and will begin with a slow tapering of bond purchases. Even that will commence only if the labor market grows stronger and unemployment falls further.
The economic data coming out of the United States on Thursday showed slight signs of improvement. The number of people who filed for unemployment benefits last week was 340,000, lower than analysts had expected and lower than the week before. And the number of new homes sold rose more than expected, to the highest level since 2010.
The housing market has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Fed's purchases of government and mortgage-backed bonds. When the Fed slows the purchase of those bonds, other investors may become less eager to buy the bonds, and mortgage rates could rise for prospective homeowners, exerting a new drag on the housing market.
The way that investors respond to the Fed's changing policy will determine how the economy is affected. That will be hard to predict even for the smart minds at the Fed, said William O'Donnell, the head of Treasury bond strategy at RBS Securities.
''We've supported the Fed's actions for a long time,'' Mr. O'Donnell said. ''But we've long harbored fears that the exit is likely to be messy with lots of unintended consequences.''
The harshest critics of the Fed are worried that a change in policy could pop what some believe to be an artificially inflated bubble in stock prices. But even many investors who expect further volatility do not expect any significant reversal in the big market rally of the last few years.
Peter C. Andersen, a portfolio manager at Congress Asset Management, has been buying growth-oriented stocks in preparation for another rise in the stock market. He noted that the Fed was likely to let interest rates rise only if the economy was improving, which would in turn help American stocks. Mr. Anderson added that the Fed was giving markets plenty of notice of even small changes in policy.
''They've been exceptionally good at communicating their intentions,'' Mr. Anderson said.
Whatever the uncertainty in the United States, the picture is even murkier overseas. The Japanese government, which has been trying to follow the Fed's lead in stimulating its own economy, faced a setback on Thursday in the plummet of the Nikkei. Shares in Tokyo fluctuated widely Friday, jumping over 500 points, or 3.5 percent, in the first 10 minutes of trading, then in the afternoon falling 3.5 percent from the previous day's finish, before closing up 0.9 percent.
Thursday's drop was a sharp reversal for a stock market that has been one of the world's best performers this year, thanks to the energizing effect of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's economic shock therapy.
There was disagreement about what had caused the dive. The Fed took some of the blame, as did the release of data on China's manufacturing sector. The China purchasing managers' index, released by HSBC, fell to 49.6 points in May from 50.4 a month earlier, suggesting a slowdown in the Chinese economy, the world's largest after the United States. A reading below 50 signals a contraction.
China's slowing momentum has been, to some extent, deliberately engineered by the authorities in Beijing, who are trying to balance the pace of growth. Still, disappointments over the performance of China's economy -- the second largest in the world after that of the United States -- remain liable to unsettle markets around the globe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A welder in a factory in Luoyang, China. A report released on Thursday showed that manufacturing slowed in China in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY, VIA REUTERS)
The Tokyo Stock Exchange after the trading ended Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCK ROBICHON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B8) CHARTS: Calming the Anxiety: Initial reactions to a drop in Japan's stock market leveled off. (Source: Bloomberg) (B1)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (65%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) HENAN, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



781 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Service for 9-Year-Old Is the First for Two Dozen Tornado Victims

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS; Manny Fernandez reported from Oklahoma City, and Emma G. Fitzsimmons from New York.

 BODY:
OKLAHOMA CITY -- Three days after one of the most destructive tornadoes to strike Oklahoma in decades, people here filed into a mortuary chapel on Thursday morning amid heavy rain and flashes of lightning for the first of two dozen funerals.
As soaked mourners stepped into the South Colonial Chapel, they were handed a strand of pink yarn and asked to tie it to a finger or wrist. Of the 24 people killed by the tornado that damaged or leveled parts of this city and the suburb of Moore on Monday, seven were 8- and 9-year-old students at Plaza Towers Elementary School in Moore. 
The first funeral was for one of those students, Antonia Lee Candelaria, 9. Tonie, to friends and family.
She and the other students who died were in the same third-grade class at Plaza Towers. Their teacher, Jennifer Doan, tried to protect them in a hallway as the tornado approached, her boyfriend, Nyle Rogers, said. But the building caved in around them with the force of winds that reached speeds of 210 m.p.h. Antonia's best friend, classmate and neighbor, Emily Conatzer, 9, was also killed.
''They were always giggling, running, laughing and playing,'' Antonia's family said in an online obituary. ''They were inseparable, even in their last moments, they held on to one another and followed each other into heaven and they will never be alone.''
Emily's funeral will be held Saturday at 10 a.m. at the First Baptist Church of Moore. The funeral for another classmate, Christopher Legg, 9, will follow at 2 p.m.
The service for Antonia was nine miles from the wreckage of the school. In the chapel, family photos of her were displayed on large framed boards. Relatives filled the pews, as did a number of children with their parents. The program was adorned with ladybugs, which she loved, and country music played in the background. Antonia liked to sing and knew most of the lyrics to the songs on her favorite country station.
''Tonie always danced, not walked, to the beat of her own drum,'' the obituary read. ''And she banged her drum very well.''
The storm caused as much as $2 billion in damage, and it damaged or destroyed 1,200 homes in Moore and Oklahoma City, affecting about 33,000 people, the authorities said Thursday. The number of affected homes is significantly lower than officials' previous estimate of 12,000. A spokeswoman for the state Department of Emergency Management said the numbers were preliminary and the damage assessment had not been completed. Nearly 400 people were injured.
In Moore, a working-class suburb south of Oklahoma City, officials have completed their search and rescue operation, and all of the people thought to be missing have been accounted for. The focus has shifted to clean up, along with providing emergency services for those left homeless or jobless.
Labor officials were helping people sign up for unemployment benefits, and other officials were assisting those who lost their birth certificates and other forms of identification in the storm. The Salvation Army has fed thousands of residents, and volunteers with the American Red Cross were busy cleaning family photos found in the rubble.
At a news conference on Thursday in the lobby of Moore City Hall, state and local officials asked people to attend a memorial service for the victims on Sunday at First Baptist Church.
State lawmakers, in their last week of the legislative session, voted to tap $45 million from the state's rainy-day fund for disaster relief, and Gov. Mary Fallin said she would sign the bill as soon as it reached her desk.
A group of state lawmakers, led by two who represent damaged areas in Oklahoma City and Moore, Representatives Mark McBride and Jon Echols, were establishing a nonprofit organization to raise private money to build or retrofit storm shelters in schools across Oklahoma.
Plaza Towers had no safe rooms and no underground shelter, and parents of students as well as other residents have questioned whether the school was safe. The two lawmakers said the Apache Corporation, an oil and gas exploration and production company, had donated $500,000 for shelters in Moore's public schools.
Ms. Fallin said requiring the state's schools to have storm shelters or safe rooms was an idea that needed to be discussed, but she stopped short of supporting such a mandate on Thursday.
''I think it's something we need to think about and to plan, and not rush into something,'' she said.
All of the victims have been identified, and all but one of their bodies have been returned to their families. The youngest was a 4-month-old boy, Case Futrell. The oldest was Deanna Ward, 70.
Terri Long, 49, was making her way home on Monday to make sure her daughter was safe when she pulled over and sought shelter at a 7-Eleven convenience store. She had lived through the 1999 tornado that leveled parts of Moore and was afraid of the storms, said Kathryn Brewer, her sister-in-law.
''As soon as the footage started being shown, we recognized the 7-Eleven and saw that it didn't exist anymore,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''My husband took off and headed in that direction. I couldn't stop him. He kept calling her cellphone. My husband was still holding out hope that things would turn out all right.''
Ms. Long's home was destroyed, but her husband and her three children were safe. She would have turned 50 next week, and was looking forward to watching her youngest daughter graduate from Southmoore High School on Saturday, Ms. Brewer said. She loved riding motorcycles; her family bought a Harley-Davidson sticker to put on her coffin.
For more than 30 years, Hemant Bhonde, 65, lived about a block from Plaza Towers. He was at home with his wife when the sky darkened.
''In Oklahoma, we're used to tornadoes, but this is more than we're used to,'' his wife, Jerrie Bhonde, said Thursday from a hospital where she was being treated for fractured ribs and other injuries. ''We went into the middle of our house where there is an enclosed bathroom. That day, the tornado just hit and all of a sudden we were surrounded by walls coming down on us. My husband was lifted up into heaven. I tried to hold his hand, but he just blew out of my hand.''
Mr. Bhonde's remains were cremated. His wife had lost everything in the storm, their house and their belongings. The urn for his ashes, like so much else in Moore these days, was donated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some people who attended the memorial service on Thursday for Antonia Lee Candelaria used umbrellas to protect their privacy from news photographers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); TORNADOES (92%); WEATHER (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); CITIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); COUNTRY MUSIC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



782 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: City Gives the Garden's Owners a Deadline on Penn Station

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
The owners of Madison Square Garden have been given an ultimatum: Make life more bearable for the hundreds of thousands of commuters who shuffle daily through the corridors of Pennsylvania Station crammed beneath the arena or face eviction.
The New York City Planning Commission voted unanimously on Wednesday to extend the Garden's operating permit for 15 years, during which time the arena's owners could either make plans to move or substantially improve the transportation hub.
''The best possible outcomes for the city would be a relocated Madison Square Garden coupled with a rebuilt Penn Station,'' said Amanda M. Burden, the city's planning commissioner. 
The vote was the latest chapter in a continuing campaign that has been waged on and off for the last 50 years, ever since the original Penn Station was torn down. The destruction of that elegant station prompted a landmarks preservation movement that has saved numerous historical treasures in the city and across the nation.
But efforts to improve Penn Station have been repeatedly stymied.
In the early 1990s, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan campaigned for a revitalized station, and by 1997, there was substantial movement in that direction, only to see political will collapse when Gov. Eliot Spitzer was forced from office.
Given the varied and powerful interests involved, it is not surprising that the fate of Penn Station remains a charged political issue. Even now, the candidates competing to succeed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have said little about where they stand on the subject, including the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, a mayoral hopeful whose district includes Penn Station.
The Council has two months to decide if it will vote on the commission's ruling; if it chooses not to take action, the ruling will stand.
The Dolan family, which operates the Garden, made its displeasure regarding the commission's decision clear in a statement.
''We hoped and expected that City Planning, which currently issues virtually all special permits without term limits, would base its decision on the merits of the permit application,'' the statement read. ''Instead, the Garden -- a key driver of the city's economy that supports thousands of jobs -- is effectively being held hostage by a decision by public officials 50 years ago to demolish the original Penn Station.''
For many New York sports fans, Madison Square Garden is the center of the universe, where dreams of glory can be alternately fulfilled or dashed before the final buzzer sounds.
For many New York commuters, Penn Station, with its bleak warren of crowded corridors, is a daily affront to their dignity.
''The unresolved relationship between these two major uses represents one of the most critical planning problems of the city and the region,'' Ms. Burden said before the vote.
The vote was not a clear victory for those who want to see a new Penn Station.
Ms. Burden, noting that the commission could not force the Garden to relocate or assure the development of a new transportation center, said its owners could meet certain criteria that would allow the permit to be extended beyond 15 years. They could, for example, improve the station to make it more visible and accessible.
The commission, however, did not specifically delineate its requirements. Proponents for a new station said they found this provision troubling.
''This would essentially allow four people in a room to decide for themselves what is best for commuters, the future of the area and the vitality of the city -- requiring only a rubber-stamp approval from planners without further public review or City Council oversight,'' Robert D. Yaro, the president of Regional Plan Association and co-founder of the Alliance for a New Penn Station, said in a statement.
The group urged the Council to go further than the commission and get rid of the provision, so as not to ''permanently condemn the city to a dismal Penn Station.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Madison Square Garden's operating permit was extended by the City Planning Commission, but with conditions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); EVICTION (72%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); TERM LIMITS (67%); SPORTS FANS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



783 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Envoy Agrees to Dialogue, China Says, in Possible Sign for Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
BEIJING -- A North Korean envoy visiting China said his country would ''accept the proposal'' by Chinese officials to open up dialogue, the state-run China News Service reported Thursday, a possible signal that the North would agree to talks on its nuclear program.
The comments were reported after the envoy, Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, met Liu Yunshan, who is a member of the Communist Party Standing Committee in China and the politician who heads ideological affairs for the party. Mr. Liu was quoted as repeating a frequent appeal by China for a resumption of talks that would result in the removal of nuclear weapons from the Korean Peninsula ''as soon as possible.'' 
Few diplomats believe that the North is prepared to be involved in so-called six-party talks that aim to strip it of its nuclear weapons. The international six-party talks on the North's nuclear program -- involving the United States, North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan and Russia -- collapsed in 2008 after North Korea walked out. Secretary of State John Kerry has expressed an interest in talks of some nature with North Korea.
China is North Korea's biggest benefactor, but relations have been strained in recent months. Experts say that the North bridles at China's insistence on paying low prices for its iron ore, and that Chinese officials are annoyed by the North's defiance of entreaties to refrain from missile and nuclear tests.
The visit by Vice Marshal Choe, a close aide to the North's leader, Kim Jong-un, was seen by many analysts as a fence-mending mission.
Vice Marshal Choe was quoted by the China News Service as being ''highly'' appreciative of ''China's huge efforts to maintain peace and stability'' on the Korean Peninsula.
There have been no reports so far on whether Vice Marshal Choe has met with senior Chinese officials involved in foreign policy and military affairs.
The publicized meetings have been with senior officials of the Communist Party who are the usual interlocutors with North Korea. On Wednesday, Vice Marshal Choe met with Wang Jiarui, head of the International Department of the Communist Party of China.
The North Korean news agency said Vice Marshal Choe visited an industrial park in Beijing on Thursday. China's basic advice to North Korea has been that it should overhaul its economy following the path of Deng Xiaoping, with special economic zones and some private enterprise.
Although North Korea has sometimes embarked on such reforms, the government has then pulled back, perhaps for fear of losing control in one of the world's most tightly controlled countries.
North Korean experts in China say they detect little change in China's underlying policy of supporting North Korea. But the Chinese leadership would like North Korea to modify its erratic behavior, stop nuclear tests and halt its missile program, they say. How to reach that goal with Mr. Kim has not been resolved, some of the analysts said.
The vice marshal's visit came just days after the announcement that President Xi Jinping of China and President Obama intended to meet in California next month, suggesting that the North was concerned that its recent actions had pushed China and the United States closer.
Wang Junsheng, an analyst at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said the visit of Marshal Choe could be interpreted as a ''kind of apology'' by North Korea for its recent behavior.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (60%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (75%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



784 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: The Corrosive Effect Of Apple's Tax Avoidance

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The shameful thing about Apple Inc.'s ability to structure its business to avoid United States taxes was not that it did it. In fact, as Apple executives tried to point out at the Senate hearing at which their tax strategies were detailed, they could have chosen to pay much less in American taxes than they did.
The shameful thing is that we have a tax system that seems to allow multinational companies to choose what they want to pay.
The fact that this costs the government money is important, but that is not the critical element. Revelations about the ability of the rich and well connected to duck taxes can have a corrosive effect on the attitudes of the rest of us. If others who are better off than you can get away with not paying taxes, why shouldn't you look for a way to cheat on your taxes? 
The news in the Senate report about Apple was not that the company had found ways to shift income to low-tax jurisdictions. Lots of multinational companies do that. The news was that Apple had found a way to move a large part of its income to subsidiaries that claimed to not exist anywhere, at least when it came to paying taxes.
Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, had good reason to call that the holy grail of tax avoidance.
In that way, the Apple hearing filled a similar role to the one played by disclosures about Bain Capital, the private equity firm founded by Mitt Romney, during the last presidential campaign. It had been common knowledge that private equity firms had found ways to have most of the money earned by partners taxed at low capital gains tax rates, through what is known as carried interest. What came out last year was that some had found a way to treat all of their compensation that way.
Senator Levin, and the ranking Republican on the subcommittee, John McCain, tried to make the point, again and again, about how unfair the current system is to domestic companies, which cannot hide profits overseas, and to ordinary taxpayers, whose income is derived from salaries and investments that are automatically reported to the Internal Revenue Service.
''The general American public should not have to make up the balance as corporations avoid paying billions in U.S. taxes,'' Senator McCain said.
But no other Republican senator seemed interested in that analysis. They praised Apple for avoiding taxes, saying that benefited its shareholders. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a physician, suggested it would ''probably be malpractice'' for a chief financial officer not to do everything possible to minimize the corporate tax bill.
If that is the standard, perhaps Senator Paul, instead of apologizing to Apple for the fact that the hearing was being held, should have joined in what he called the ''vilification'' of the company, but for an entirely different reason. As Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, testified, there is a whole range of tactics Apple has chosen not to use.
''Apple does not hold money on a Caribbean Island, does not have a bank account in the Cayman Islands, and does not move any taxable revenue from sales to U.S. customers to other jurisdictions in order to avoid U.S. taxation,'' he said.
I asked Jeffrey M. Kadet, who spent a career with large accounting firms helping companies to minimize their international tax payments -- working in places like China, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Russia -- and now teaches tax law at the University of Washington, to review the subcommittee's report on Apple.
''Apple's basic structure and planning described in the memorandum appears to be appropriate corporate tax planning in today's environment and is consistent with what I review with my students in class,'' he said in an e-mail. ''The company appears to be almost conservative in its approach of not trying to move any portion of profits on sales to U.S. customers into its overseas structure as some other groups have done.''
One such company, as the Senate subcommittee documented last year, is Apple's archrival, Microsoft.
What Apple did was transfer rights to its intellectual property to a subsidiary that was incorporated in Ireland -- and therefore not subject to immediate United States taxation -- but managed in California. Under Irish law, that freed the subsidiary from Irish taxation.
How is that ''almost conservative''? The Irish subsidiary has rights to the company's patents and trademarks in Asia, Africa and Europe, but not in North or South America. Apple kept those rights in its United States operation. It thus appears to pay more United States taxes than it could have.
If you look at taxes as Senator McCain seems to do, one person finding a way around taxes means the rest of us have to pay more. After all, the government must raise enough money to meet its obligations. But that is not the way a lot of Republicans look at it now. They have denounced taxes for so long that some of them seem to view those who manage to legally avoid paying taxes as heroes. Some of them also seem to think that the government they help to run is evil and that depriving it of revenue is therefore a good thing.
In theory, under the current law, American multinationals will pay American taxes on all profits -- less whatever foreign taxes they paid -- when they bring the profits home. That is known as ''deferred'' taxation. But they try to avoid doing that, and hope they can persuade the government to let them pay a minimal tax on such repatriated profits, rather than the full rate.
Mr. Cook, Apple's chief executive, endorsed that idea in his testimony. Asked what the rate should be, he replied, ''To incent a huge number of companies'' to bring back money, the new rate ''would have to be a single-digit number.''
In other words, he took for granted that paying American taxes was voluntary for multinationals.
Everyone seems to agree that corporate income taxes need to be reformed and that a base rate well below the current 35 percent should be part of that. But beyond that, there is widespread disagreement. Multinational corporations have been campaigning for a ''territorial'' tax system, in which the United States would tax only profits generated in this country.
Doing that without finding a way to close down the loopholes that allow companies to move taxes around would simply ratify the current situation, with the difference that companies would no longer face the possibility of paying American taxes when they brought the money home.
And as the hearing made clear, at least to those who studied the documents, closing those loopholes may be impossible under the current system. Companies can have one subsidiary pay any price they want to another subsidiary, so long as it is reasonably close to what an arm's-length negotiation would produce. The I.R.S. is overmatched when it tries to challenge such pricing, particularly because there are often no comparable deals struck by companies that are not affiliates.
It would be nice if the leading developed countries could agree to cooperate in the taxing of multinationals, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is working on a report with ideas for how that could be accomplished. Don't hold your breath.
If that is not going to happen, the United States could simply end the deferral system and put in some kind of minimum tax based on global profits. If an American company paid less than, say, 15 percent, in total taxes, then it would owe the difference to Uncle Sam immediately, whether or not it brought the profits home.
To get anything done, Congress will have to agree that Senator McCain's way of looking at taxes is correct, and accept that giving a tax break to one person or company must mean forcing others to pay more than they otherwise would.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators Carl Levin, left, and John McCain facing Tim Cook. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) (B1)
 Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, second from left, told senators on Tuesday that Apple could have paid even less tax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); TAX PLANNING (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); INCOME TAX (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); TIM COOK (73%); STEVEN JOBS (58%); RAND PAUL (57%); MITT ROMNEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



785 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 7079 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Speech on Drone Policy

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Obama's speech on U.S. drone and counterterror policy, as provided by the White House:
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Good afternoon, everybody. Please be seated.
It is a great honor to return to the National Defense University. Here, at Fort McNair, Americans have served in uniform since 1791 -- standing guard in the earliest days of the Republic, and contemplating the future of warfare here in the 21st century.
For over two centuries, the United States has been bound together by founding documents that defined who we are as Americans, and served as our compass through every type of change. Matters of war and peace are no different. Americans are deeply ambivalent about war, but having fought for our independence, we know a price must be paid for freedom. From the Civil War to our struggle against fascism, on through the long twilight struggle of the Cold War, battlefields have changed and technology has evolved. But our commitment to constitutional principles has weathered every war, and every war has come to an end. 
With the collapse of the Berlin Wall, a new dawn of democracy took hold abroad, and a decade of peace and prosperity arrived here at home. And for a moment, it seemed the 21st century would be a tranquil time. And then, on September 11, 2001, we were shaken out of complacency. Thousands were taken from us, as clouds of fire and metal and ash descended upon a sun-filled morning. This was a different kind of war. No armies came to our shores, and our military was not the principal target. Instead, a group of terrorists came to kill as many civilians as they could.
And so our nation went to war. We have now been at war for well over a decade. I won't review the full history. What is clear is that we quickly drove al Qaeda out of Afghanistan, but then shifted our focus and began a new war in Iraq. And this carried significant consequences for our fight against al Qaeda, our standing in the world, and -- to this day -- our interests in a vital region.
Meanwhile, we strengthened our defenses -- hardening targets, tightening transportation security, giving law enforcement new tools to prevent terror. Most of these changes were sound. Some caused inconvenience. But some, like expanded surveillance, raised difficult questions about the balance that we strike between our interests in security and our values of privacy. And in some cases, I believe we compromised our basic values -- by using torture to interrogate our enemies, and detaining individuals in a way that ran counter to the rule of law.
So after I took office, we stepped up the war against al Qaeda but we also sought to change its course. We relentlessly targeted al Qaeda's leadership. We ended the war in Iraq, and brought nearly 150,000 troops home. We pursued a new strategy in Afghanistan, and increased our training of Afghan forces. We unequivocally banned torture, affirmed our commitment to civilian courts, worked to align our policies with the rule of law, and expanded our consultations with Congress.
Today, Osama bin Laden is dead, and so are most of his top lieutenants. There have been no large-scale attacks on the United States, and our homeland is more secure. Fewer of our troops are in harm's way, and over the next 19 months they will continue to come home. Our alliances are strong, and so is our standing in the world. In sum, we are safer because of our efforts.
Now, make no mistake, our nation is still threatened by terrorists. From Benghazi to Boston, we have been tragically reminded of that truth. But we have to recognize that the threat has shifted and evolved from the one that came to our shores on 9/11. With a decade of experience now to draw from, this is the moment to ask ourselves hard questions -- about the nature of today's threats and how we should confront them.
And these questions matter to every American.
For over the last decade, our nation has spent well over a trillion dollars on war, helping to explode our deficits and constraining our ability to nation-build here at home. Our servicemembers and their families have sacrificed far more on our behalf. Nearly 7,000 Americans have made the ultimate sacrifice. Many more have left a part of themselves on the battlefield, or brought the shadows of battle back home. From our use of drones to the detention of terrorist suspects, the decisions that we are making now will define the type of nation -- and world -- that we leave to our children.
So America is at a crossroads. We must define the nature and scope of this struggle, or else it will define us. We have to be mindful of James Madison's warning that ''No nation could preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare.'' Neither I, nor any President, can promise the total defeat of terror. We will never erase the evil that lies in the hearts of some human beings, nor stamp out every danger to our open society. But what we can do -- what we must do -- is dismantle networks that pose a direct danger to us, and make it less likely for new groups to gain a foothold, all the while maintaining the freedoms and ideals that we defend. And to define that strategy, we have to make decisions based not on fear, but on hard-earned wisdom. That begins with understanding the current threat that we face.
Today, the core of al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan is on the path to defeat. Their remaining operatives spend more time thinking about their own safety than plotting against us. They did not direct the attacks in Benghazi or Boston. They've not carried out a successful attack on our homeland since 9/11.
Instead, what we've seen is the emergence of various al Qaeda affiliates. From Yemen to Iraq, from Somalia to North Africa, the threat today is more diffuse, with Al Qaeda's affiliates in the Arabian Peninsula -- AQAP -- the most active in plotting against our homeland. And while none of AQAP's efforts approach the scale of 9/11, they have continued to plot acts of terror, like the attempt to blow up an airplane on Christmas Day in 2009.
Unrest in the Arab world has also allowed extremists to gain a foothold in countries like Libya and Syria. But here, too, there are differences from 9/11. In some cases, we continue to confront state-sponsored networks like Hezbollah that engage in acts of terror to achieve political goals. Other of these groups are simply collections of local militias or extremists interested in seizing territory. And while we are vigilant for signs that these groups may pose a transnational threat, most are focused on operating in the countries and regions where they are based. And that means we'll face more localized threats like what we saw in Benghazi, or the BP oil facility in Algeria, in which local operatives -- perhaps in loose affiliation with regional networks -- launch periodic attacks against Western diplomats, companies, and other soft targets, or resort to kidnapping and other criminal enterprises to fund their operations.
And finally, we face a real threat from radicalized individuals here in the United States. Whether it's a shooter at a Sikh Temple in Wisconsin, a plane flying into a building in Texas, or the extremists who killed 168 people at the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, America has confronted many forms of violent extremism in our history. Deranged or alienated individuals -- often U.S. citizens or legal residents -- can do enormous damage, particularly when inspired by larger notions of violent jihad. And that pull towards extremism appears to have led to the shooting at Fort Hood and the bombing of the Boston Marathon.
So that's the current threat -- lethal yet less capable al Qaeda affiliates; threats to diplomatic facilities and businesses abroad; homegrown extremists. This is the future of terrorism. We have to take these threats seriously, and do all that we can to confront them. But as we shape our response, we have to recognize that the scale of this threat closely resembles the types of attacks we faced before 9/11.
In the 1980s, we lost Americans to terrorism at our Embassy in Beirut; at our Marine Barracks in Lebanon; on a cruise ship at sea; at a disco in Berlin; and on a Pan Am flight -- Flight 103 -- over Lockerbie. In the 1990s, we lost Americans to terrorism at the World Trade Center; at our military facilities in Saudi Arabia; and at our Embassy in Kenya. These attacks were all brutal; they were all deadly; and we learned that left unchecked, these threats can grow. But if dealt with smartly and proportionally, these threats need not rise to the level that we saw on the eve of 9/11.
Moreover, we have to recognize that these threats don't arise in a vacuum. Most, though not all, of the terrorism we faced is fueled by a common ideology -- a belief by some extremists that Islam is in conflict with the United States and the West, and that violence against Western targets, including civilians, is justified in pursuit of a larger cause. Of course, this ideology is based on a lie, for the United States is not at war with Islam. And this ideology is rejected by the vast majority of Muslims, who are the most frequent victims of terrorist attacks.
Nevertheless, this ideology persists, and in an age when ideas and images can travel the globe in an instant, our response to terrorism can't depend on military or law enforcement alone. We need all elements of national power to win a battle of wills, a battle of ideas. So what I want to discuss here today is the components of such a comprehensive counterterrorism strategy.
First, we must finish the work of defeating al Qaeda and its associated forces.
In Afghanistan, we will complete our transition to Afghan responsibility for that country's security. Our troops will come home. Our combat mission will come to an end. And we will work with the Afghan government to train security forces, and sustain a counterterrorism force, which ensures that al Qaeda can never again establish a safe haven to launch attacks against us or our allies.
Beyond Afghanistan, we must define our effort not as a boundless ''global war on terror,'' but rather as a series of persistent, targeted efforts to dismantle specific networks of violent extremists that threaten America. In many cases, this will involve partnerships with other countries. Already, thousands of Pakistani soldiers have lost their lives fighting extremists. In Yemen, we are supporting security forces that have reclaimed territory from AQAP. In Somalia, we helped a coalition of African nations push al-Shabaab out of its strongholds. In Mali, we're providing military aid to French-led intervention to push back al Qaeda in the Maghreb, and help the people of Mali reclaim their future.
Much of our best counterterrorism cooperation results in the gathering and sharing of intelligence, the arrest and prosecution of terrorists. And that's how a Somali terrorist apprehended off the coast of Yemen is now in a prison in New York. That's how we worked with European allies to disrupt plots from Denmark to Germany to the United Kingdom. That's how intelligence collected with Saudi Arabia helped us stop a cargo plane from being blown up over the Atlantic. These partnerships work.
But despite our strong preference for the detention and prosecution of terrorists, sometimes this approach is foreclosed. Al Qaeda and its affiliates try to gain foothold in some of the most distant and unforgiving places on Earth. They take refuge in remote tribal regions. They hide in caves and walled compounds. They train in empty deserts and rugged mountains.
In some of these places -- such as parts of Somalia and Yemen -- the state only has the most tenuous reach into the territory. In other cases, the state lacks the capacity or will to take action. And it's also not possible for America to simply deploy a team of Special Forces to capture every terrorist. Even when such an approach may be possible, there are places where it would pose profound risks to our troops and local civilians -- where a terrorist compound cannot be breached without triggering a firefight with surrounding tribal communities, for example, that pose no threat to us; times when putting U.S. boots on the ground may trigger a major international crisis.
To put it another way, our operation in Pakistan against Osama bin Laden cannot be the norm. The risks in that case were immense. The likelihood of capture, although that was our preference, was remote given the certainty that our folks would confront resistance. The fact that we did not find ourselves confronted with civilian casualties, or embroiled in an extended firefight, was a testament to the meticulous planning and professionalism of our Special Forces, but it also depended on some luck. And it was supported by massive infrastructure in Afghanistan.
And even then, the cost to our relationship with Pakistan -- and the backlash among the Pakistani public over encroachment on their territory -- was so severe that we are just now beginning to rebuild this important partnership.
So it is in this context that the United States has taken lethal, targeted action against al Qaeda and its associated forces, including with remotely piloted aircraft commonly referred to as drones.
As was true in previous armed conflicts, this new technology raises profound questions -- about who is targeted, and why; about civilian casualties, and the risk of creating new enemies; about the legality of such strikes under U.S. and international law; about accountability and morality. So let me address these questions.
To begin with, our actions are effective. Don't take my word for it. In the intelligence gathered at bin Laden's compound, we found that he wrote, ''We could lose the reserves to enemy's air strikes. We cannot fight air strikes with explosives.'' Other communications from al Qaeda operatives confirm this as well. Dozens of highly skilled al Qaeda commanders, trainers, bomb makers and operatives have been taken off the battlefield. Plots have been disrupted that would have targeted international aviation, U.S. transit systems, European cities and our troops in Afghanistan. Simply put, these strikes have saved lives.
Moreover, America's actions are legal. We were attacked on 9/11. Within a week, Congress overwhelmingly authorized the use of force. Under domestic law, and international law, the United States is at war with al Qaeda, the Taliban, and their associated forces. We are at war with an organization that right now would kill as many Americans as they could if we did not stop them first. So this is a just war -- a war waged proportionally, in last resort, and in self-defense.
And yet, as our fight enters a new phase, America's legitimate claim of self-defense cannot be the end of the discussion. To say a military tactic is legal, or even effective, is not to say it is wise or moral in every instance. For the same human progress that gives us the technology to strike half a world away also demands the discipline to constrain that power -- or risk abusing it. And that's why, over the last four years, my administration has worked vigorously to establish a framework that governs our use of force against terrorists --- insisting upon clear guidelines, oversight and accountability that is now codified in Presidential Policy Guidance that I signed yesterday.
In the Afghan war theater, we must -- and will -- continue to support our troops until the transition is complete at the end of 2014. And that means we will continue to take strikes against high value al Qaeda targets, but also against forces that are massing to support attacks on coalition forces. But by the end of 2014, we will no longer have the same need for force protection, and the progress we've made against core al Qaeda will reduce the need for unmanned strikes.
Beyond the Afghan theater, we only target al Qaeda and its associated forces. And even then, the use of drones is heavily constrained. America does not take strikes when we have the ability to capture individual terrorists; our preference is always to detain, interrogate, and prosecute. America cannot take strikes wherever we choose; our actions are bound by consultations with partners, and respect for state sovereignty.
America does not take strikes to punish individuals; we act against terrorists who pose a continuing and imminent threat to the American people, and when there are no other governments capable of effectively addressing the threat. And before any strike is taken, there must be near-certainty that no civilians will be killed or injured -- the highest standard we can set.
Now, this last point is critical, because much of the criticism about drone strikes -- both here at home and abroad -- understandably centers on reports of civilian casualties. There's a wide gap between U.S. assessments of such casualties and nongovernmental reports. Nevertheless, it is a hard fact that U.S. strikes have resulted in civilian casualties, a risk that exists in every war. And for the families of those civilians, no words or legal construct can justify their loss. For me, and those in my chain of command, those deaths will haunt us as long as we live, just as we are haunted by the civilian casualties that have occurred throughout conventional fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq.
But as Commander-in-Chief, I must weigh these heartbreaking tragedies against the alternatives. To do nothing in the face of terrorist networks would invite far more civilian casualties -- not just in our cities at home and our facilities abroad, but also in the very places like Sana'a and Kabul and Mogadishu where terrorists seek a foothold. Remember that the terrorists we are after target civilians, and the death toll from their acts of terrorism against Muslims dwarfs any estimate of civilian casualties from drone strikes. So doing nothing is not an option.
Where foreign governments cannot or will not effectively stop terrorism in their territory, the primary alternative to targeted lethal action would be the use of conventional military options. As I've already said, even small special operations carry enormous risks. Conventional airpower or missiles are far less precise than drones, and are likely to cause more civilian casualties and more local outrage. And invasions of these territories lead us to be viewed as occupying armies, unleash a torrent of unintended consequences, are difficult to contain, result in large numbers of civilian casualties and ultimately empower those who thrive on violent conflict.
So it is false to assert that putting boots on the ground is less likely to result in civilian deaths or less likely to create enemies in the Muslim world. The results would be more U.S. deaths, more Black Hawks down, more confrontations with local populations, and an inevitable mission creep in support of such raids that could easily escalate into new wars.
Yes, the conflict with al Qaeda, like all armed conflict, invites tragedy. But by narrowly targeting our action against those who want to kill us and not the people they hide among, we are choosing the course of action least likely to result in the loss of innocent life.
Our efforts must be measured against the history of putting American troops in distant lands among hostile populations. In Vietnam, hundreds of thousands of civilians died in a war where the boundaries of battle were blurred. In Iraq and Afghanistan, despite the extraordinary courage and discipline of our troops, thousands of civilians have been killed. So neither conventional military action nor waiting for attacks to occur offers moral safe harbor, and neither does a sole reliance on law enforcement in territories that have no functioning police or security services -- and indeed, have no functioning law.
Now, this is not to say that the risks are not real. Any U.S. military action in foreign lands risks creating more enemies and impacts public opinion overseas. Moreover, our laws constrain the power of the President even during wartime, and I have taken an oath to defend the Constitution of the United States. The very precision of drone strikes and the necessary secrecy often involved in such actions can end up shielding our government from the public scrutiny that a troop deployment invites. It can also lead a President and his team to view drone strikes as a cure-all for terrorism.
And for this reason, I've insisted on strong oversight of all lethal action. After I took office, my administration began briefing all strikes outside of Iraq and Afghanistan to the appropriate committees of Congress. Let me repeat that: Not only did Congress authorize the use of force, it is briefed on every strike that America takes. Every strike. That includes the one instance when we targeted an American citizen -- Anwar Awlaki, the chief of external operations for AQAP.
This week, I authorized the declassification of this action, and the deaths of three other Americans in drone strikes, to facilitate transparency and debate on this issue and to dismiss some of the more outlandish claims that have been made. For the record, I do not believe it would be constitutional for the government to target and kill any U.S. citizen -- with a drone, or with a shotgun -- without due process, nor should any President deploy armed drones over U.S. soil.
But when a U.S. citizen goes abroad to wage war against America and is actively plotting to kill U.S. citizens, and when neither the United States, nor our partners are in a position to capture him before he carries out a plot, his citizenship should no more serve as a shield than a sniper shooting down on an innocent crowd should be protected from a SWAT team.
That's who Anwar Awlaki was -- he was continuously trying to kill people. He helped oversee the 2010 plot to detonate explosive devices on two U.S.-bound cargo planes. He was involved in planning to blow up an airliner in 2009. When Farouk Abdulmutallab -- the Christmas Day bomber -- went to Yemen in 2009, Awlaki hosted him, approved his suicide operation, helped him tape a martyrdom video to be shown after the attack, and his last instructions were to blow up the airplane when it was over American soil. I would have detained and prosecuted Awlaki if we captured him before he carried out a plot, but we couldn't. And as President, I would have been derelict in my duty had I not authorized the strike that took him out.
Of course, the targeting of any American raises constitutional issues that are not present in other strikes -- which is why my administration submitted information about Awlaki to the Department of Justice months before Awlaki was killed, and briefed the Congress before this strike as well. But the high threshold that we've set for taking lethal action applies to all potential terrorist targets, regardless of whether or not they are American citizens. This threshold respects the inherent dignity of every human life. Alongside the decision to put our men and women in uniform in harm's way, the decision to use force against individuals or groups -- even against a sworn enemy of the United States -- is the hardest thing I do as President. But these decisions must be made, given my responsibility to protect the American people.
Going forward, I've asked my administration to review proposals to extend oversight of lethal actions outside of warzones that go beyond our reporting to Congress. Each option has virtues in theory, but poses difficulties in practice. For example, the establishment of a special court to evaluate and authorize lethal action has the benefit of bringing a third branch of government into the process, but raises serious constitutional issues about presidential and judicial authority. Another idea that's been suggested -- the establishment of an independent oversight board in the executive branch -- avoids those problems, but may introduce a layer of bureaucracy into national security decision-making, without inspiring additional public confidence in the process. But despite these challenges, I look forward to actively engaging Congress to explore these and other options for increased oversight.
I believe, however, that the use of force must be seen as part of a larger discussion we need to have about a comprehensive counterterrorism strategy -- because for all the focus on the use of force, force alone cannot make us safe. We cannot use force everywhere that a radical ideology takes root; and in the absence of a strategy that reduces the wellspring of extremism, a perpetual war -- through drones or Special Forces or troop deployments -- will prove self-defeating, and alter our country in troubling ways.
So the next element of our strategy involves addressing the underlying grievances and conflicts that feed extremism -- from North Africa to South Asia. As we've learned this past decade, this is a vast and complex undertaking. We must be humble in our expectation that we can quickly resolve deep-rooted problems like poverty and sectarian hatred. Moreover, no two countries are alike, and some will undergo chaotic change before things get better. But our security and our values demand that we make the effort.
This means patiently supporting transitions to democracy in places like Egypt and Tunisia and Libya -- because the peaceful realization of individual aspirations will serve as a rebuke to violent extremists. We must strengthen the opposition in Syria, while isolating extremist elements -- because the end of a tyrant must not give way to the tyranny of terrorism. We are actively working to promote peace between Israelis and Palestinians -- because it is right and because such a peace could help reshape attitudes in the region. And we must help countries modernize economies, upgrade education, and encourage entrepreneurship -- because American leadership has always been elevated by our ability to connect with people's hopes, and not simply their fears.
And success on all these fronts requires sustained engagement, but it will also require resources. I know that foreign aid is one of the least popular expenditures that there is. That's true for Democrats and Republicans -- I've seen the polling -- even though it amounts to less than one percent of the federal budget. In fact, a lot of folks think it's 25 percent, if you ask people on the streets. Less than one percent -- still wildly unpopular. But foreign assistance cannot be viewed as charity. It is fundamental to our national security. And it's fundamental to any sensible long-term strategy to battle extremism.
Moreover, foreign assistance is a tiny fraction of what we spend fighting wars that our assistance might ultimately prevent. For what we spent in a month in Iraq at the height of the war, we could be training security forces in Libya, maintaining peace agreements between Israel and its neighbors, feeding the hungry in Yemen, building schools in Pakistan, and creating reservoirs of goodwill that marginalize extremists. That has to be part of our strategy.
Moreover, America cannot carry out this work if we don't have diplomats serving in some very dangerous places. Over the past decade, we have strengthened security at our embassies, and I am implementing every recommendation of the Accountability Review Board, which found unacceptable failures in Benghazi. I've called on Congress to fully fund these efforts to bolster security and harden facilities, improve intelligence, and facilitate a quicker response time from our military if a crisis emerges.
But even after we take these steps, some irreducible risks to our diplomats will remain. This is the price of being the world's most powerful nation, particularly as a wave of change washes over the Arab World. And in balancing the trade4offs between security and active diplomacy, I firmly believe that any retreat from challenging regions will only increase the dangers that we face in the long run. And that's why we should be grateful to those diplomats who are willing to serve.
Targeted action against terrorists, effective partnerships, diplomatic engagement and assistance -- through such a comprehensive strategy we can significantly reduce the chances of large-scale attacks on the homeland and mitigate threats to Americans overseas. But as we guard against dangers from abroad, we cannot neglect the daunting challenge of terrorism from within our borders.
As I said earlier, this threat is not new. But technology and the Internet increase its frequency and in some cases its lethality. Today, a person can consume hateful propaganda, commit themselves to a violent agenda, and learn how to kill without leaving their home. To address this threat, two years ago my administration did a comprehensive review and engaged with law enforcement.
And the best way to prevent violent extremism inspired by violent jihadists is to work with the Muslim American community -- which has consistently rejected terrorism -- to identify signs of radicalization and partner with law enforcement when an individual is drifting towards violence. And these partnerships can only work when we recognize that Muslims are a fundamental part of the American family. In fact, the success of American Muslims and our determination to guard against any encroachments on their civil liberties is the ultimate rebuke to those who say that we're at war with Islam.
Thwarting homegrown plots presents particular challenges in part because of our proud commitment to civil liberties for all who call America home. That's why, in the years to come, we will have to keep working hard to strike the appropriate balance between our need for security and preserving those freedoms that make us who we are. That means reviewing the authorities of law enforcement, so we can intercept new types of communication, but also build in privacy protections to prevent abuse.
That means that -- even after Boston -- we do not deport someone or throw somebody in prison in the absence of evidence. That means putting careful constraints on the tools the government uses to protect sensitive information, such as the state secrets doctrine. And that means finally having a strong Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to review those issues where our counterterrorism efforts and our values may come into tension.
The Justice Department's investigation of national security leaks offers a recent example of the challenges involved in striking the right balance between our security and our open society. As Commander-in-Chief, I believe we must keep information secret that protects our operations and our people in the field. To do so, we must enforce consequences for those who break the law and breach their commitment to protect classified information. But a free press is also essential for our democracy. That's who we are. And I'm troubled by the possibility that leak investigations may chill the investigative journalism that holds government accountable.
Journalists should not be at legal risk for doing their jobs. Our focus must be on those who break the law. And that's why I've called on Congress to pass a media shield law to guard against government overreach. And I've raised these issues with the Attorney General, who shares my concerns. So he has agreed to review existing Department of Justice guidelines governing investigations that involve reporters, and he'll convene a group of media organizations to hear their concerns as part of that review. And I've directed the Attorney General to report back to me by July 12th.
Now, all these issues remind us that the choices we make about war can impact -- in sometimes unintended ways -- the openness and freedom on which our way of life depends. And that is why I intend to engage Congress about the existing Authorization to Use Military Force, or AUMF, to determine how we can continue to fight terrorism without keeping America on a perpetual wartime footing.
The AUMF is now nearly 12 years old. The Afghan war is coming to an end. Core al Qaeda is a shell of its former self. Groups like AQAP must be dealt with, but in the years to come, not every collection of thugs that labels themselves al Qaeda will pose a credible threat to the United States. Unless we discipline our thinking, our definitions, our actions, we may be drawn into more wars we don't need to fight, or continue to grant Presidents unbound powers more suited for traditional armed conflicts between nation states.
So I look forward to engaging Congress and the American people in efforts to refine, and ultimately repeal, the AUMF's mandate. And I will not sign laws designed to expand this mandate further. Our systematic effort to dismantle terrorist organizations must continue. But this war, like all wars, must end. That's what history advises. That's what our democracy demands.
And that brings me to my final topic: the detention of terrorist suspects. I'm going to repeat one more time: As a matter of policy, the preference of the United States is to capture terrorist suspects. When we do detain a suspect, we interrogate them. And if the suspect can be prosecuted, we decide whether to try him in a civilian court or a military commission.
During the past decade, the vast majority of those detained by our military were captured on the battlefield. In Iraq, we turned over thousands of prisoners as we ended the war. In Afghanistan, we have transitioned detention facilities to the Afghans, as part of the process of restoring Afghan sovereignty. So we bring law of war detention to an end, and we are committed to prosecuting terrorists wherever we can.
The glaring exception to this time-tested approach is the detention center at Guantanamo Bay. The original premise for opening GTMO -- that detainees would not be able to challenge their detention -- was found unconstitutional five years ago. In the meantime, GTMO has become a symbol around the world for an America that flouts the rule of law. Our allies won't cooperate with us if they think a terrorist will end up at GTMO.
During a time of budget cuts, we spend $150 million each year to imprison 166 people -- almost $1 million per prisoner. And the Department of Defense estimates that we must spend another $200 million to keep GTMO open at a time when we're cutting investments in education and research here at home, and when the Pentagon is struggling with sequester and budget cuts.
As President, I have tried to close GTMO. I transferred 67 detainees to other countries before Congress imposed restrictions to effectively prevent us from either transferring detainees to other countries or imprisoning them here in the United States.
These restrictions make no sense. After all, under President Bush, some 530 detainees were transferred from GTMO with Congress's support. When I ran for President the first time, John McCain supported closing GTMO -- this was a bipartisan issue. No person has ever escaped one of our super-max or military prisons here in the United States -- ever. Our courts have convicted hundreds of people for terrorism or terrorism-related offenses, including some folks who are more dangerous than most GTMO detainees. They're in our prisons.
And given my administration's relentless pursuit of al Qaeda's leadership, there is no justification beyond politics for Congress to prevent us from closing a facility that should have never have been opened. (Applause.)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Excuse me, President Obama --
MR. OBAMA: So -- let me finish, ma'am. So today, once again --
AUDIENCE MEMBER: There are 102 people on a hunger strike. These are desperate people.
MR. OBAMA: I'm about to address it, ma'am, but you've got to let me speak. I'm about to address it.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You're our Commander-In-Chief --
MR. OBAMA: Let me address it.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: -- you an close Guantanamo Bay.
MR. OBAMA: Why don't you let me address it, ma'am.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: There's still prisoners --
MR. OBAMA: Why don't you sit down and I will tell you exactly what I'm going to do.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That includes 57 Yemenis.
MR. OBAMA: Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. (Applause.) Ma'am, thank you. You should let me finish my sentence.
Today, I once again call on Congress to lift the restrictions on detainee transfers from GTMO. (Applause.)
I have asked the Department of Defense to designate a site in the United States where we can hold military commissions. I'm appointing a new senior envoy at the State Department and Defense Department whose sole responsibility will be to achieve the transfer of detainees to third countries.
I am lifting the moratorium on detainee transfers to Yemen so we can review them on a case-by-case basis. To the greatest extent possible, we will transfer detainees who have been cleared to go to other countries.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: -- prisoners already. Release them today.
MR. OBAMA: Where appropriate, we will bring terrorists to justice in our courts and our military justice system. And we will insist that judicial review be available for every detainee.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It needs to be --
THE PRESIDENT: Now, ma'am, let me finish. Let me finish, ma'am. Part of free speech is you being able to speak, but also, you listening and me being able to speak. (Applause.)
Now, even after we take these steps one issue will remain -- just how to deal with those GTMO detainees who we know have participated in dangerous plots or attacks but who cannot be prosecuted, for example, because the evidence against them has been compromised or is inadmissible in a court of law. But once we commit to a process of closing GTMO, I am confident that this legacy problem can be resolved, consistent with our commitment to the rule of law.
I know the politics are hard. But history will cast a harsh judgment on this aspect of our fight against terrorism and those of us who fail to end it. Imagine a future -- 10 years from now or 20 years from now -- when the United States of America is still holding people who have been charged with no crime on a piece of land that is not part of our country. Look at the current situation, where we are force-feeding detainees who are being held on a hunger strike. I'm willing to cut the young lady who interrupted me some slack because it's worth being passionate about. Is this who we are? Is that something our Founders foresaw? Is that the America we want to leave our children? Our sense of justice is stronger than that.
We have prosecuted scores of terrorists in our courts. That includes Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who tried to blow up an airplane over Detroit; and Faisal Shahzad, who put a car bomb in Times Square. It's in a court of law that we will try Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who is accused of bombing the Boston Marathon. Richard Reid, the shoe bomber, is, as we speak, serving a life sentence in a maximum security prison here in the United States. In sentencing Reid, Judge William Young told him, ''The way we treat you...is the measure of our own liberties.''
AUDIENCE MEMBER: How about Abdulmutallab -- locking up a 16-year-old -- is that the way we treat a 16-year old? (Inaudible) -- can you take the drones out of the hands of the CIA? Can you stop the signature strikes killing people on the basis of suspicious activities?
MR. OBAMA: We're addressing that, ma'am.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: -- thousands of Muslims that got killed -- will you compensate the innocent families -- that will make us safer here at home. I love my country. I love (inaudible) --
MR. OBAMA: I think that -- and I'm going off script, as you might expect here. (Laughter and applause.) The voice of that woman is worth paying attention to. (Applause.) Obviously, I do not agree with much of what she said, and obviously she wasn't listening to me in much of what I said. But these are tough issues, and the suggestion that we can gloss over them is wrong.
When that judge sentenced Mr. Reid, the shoe bomber, he went on to point to the American flag that flew in the courtroom. ''That flag,'' he said, ''will fly there long after this is all forgotten. That flag still stands for freedom.''
So, America, we've faced down dangers far greater than al Qaeda. By staying true to the values of our founding, and by using our constitutional compass, we have overcome slavery and Civil War and fascism and communism. In just these last few years as President, I've watched the American people bounce back from painful recession, mass shootings, natural disasters like the recent tornados that devastated Oklahoma. These events were heartbreaking; they shook our communities to the core. But because of the resilience of the American people, these events could not come close to breaking us.
I think of Lauren Manning, the 9/11 survivor who had severe burns over 80 percent of her body, who said, ''That's my reality. I put a Band-Aid on it, literally, and I move on.''
I think of the New Yorkers who filled Times Square the day after an attempted car bomb as if nothing had happened.
I think of the proud Pakistani parents who, after their daughter was invited to the White House, wrote to us, ''We have raised an American Muslim daughter to dream big and never give up because it does pay off.''
I think of all the wounded warriors rebuilding their lives, and helping other vets to find jobs.
I think of the runner planning to do the 2014 Boston Marathon, who said, ''Next year, you're going to have more people than ever. Determination is not something to be messed with.''
That's who the American people are -- determined, and not to be messed with. And now we need a strategy and a politics that reflects this resilient spirit.
Our victory against terrorism won't be measured in a surrender ceremony at a battleship, or a statue being pulled to the ground. Victory will be measured in parents taking their kids to school; immigrants coming to our shores; fans taking in a ballgame; a veteran starting a business; a bustling city street; a citizen shouting her concerns at a President.
The quiet determination; that strength of character and bond of fellowship; that refutation of fear -- that is both our sword and our shield. And long after the current messengers of hate have faded from the world's memory, alongside the brutal despots, and deranged madmen, and ruthless demagogues who litter history -- the flag of the United States will still wave from small-town cemeteries to national monuments, to distant outposts abroad. And that flag will still stand for freedom.
Thank you very, everybody. God bless you. May God bless the United States of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); ARMIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



786 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Reviving Debate On Nation's Security, Obama Seeks To Narrow Terror Fight

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Eric Schmitt and Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Nearly a dozen years after the hijackings that transformed America, President Obama said Thursday that it was time to narrow the scope of the grinding battle against terrorists and begin the transition to a day when the country will no longer be on a war footing.
Declaring that ''America is at a crossroads,'' the president called for redefining what has been a global war into a more targeted assault on terrorist groups threatening the United States. As part of a realignment of counterterrorism policy, he said he would curtail the use of drones, recommit to closing the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and seek new limits on his own war power.
In a much-anticipated speech at the National Defense University, Mr. Obama sought to turn the page on the era that began on Sept. 11, 2001, when the imperative of preventing terrorist attacks became both the priority and the preoccupation. Instead, the president suggested that the United States had returned to the state of affairs that existed before Al Qaeda toppled the World Trade Center, when terrorism was a persistent but not existential danger. With Al Qaeda's core now ''on the path to defeat,'' he argued, the nation must adapt. 
''Our systematic effort to dismantle terrorist organizations must continue,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But this war, like all wars, must end. That's what history advises. It's what our democracy demands.''
The president's speech reignited a debate over how to respond to the threat of terrorism that has polarized the capital for years. Republicans contended that Mr. Obama was declaring victory prematurely and underestimating an enduring danger, while liberals complained that he had not gone far enough in ending what they see as the excesses of the Bush era.
The precise ramifications of his shift were less clear than the lines of argument, however, because the new policy guidance he signed remains classified, and other changes he embraced require Congressional approval. Mr. Obama, for instance, did not directly mention in his speech that his new order would shift responsibility for drones more toward the military and away from the Central Intelligence Agency.
But the combination of his words and deeds foreshadowed the course he hopes to take in the remaining three and a half years of his presidency so that he leaves his successor a profoundly different national security landscape than the one he inherited in 2009. While President George W. Bush saw the fight against terrorism as the defining mission of his presidency, Mr. Obama has always viewed it as one priority among many at a time of wrenching economic and domestic challenges.
''Beyond Afghanistan, we must define our effort not as a boundless 'global war on terror,' '' he said, using Mr. Bush's term, ''but rather as a series of persistent, targeted efforts to dismantle specific networks of violent extremists that threaten America.''
''Neither I, nor any president, can promise the total defeat of terror,'' he added. ''We will never erase the evil that lies in the hearts of some human beings, nor stamp out every danger to our open society. But what we can do -- what we must do -- is dismantle networks that pose a direct danger to us, and make it less likely for new groups to gain a foothold, all the while maintaining the freedoms and ideals that we defend.''
Some Republicans expressed alarm about Mr. Obama's shift, saying it was a mistake to go back to the days when terrorism was seen as a manageable law enforcement problem rather than a dire threat.
''The president's speech today will be viewed by terrorists as a victory,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee. ''Rather than continuing successful counterterrorism activities, we are changing course with no clear operational benefit.''
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said he still agreed with Mr. Obama about closing the Guantánamo prison, but he called the president's assertion that Al Qaeda was on the run ''a degree of unreality that to me is really incredible.'' Mr. McCain said the president had been too passive in the Arab world, particularly in Syria's civil war. ''American leadership is absent in the Middle East,'' he said.
The liberal discontent with Mr. Obama was on display even before his speech ended. Medea Benjamin, a co-founder of the antiwar group Code Pink, who was in the audience, shouted at the president to release prisoners from Guantánamo, halt C.I.A. drone strikes and apologize to Muslims for killing so many of them.
''Abide by the rule of law!'' she yelled as security personnel removed her from the auditorium. ''You're a constitutional lawyer!''
Col. Morris D. Davis, a former chief prosecutor at Guantánamo who has become a leading critic of the prison, waited until after the speech to express disappointment that Mr. Obama was not more proactive. ''It's great rhetoric,'' he said. ''But now is the reality going to live up to the rhetoric?''
Still, some counterterrorism experts saw it as the natural evolution of the conflict after more than a decade. ''This is both a promise to an end to the war on terror, while being a further declaration of war, constrained and proportional in its scope,'' said Juan Carlos Zarate, a counterterrorism adviser to Mr. Bush.
The new classified policy guidance imposes tougher standards for when drone strikes can be authorized, limiting them to targets who pose ''a continuing, imminent threat to Americans'' and cannot feasibly be captured, according to government officials. The guidance also begins a process of phasing the C.I.A. out of the drone war and shifting operations to the Pentagon.
The guidance expresses the principle that the military should be in the lead and responsible for taking direct action even outside traditional war zones like Afghanistan, officials said. But Pakistan, where the C.I.A. has waged a robust campaign of air assaults on terrorism suspects in the tribal areas, will be grandfathered in for a transition period and remain under C.I.A. control.
That exception will be reviewed every six months as the government decides whether Al Qaeda has been neutralized enough in Pakistan and whether troops in Afghanistan can be protected. Officials said they anticipated that the eventual transfer of the C.I.A. drone program in Pakistan to the military would probably coincide with the withdrawal of combat units from Afghanistan at the end of 2014.
Even as he envisions scaling back the targeted killing, Mr. Obama embraced ideas to limit his own authority. He expressed openness to the idea of a secret court to oversee drone strikes, much like the intelligence court that authorizes secret wiretaps, or instead perhaps some sort of independent body within the executive branch. He did not outline a specific proposal, leaving it to Congress to consider something along those lines.
He also called on Congress to ''refine and ultimately repeal'' the authorization of force it passed in the aftermath of Sept. 11. Aides said he wanted it limited more clearly to combating Al Qaeda and affiliated groups so it could not be used to justify action against other terrorist or extremist organizations.
In renewing his vow to close the Guantánamo prison, Mr. Obama highlighted one of his most prominent unkept promises from the 2008 presidential campaign. He came into office vowing to shutter the prison, which has become a symbol around the world of American excesses, within a year, but Congress moved to block him, and then he largely dropped the effort.
With 166 detainees still at the prison, Mr. Obama said he would reduce the population even without action by Congress. About half of the detainees have been cleared for return to their home countries, mostly Yemen. Mr. Obama said he was lifting a moratorium he imposed on sending detainees to Yemen, where a new president has inspired more faith in the White House that he would not allow recidivism.
The policy changes have been in the works for months as Mr. Obama has sought to reorient his national security strategy. The speech was his most comprehensive public discussion of counterterrorism since he took office, and at times he was almost ruminative, articulating both sides of the argument and weighing trade-offs out loud in a way presidents rarely do.
He said that the United States remained in danger from terrorists, as the attacks in Boston and Benghazi, Libya, have demonstrated, but that the nature of the threat ''has shifted and evolved.'' He noted that terrorists, including some radicalized at home, had carried out attacks, but less ambitious than the ones on Sept. 11.
''We have to take these threats seriously and do all that we can to confront them,'' he said. ''But as we shape our response, we have to recognize that the scale of this threat closely resembles the types of attacks we faced before 9/11.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''This war, like all wars, must end,'' President Obama said at the National Defense University. ''That's what history advises.'' (A1)
President Obama paused as an activist interrupted his speech with shouted demands. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MQ-9 Reaper (A10) GRAPHICS: A History of Drone Warfare: A controversial weapon in the war on terror. (Sources: U.S. Air Force
Long War Journal
 press reports) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HIJACKING (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); LIBERALISM (70%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); APPROVALS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (83%); US AIR FORCE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



787 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Corporate Tax Dodge

BYLINE: By STEVEN RATTNER. 
Steven Rattner, a contributing opinion writer, is a longtime Wall Street executive and a former counselor to the Treasury secretary.

 BODY:
WHILE a Senate report detailing Apple's aggressive tax sheltering of billions of dollars of overseas income grabbed headlines this week, little notice was paid to a surreptitious thrust at tax minimization that was announced at nearly the same moment.
In a news release, the American drug maker Actavis announced that it would spend $5 billion to acquire Warner Chilcott, an Irish pharmaceuticals company less than half its size. 
Buried in the fifth paragraph of the release was the curious tidbit that the new company would be incorporated in Ireland, even though the far larger acquirer was based in Parsippany, N.J.
The reason? By escaping American shores, Actavis expects to reduce its effective tax rate from about 28 percent to 17 percent, a potential savings of tens of millions of dollars per year for the company and a still larger hit to the United States Treasury.Actavis is hardly alone in fleeing to lower-tax countries. For example, Eaton Corporation, a diversified power management company based for nearly a century in Cleveland, also became an ''Irish company'' when it acquired Cooper Industries last year.
Here's the point: As muddled and broken as the individual income tax system may be, the rules under which the government collects corporate levies are far more loophole-ridden and counterproductive.
That's not entirely Washington's fault. Unlike individuals, multinational corporations can shuttle profits -- and sometimes even their headquarters -- around the globe in search of the jurisdiction willing to cut them the best deal on taxes (and often other economic incentives).
Much of this occurs under the guise of ''transfer pricing,'' the terms under which one subsidiary of a multinational sells products to another subsidiary. The goal is to generate as high a share of profit as possible in the lowest-taxed jurisdictions.
A study by the Congressional Research Service found that subsidiaries of United States corporations operating in the top five tax havens (the Netherlands, Ireland, Bermuda, Switzerland and Luxembourg) generated 43 percent of their foreign profits in those countries in 2008, but had only 4 percent of their foreign employees and 7 percent of their foreign investment located there.
All in all, it is a race to the bottom on the part of revenue-starved governments eager to attract even a relatively small number of new jobs.
As a consequence, the effective corporate tax rate in the United States fell to 17.8 percent in 2012 from 42.5 percent in 1960, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. (The share of federal revenues arriving at the Treasury from companies has fallen even more sharply, in part because an increasing number of businesses are taxed as individuals rather than as corporations.)
That's just not fair at a time of soaring corporate profits and stagnant family incomes.
Business groups, naturally, say the best way to bring jobs and cash home is for Washington to stop taxing profits earned overseas by American companies altogether. But that idea makes little sense. While changing to this ''territorial system'' would allow some of the estimated $1.7 trillion of cash ''trapped'' overseas to come home free of tax, it would both cost the Treasury an estimated $130 billion in revenue over the next 10 years and provide greater incentives for American companies to continue to move jobs and production overseas.
Happily, the gaming of the tax system is becoming a global concern, with an action plan coming from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in July. The O.E.C.D. should work toward taxing business profits where they actually occur, not where they've been shifted by some tax adviser.
As we strive for a global solution, we should take a number of interim steps, including better policing of transfer pricing.
In addition, President Obama has made constructive proposals to reduce the incentive to move jobs overseas by imposing a minimum tax on foreign earnings and delaying certain tax deductions related to overseas investment.
Perhaps most provocatively, we should consider taxing a greater share of the profits made by companies not at the corporate level, where they are subject to oh-so-much gaming, but rather at the shareholder level.
As corporate taxes have declined, corporate profits have increased. That has pushed up stock prices and been a boon to shareholders. It hardly seems unfair to ask those who already benefit from bargain tax rates on capital gains and dividends to share some of those gains with the government.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); INCOME TAX (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); RANKINGS (62%)

COMPANY: ACTAVIS INC (91%); APPLE INC (91%); EATON CORP PLC (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (61%); WARNER CHILCOTT PLC (57%)

TICKER: ACT (NYSE) (91%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%); ETN (NYSE) (83%); WCRX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (83%); SIC3594 FLUID POWER PUMPS & MOTORS (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



788 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Changes Continue as Obama Names 2 Senate Aides for Posts

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
President Obama continued his shake-up of the Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday, naming two Senate aides to senior posts at the Wall Street regulatory agency.
The nominees to the five-member agency are Kara M. Stein, a Democrat, and Michael Piwowar, a Republican. If confirmed by the Senate, they will succeed commissioners whose terms are set to expire. 
The move comes just months after Mr. Obama named Mary Jo White, a former federal prosecutor turned Wall Street defense lawyer, to be chairwoman of the agency. In recent weeks, Ms. White has started to overhaul the staff, naming co-heads of the agency's enforcement unit, new leaders of other major divisions and her own chief of staff. She also hired a general counsel, Anne K. Small, who rejoined the S.E.C. from the White House.
The transition period has coincided with challenges for the agency, which has fallen far behind its rule-making responsibilities. Nearly three years after Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act, the overhaul of Wall Street regulation, the S.E.C. has carried out only a small fraction of the changes.
The possible arrival of Ms. Stein and Mr. Piwowar could add to some delays as they settle into the agency. Yet the nominees are hardly strangers to the S.E.C.'s business.
Ms. Stein is an aide to Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who is a senior member of the Senate Banking Committee, which oversees the S.E.C. Mr. Piwowar is the committee's Republican chief economist.
In a statement late Thursday, the committee chairman, Tim Johnson, expressed support for both nominees. ''I look forward to moving both their nominations forward to ensure the commission continues to operate at full strength,'' said Mr. Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LAWYERS (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARY JO WHITE (88%); JACK REED (58%); TIM JOHNSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



789 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Opposition Discusses Its Approach To Syria Talks

BYLINE: By SEBNEM ARSU and HANIA MOURTADA; Sebnem Arsu reported from Istanbul, and Hania Mourtada from Beirut, Lebanon.

 BODY:
ISTANBUL -- Members of Syria's main political opposition group on Thursday began three days of talks to elect a new leader and formulate their positions before an expected international conference in Geneva next month that is meant to pave the way for negotiations on a possible transitional government in Syria.
The meeting in Istanbul came a day after leading members of the group, the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, and top foreign affairs officials, including Secretary of State John Kerry, held an 11-country meeting in Amman, Jordan, on the deteriorating situation in Syria. 
At the start of the talks in Istanbul, members of the opposition group expressed hesitation about attending the Geneva meeting, and they asked for clarification on what to expect before committing to it, while emphasizing that such talks might be futile unless President Bashar al-Assad is removed.
''We do not have too much illusion,'' said Ahmed Kamel, a member of the coalition. ''We know the regime, we know Assad, and we know that he would never quit power without force.''
Among world powers, Russia supports Mr. Assad's continued leadership, saying his presence would stabilize any transition. Members of the opposition group insist that he must not be a part of any future government.
''The international community says that they can remove Assad from power; so does the U.S.,'' Mr. Kamel said on the sidelines of discussions that were expected to last until midnight on Thursday. ''We just need to stop massacres until then.''
The opposition talks in Istanbul were also intended to choose the group's new president after the previous leader, Sheik Moaz al-Khatib, resigned amid political infighting in March.
At the start of the talks, Sheik Khatib put forward his own 16-step proposal for a political transition to a post-Assad government. Among other things, it would absolve all combatants involved in ''legal military action'' from prosecution and allow Mr. Assad and 500 people of his choosing, along with their families, to seek refuge in any country willing to welcome them.
Sheik Khatib's plan, published on his official Facebook page, would retain some members of the current government. Under it, Mr. Assad would hand power to Vice President Farouk al-Sharaa or Prime Minister Wael al-Halqi within 30 days of accepting the plan.
Subsequent measures include dissolving Parliament and transferring legislative powers to an agreed-upon candidate to handle the transition. Sheik Khatib added that the current government would continue to govern for 100 days, restructure the security and military apparatus, and release political prisoners.
But it is not clear whether any other members of the opposition coalition will support the plan. ''No one listened to him when he was still head of the coalition; why would they listen to him now?'' said an activist contacted via Skype in the suburbs of Damascus, Syria, who declined to give her name.
And it is unlikely to appeal to the rebels fighting Mr. Assad's army and its allies on the ground, who say they want Assad loyalists to pay for their actions.
Asi, an activist who works at a makeshift hospital in Qusayr, a Syrian town where clashes are raging between government forces and rebels, wrote on his Facebook page: ''This pathetic nobody Moaz, the dangerous, is calling for Assad to leave with 500 individuals and wants to absolve soldiers. You donkey, you're going to be tried before Assad, God willing.'' (The word for ''dangerous'' in Arabic is similar to Sheik Khatib's surname.)
Even if the plan did win support, Mr. Assad himself has repeatedly stressed in televised interviews that he has no plans to leave Syria, and refuses to step down before presidential elections -- which he plans to enter -- are held in 2014.
Sheik Khatib portrayed his proposal as a response to ideas by Russia and the United States for a political solution, and a way to ''prevent the decay of Syria, its people, its land, its economy.''
About 80,000 Syrians have been killed in two years of conflict. The meeting in Amman also focused on increasing concern that the fighting in Syria may spill across the border with Lebanon and destabilize that country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%) SYRIA (96%); TURKEY (94%); SWITZERLAND (88%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



790 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 6405 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Botallack O'Clock' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Roger Hilton may not have the name recognition of Mark Rothko and Stanley Spencer, two other 20th-century painters who became the subject of plays. But for what this abstract artist lacks in marquee value he makes up for in eccentricity: Hilton spent the last two years of his life confined to his bed -- and still managed to paint. Eddie Elks's black comedy about Hilton, which earned some attention at the 2011 Edinburgh Fringe Festival, makes its United States premiere as part of 59E59's Brits Off Broadway festival. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Eric Grode) 
'The Caucasian Chalk Circle' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Once you've turned Wedekind into an alt-pop juggernaut, Brecht should be a snap, right? Duncan Sheik, whose ''Spring Awakening'' score earned him a Tony Award, has written a new score for this 1940s parable about goodness in a diabolical world. Christopher Lloyd heads a cast that includes the dependable supporting performers Mary Testa, Tom Riis Farrell and Elizabeth A. Davis. The director, Brian Kulick, did right by Brecht's ''Galileo'' last year. Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Eric Grode)
'Charles Ives Take Me Home' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on June 13) Apparently being an insurance executive and a maverick American composer isn't enough. Now Charles Ives is a family peacemaker too, courtesy of this new drama by Jessica Dickey (''The Amish Project''). Here Ives becomes a sort of metaphysical referee between a violinist dad and his basketball-loving daughter. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Grode)
'Clubbed Thumb Summerworks' (starts on Friday) One of the city's oldest (18 years) and most prestigious summer festivals kicks off in a new location -- the Wild Project -- but the assemblage of new talent remains impressive. The first of the three plays, all of which deal in one way or another with disaster, is ''Baby Screams Miracle,'' by Clare Barron. Next up: ''Phoebe in Winter,'' by Jen Silverman, and ''La Brea,'' by Gregory S. Moss. Wild Project, 195 East Third Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, clubbedthumb.org. (Grode)
'The Comedy of Errors' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on June 18) The thought of an intermission-free Shakespeare is a daunting one, but the Public Theater promises just that with its production of this rarely produced work. Featuring the familiar faces of Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Hamish Linklater in duplicate (each plays a pair of twins), this lean-and-mean staging by Daniel Sullivan promises to have audiences out of Central Park in well under two hours. Delacorte Theater, Central Park, near 81st Street and Central Park West, (212) 539-8750, shakespeareinthepark.org. (Grode)
'The Explorers Club' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on June 20) Nell Benjamin, who co-wrote the score to ''Legally Blonde: The Musical,'' once again takes on the humorous travails of a bright woman trying to surmount institutionalized sexism. Only this time she's looking back about a century, to 1879 London, as the titular organization grapples with whether to allow a brilliant woman (Jennifer Westfeldt) into its ranks. Not even discovering a lost city, it seems, can guarantee membership. City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Grode)
'Far From Heaven' (in previews; opens on June 2) It's been a busy spring for Richard Greenberg, who has opened two new Broadway plays, ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' which has already closed, and ''The Assembled Parties.'' Here he has joined the ''Grey Gardens'' creative team for the musicalization of a movie -- the lush 2002 homage to Douglas Sirk's febrile melodramas, in which racial and sexual taboos topple in a seemingly idyllic Connecticut town in 1957. Kelli O'Hara and Steven Pasquale lead the whopping cast of 18 -- the largest Playwrights Horizons has ever fielded. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Grode)
'The Giacomo Variations' (opens on Thursday) Its title notwithstanding, the brand-new Cherry Orchard Festival has nothing to do with Chekhov. It does, however, feature no less a performer than John Malkovich as no less a personage than Casanova. (Did you know that Giacomo was Casanova's first name? Well, now you do.) Mr. Malkovich plays the legendary lover in his twilight years, with excerpts from Casanova's 1790 memoir interspersed with live chamber performances of Mozart. Ingeborga Dapkunaite also stars. City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (800) 349-0021, cherryorchardfestival.org. (Grode)
'Good Television' (in previews; opens on June 4) Playwrights aren't quite as hard on the television industry as they used to be. (After all, half of them are on the writing staffs of TV shows these days.) But reality television still comes in for a good grilling now and then, which is the case with this piece from the longtime actor Rod McLachlan. Here he looks at the machinations that take place on both sides of the camera as part of a reality program about addiction and rehab. Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
'A Picture of Autumn' (in previews; opens on June 10) Even by Mint Theater standards, N.C. Hunter's 1951 play qualifies as a rarity: They are presenting its American premiere. Hunter's refined, tentative style became synonymous in some corners with everything that the Angry Young Men of mid-20th-century British theater opposed, but perhaps it's time to revisit this piece here. It's about a family trying to hold on to their decrepit ancestral home, and it gave London audiences their first glimpse of a playwright who would soon become an important, but now-forgotten, British dramatist in the 1950s and '60s. Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Grode)
'Reasons to Be Happy' (in previews; opens on June 11) For anyone going through ''The Office'' withdrawal, the headline here will be Jenna Fischer (a k a Pam) in her Off Broadway debut. For everyone else, the news is that Neil LaBute has created a sequel -- the MCC Theater is calling it a companion piece -- to his understated (by LaButian standards) 2008 gem ''Reasons to Be Pretty.'' All four of its characters are back for more high-octane couplings and uncouplings, with Ms. Fischer joined by Josh Hamilton, Leslie Bibb and the LaBute regular Fred Weller. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Grode)
'Somewhere Fun' (in previews; opens on June 4) Jenny Schwartz made plenty of friends in high theatrical places -- including Edward Albee -- with her linguistically and emotionally ambitious ''God's Ear'' in 2007. In her first play since then, Ms. Schwartz and her ''God's Ear'' director, Anne Kauffman, explore an impromptu reunion between two women who met 35 years ago. Ms. Schwartz's ear for the quirks and clichés of the English language remains intact, though her cast is a bit starrier this time around: Kathleen Chalfant and Kate Mulgrew are the two women. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Grode)
'Sontag: Reborn' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on June 6) This Builders Association production returns with Moe Angelos (who also wrote the work) playing a young Susan Sontag. Adapted from the first volume of Sontag's journals (covering the years 1947 to 1963), the play is once again being directed by Marianne Weems. In his 2012 review of the play (which ran at the Public Theater as part of the Under the Radar festival), Charles Isherwood called it ''a touching, exquisitely rendered portrait of the artist (and thinker) in the process of self-creation.'' New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-5475, nytw.org. (Nicole Herrington)
'Three Kinds of Exile' (in previews; opens on June 11) John Guare's new play has a dependably meaty subject -- the lives of three noted émigrés from Poland and Czechoslovakia, among them the writer Witold Gombrowicz -- and one unexpected co-star: Mr. Guare himself, who is making his Off Broadway acting debut 45 years after winning his first Obie Award for playwriting. Among his co-stars are the actors-turned-authors David Pittu and Martin Moran, so they'll have plenty to talk about. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
'The Tutors' (in previews; opens on June 5) Second Stage kicks off its two-play Uptown series of new works with this comedy by Erica Lipez about three young adults who, when they are not developing their social-networking start-up, tutor the offspring of New York's 1 percent. Thomas Kail, who looked at a very different tax bracket of New Yorkers when he directed ''In the Heights,'' is working with some of Off Broadway's more dependable young names, including Matt Dellapina, Keith Nobbs and Aubrey Dollar. McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Grode)
'Venice' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on June 13) Crumbling political structures in the not-too-distant future: The familiar tropes of dystopian fiction are given a fresh workout by Matt Sax and Eric Rosen, the young voices who scored a hit in 2008 with the hip-hop-flavored ''Clay.'' Here their musical palette expands to include more traditional rock, and they have assembled an impressive cast for this Public Lab staging, one that includes Jennifer Damiano and Leslie Odom Jr. as well as Mr. Sax himself. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Grode)
Broadway
'Ann' Holland Taylor wrote and stars in this solo show about Ann Richards, the straight-shooting onetime governor of Texas. Ms. Taylor's engaging performance goes beyond impersonation, though the script is neither a dramatically shapely piece of writing nor a deeply probing character study (1:55). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Jane Lynch as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynne Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly Charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Big Knife' Bobby Cannavale stars in the first (and last?) Broadway revival of Clifford Odets's 1949 drama about a movie star in a moral bind: to knuckle under to studio blackmail and sign his life and artistic aspirations away, or leave behind the corrupt system and risk reprisals. Doug Hughes's sluggish production doesn't make a case for the play's enduring merits; Odets handled similar themes with more urgency and cogency in ''Golden Boy,'' seen earlier this season in a superior revival (2:20). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'I'll Eat You Last: A Chat With Sue Mengers' Bette Midler gives the most lusciously entertaining performance of the Broadway season in John Logan's soufflé of a solo show in which she depicts the Hollywood agent Sue Mengers, dishing great piles of dirt as she awaits word from her great friend -- and ex-client -- Barbra Streisand (1:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Lucky Guy' Nora Ephron's elegy and valentine to the rough-and-tumble of big-city newsrooms and scoop-hungry reporters, starring Tom Hanks as the columnist Michael McAlary, is written with a true fan's avidity. Directed with bells and whistles by George C. Wolfe, this is less a fully developed play than a boisterous swapping of fond anecdotes about the end of a life and the end of an era (2:00). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Macbeth' Alan Cumming portrays the Scottish general who would be king, and all the other significant roles, in this one-man race through Shakespeare's tragedy, set in a mental institution. Mr. Cumming's virtuosity and the gothic inventions of the directors, John Tiffany and Andrew Goldberg, impress, but while the actor effectively differentiates the roles, he never fully inhabits any of them (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams, and in a lovely, low-key performance, Condola Rashad (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in Nicholas Martin's production, smoothly transferred from a sellout run Off Broadway (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Bull' Mike Bartlett's efficient three-character, 55-minute exercise in human brutality, in which the workplace is transformed into a boxing ring, isn't as rich or complex as his ''Cockfight Play.'' But as directed by Clare Lizzimore, it may provide catharsis for theatergoers seeking to purge tensions by watching a metaphoric version of what happens during their regular office hours (:55). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Brantley)
'Bunty Berman Presents...' Though it sounds as if it should be a hoot, Ayub Khan Din's musical sendup of Indian movie-making is mostly only a whimper. Look hard and you can discern the reproachful outline of the brasher, more outrageously satisfying show it might have been. Scott Elliott directs a cast led by Mr. Din as a beleaguered Bombay producer. (2:30). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; '_______ Up Everything' The unprintable title of this winsome rock musical is trying way too hard to shock and awe. But then, so are all the show's characters, who are Brooklyn faux-hemians desperately trying to prove their anti-establishment bona fides. Poking fun at the pasty-white underbelly of Brooklyn's hipster crowd is like shooting free-range ducks in an artisanal barrel, but with catchy music and a talented cast, this show still does so exquisitely well (1:35). Elektra Theater, 669 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, fueonstage.com. (Catherine Rampell)
'The Golden Dragon' This darkly whimsical play about alienation and exploitation by the acclaimed German writer Roland Schimmelpfennig is set in a Pan-Asian restaurant and the apartments around it. An excellent cast, expert design and pacey direction by Ed Sylvanus Iskandar cannot make up for the play's slender substance (1:15). New Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, playco.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'I'm a Stranger Here Myself' The cabaret singer Mark Nadler does an effective job of transforming what last year was a cabaret show into a theatrical production, annotating a journey through music that was created during the Weimar Republic or by composers like Kurt Weill after they escaped Naziism. The show starts out feeling like a pleasant history lesson but ends as a profoundly personal journey (1:45). (Resumes on Tuesday.) Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (Claudia La Rocco)
'The Master Builder' John Turturro plays Halvard Solness, the tortured, torturing architect in Andrei Belgrader's studied but arid production of Ibsen's enigmatic drama about the spiritual cost of success and the mysterious forces that shape human destinies (2:10). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Murder Ballad' A small but savvy musical that panders in style to those of us who lap up febrile accounts of fatal attractions. Julia Jordan and Juliana Nash's contemporary tale of a razor-edged love triangle knows exactly what it wants to do, and does it most efficiently, with a four-member cast, directed by Trip Cullman. Staged last fall at Manhattan Theater Club's Studio at Stage II, the show returns with most of its original cast (John Ellison Conlee, Will Swenson and Rebecca Naomi Jones) and an addition: Caissie Levy, who is taking over for Karen Olivo. Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast whose members bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
'Nikolai and the Others' An estimable cast of 18, directed by the ensemble master David Cromer, works in harmonious disharmony in Richard Nelson's sprawling, occasionally soporific portrait of transplanted eminent Russians in leafy Connecticut in the late 1940s. The real-life models for the characters here include George Balanchine (a perfect Michael Cerveris) and Igor Stravinsky (John Glover) (2:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Old Hats' Bill Irwin and David Shiner, the peerless neo-vaudevillian jesters behind the long-running hit ''Fool Moon,'' have concocted a winning new compendium of nifty clown routines. The pixie-ish singer-songwriter Nellie McKay makes for a perfect musical foil in this ebullient, thoroughly charming variety show (1:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Old-Fashioned Prostitutes (A True Romance)' The great avant-garde auteur Richard Foreman returns to the stage with a gleeful brain-bender in which a man (Rocco Sisto) recalls his wilting salad days. Memory Lane, for Mr. Foreman, turns out to be near Lewis Carroll's Wonderland, and his nostalgic frame of mind melts and warps like a Salvador Dalí clock. Great fun for organic head trippers (1:05). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' (reopens on Thursday) With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
'A Public Reading of an Unproduced Screenplay About the Death of Walt Disney' Larry Pine gives a mesmerizing performance as the title character in Lucas Hnath's dark comic inversion of the Disney legend. The staccato, stylized writing can be wearying, but Sarah Benson's smooth direction and a terrific cast hold your attention fast (1:15). Soho Rep, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, sohorep.org. (Isherwood)
'These Halcyon Days' Deirdre Kinahan's two-hander about a man and a woman in a nursing home in Ireland boasts excellent performances by Anita Reeves and Stephen Brennan. At 70 minutes, the pace is brisk, and the play, which is occasionally sentimental, has the feel of a short story, with the emphasis on character: we get to know the hopes and disappointments of Sean and Patricia as their lives approach the end (1:10). Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, irishartscenter.org. (Saltz)
'Unconstitutional' Colin Quinn's entertaining spin through the history of our country translates wonky history into very funny jokes (1:05). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Jason Zinoman)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Deadly She-Wolf Assassin at Armageddon!' Expertly staged, this historical martial-arts tale, a riff on the manga series ''Lone Wolf and Cub,'' transcends its genre. Its multitalented creator, Fred Ho (who wrote the script with Ruth Margraff), composed the jazzy score, a surprising fit with the period setting. But its most impressive features are artful set design, gorgeous costumes and fight choreography elevated to heights of dancelike grace (1:30). La MaMa Ellen Stewart Theater, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Webster)
'The Hotel Colors' It's not quite the Hotel California, but there is a sense of lives adrift in Eliza Bent's debut play. A strong cast and Anna Brenner's direction lend heft to an engaging but uneven script (1:30). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wyckoff Avenues, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (La Rocco)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (David Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Shadows' Hoi Polloi returns with its inventive 2011 stage adaptation of John Cassavetes's classic 1959 indie film. Directed by Alec Duffy, the troupe transcends the source material's narrative limitations with verve and audacity (1:20). Jack, 505 ½ Waverly Avenue, at Fulton Street, Brooklyn, jackny.org. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Bootlegging it, Gershwin-style (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
&#x2605; 'The Call' (closes on Sunday) Tanya Barfield's thoughtful, absorbing drama explores the tensions that arise when a white couple (the terrific Kerry Butler and Kelly AuCoin) decide to adopt an African baby. Their African-American friends, a lesbian couple well played by Eisa Davis and Crystal A. Dickinson, have different perspectives on their choice. Leigh Silverman directs (1:50). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'Different Animals' (closes on Sunday) An unhappy husband and wife in the South take on a couple of ill-fitting lovers. The wife picks the local pastor; her dumpy husband chooses his manic office mate, Molly (Abby Rosebrock, who also wrote the script). In writing this work, Ms. Rosebrock has bent over backward to craft the show's potentially cartoonish characters with nuance and compassion, but the pacing is weighed down by overlong monologues and frequent and laborious scene changes (2:00). Cherry Lane Theater Studio, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 989-2020, Ext. 10, cherrylanetheatre.org. (Rampell)
'A Family for All Occasions' (closes on Sunday) Bob Glaudini's dreary drama about a disorderly family whose patriarch, played by the fine Jeffrey DeMunn, finds an unlikely ally in his daughter's boyfriend (William Jackson Harper). Philip Seymour Hoffman's listless direction doesn't help (2:10). Bank Street Theater, 155 Bank Street, West Village, (212) 513-1080, labtheater.org. (Isherwood)
'Pinkolandia' (closes on Sunday) Two young sisters from a family of Chilean exiles come of age in 1980s Wisconsin in this passionate and ambitious new play (2:10). Intar Theater, 500 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 695-6134, intartheatre.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
'This Side of Neverland' (closes on Sunday) A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle. How refreshing it is to be reminded of this feminist battle cry not by a straight-out-of-central-casting feminazi cliché but by J.M. Barrie. The Pearl Theater Company's delightful revival of two of his lesser-known one-act comedies from 1914 offers feminist themes and other wry social commentary (on class anxiety and the perils of the entertainment business) that still resonate (1:30). Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 563-9261, pearltheatre.org. (Rampell)
'White Hot' (closes on Sunday) A cast of self-absorbed characters seeks out pain in this cynical tale (1:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Jaworowski)
'Who's Your Daddy?' (closes on Sunday) It is impossible not to love the story told in Johnny O'Callaghan's solo show about his adoption of a 3-year-old Ugandan boy. Mr. O'Callaghan's onstage persona may dip into arrogance at times, but the production works up considerable suspense and occasional outrage, even though the outcome is a foregone conclusion (1:20). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Gates)
'Women of Will' (closes on Sunday) Mixing casually delivered scholarly exposition with intensely rendered performance, this impassioned exploration of Shakespeare's heroines by Tina Packer traces their evolution through their language. When Ms. Packer and her co-star, Nigel Gore, get down to the business of acting, it's not just poetry in motion, it's thought made flesh. Eric Tucker directs (2:30). Gym at Judson, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, judson.org/The-Gym. (Brantley)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PAINTING (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%); WRITERS (65%); BASKETBALL (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); THEATER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



791 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: With Session Ending, Perry Takes the Reins

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Look at your calendar. It's about to be Perry time.
Texas governors like Rick Perry have three primary sources of power.
First is the bully pulpit -- the ability to draw attention to a particular issue or cause, to get widespread media coverage, and to try to sway public opinion simply by saying things and being heard.
Governors also have the power to appoint most of the people who run the executive branch. It's not a cabinet government, and it takes years for governors to put their own people on all of the state boards and commissions. But eventually the power of those alliances and appointments accumulates. 
Mr. Perry, who has been the governor since 2000, has extended that second power further than any of his predecessors. He doesn't just have the appointees; those appointees have, to a remarkable extent, hired former Perry aides, supporters and acolytes to fill agency positions. The professional people at the top of those agencies are often obliged to Mr. Perry, or to his operation, for their positions. His control of the executive branch has undone the cliché about the constitutional weakness of Texas governors. Someone caution his successors.
Then there is the power of the veto, which is coming into play as the legislative session draws to a close. Legislation that makes it to Mr. Perry's desk becomes law whether he signs it or not, unless he uses his veto. And he's been willing enough, vetoing 273 bills since taking office. When Mr. Perry tells a lawmaker he might veto something, he might actually veto it.
Mr. Perry has never had a veto overridden by the Legislature, and that's where the calendar comes in. Lawmakers leave on Monday, and Mr. Perry will have until Father's Day, June 16, to decide which bills should become law.
That means they won't be here in Austin to try to override any veto. Even if he calls a special session, Mr. Perry's aides say, lawmakers acting in a special session can't override a veto of a bill from another session.
So this is his time.
Other high officials have their own seasons of power. When the Legislature is in session, the speaker of the House and the lieutenant governor are at the peak of their power. Those two Cinderellas -- Speaker Joe Straus and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst -- are approaching their midnight hour. They will still have some political juice after the session is over, but not what they have right now.
Comptrollers are powerful going into legislative sessions and, when they play it right, coming out: those are the times when lawmakers need someone to tell them how much money they will have to spend, and then that their budget arithmetic was correct.
Comptroller Susan Combs started the session by telling lawmakers, in essence, that they have more money than they are allowed to spend.
That was terrific news for the lawmakers, but it also dampened Ms. Combs's clout. In a session like 2011's, when the state was short of money, any pennies a comptroller can produce are welcome. That is potentially a trading proposition: the legislators need money, and the comptroller wants things from the Legislature.
With money to spare this time, Ms. Combs's leverage dipped a bit. In fact, the House killed one of her pet projects this week, calling a rule violation on a bill that would have required more disclosure of debt and debt payments from local governments across Texas.
The comptroller still has to score the budget when lawmakers are finished, making sure that they spent no more than allowed from each account, that her forecast of state income was correct and so on. Again, when the state is relatively flush, that's not as tense as when state revenue is low or the economy is tight.
That leaves the attorney general. The state's top lawyer has the same powers no matter what's on the calendar. Greg Abbott, like the head of every state agency, has to get his budget from the Legislature, but that's usually not a big issue. His ability to file lawsuits, issue opinions and run a large public sector law firm is pretty steady. He has a bully pulpit second only to a governor's. His power doesn't wax and wane like the others.
But for the next three weeks, the clout belongs to the governor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



792 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: The Joys of No Income Tax, the Agonies of Other Kinds

BYLINE: By AMAN BATHEJA. 
abatheja@texastribune.org

 BODY:
When Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana wanted to sell his plan to replace his state's income tax with a higher sales tax, he pointed to Texas as both the problem and the solution.
Too many Louisiana residents are moving to Texas, because that is where the jobs are, he said. The jobs are there, he argued, because Texas does taxes right.
''You go to Dallas, you go to Houston, and there are entire neighborhoods that are filled with our neighbors from Louisiana,'' Mr. Jindal said last month during a speech to the St. Tammany West Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. Jindal, who has since acknowledged that opposition to his proposal remains insurmountable, is among a growing group of Republicans across the country who are working to repeal their states' income tax, using Texas' economic success to make their case. 
Inside Texas, however, the state's tax system is not universally beloved. Although few are calling for Texas to impose its own income tax, the way the state employs property, sales and business taxes to finance services, particularly education, draws criticism and debate across the political spectrum.
''There's no question that it's a positive to not have a personal income tax,'' said Dale Craymer, president of the business-backed Texas Taxpayers and Research Association. ''But that has to be balanced out in some manner, and the way Texas has balanced it out is with lower-than-average spending, higher-than-average property taxes and higher-than-average sales taxes.''
High-ranking officials in Georgia, North Carolina and Ohio have also cited Texas in recent months as a model for tax reform.
In his January State of the State speech, Gov. Sam Brownback of Kansas underscored his plan to phase out that state's income tax by proclaiming: ''Look out, Texas. Here comes Kansas.''
The focus on Texas is largely because of the state's outsize economic performance throughout the recent recession. During his failed presidential campaign, Gov. Rick Perry touted Texas' low taxes, and its lack of an income tax in particular, as central to what has become known as the ''Texas miracle.''
Mr. Perry has maintained that focus over the past year. On April 15, the federal income tax filing deadline, he bragged to reporters that an estimated 1,000 residents were moving to Texas every day. His message to them: ''You can stop trying to figure out how to pay the state income tax, because we don't have one.''
Most states finance local and state government largely through some mixture of sales taxes, property taxes and income taxes. Texas is one of nine states that do not levy an individual income tax.
The Tax Foundation, a conservative-leaning research group, ranks Texas ninth-best on its State Business Tax Climate Index, largely because of the state's lack of an income tax. On three of the foundation's other major rankings -- property taxes, sales taxes and corporate taxes -- Texas ranks in the bottom 20 states.
Texas does not have a statewide property tax, but local property taxes remain a crucial complaint among businesses and homeowners.
''That's the least attractive thing we have in our tax code,'' said Representative Harvey Hilderbran, a Kerrville Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. This session, he has taken a lead role in efforts to renew a state program that allows school districts to offer property-tax breaks to companies as an economic incentive tool. The program has drawn criticism from conservative and liberal groups that argue that it is too expensive and allows districts to pick winners and losers in the marketplace.
But a bill extending the program another decade at a cost of $4.4 billion passed the House nearly unanimously this month amid fears that Texas communities would lose out on jobs to, among others, Louisiana, where property taxes are lower and incentives are also available.
''Absent the ability to offer some sort of short-term break on property taxes, we couldn't compete for most major industrial investments,'' Mr. Craymer of the Texas Taxpayers and Research Association said. ''Our high property taxes would just scare folks off.''
In 2006, Texas lawmakers approved a tax reform package that lowered property taxes and created a new business franchise tax to help pay for it. The new tax has never generated as much revenue as projected and has been derided by businesses. This session, more than 90 bills were filed aimed at reforming the tax, including 9 proposing to repeal it entirely.
''It's been a pretty onerous tax on small and medium-sized businesses,'' said Talmadge Heflin, the director of the Center for Fiscal Policy at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative research and outreach organization. ''I think there will be a continued effort to do away with it.''
Paradoxically, a chief complaint about the tax is that it does not operate more like an income tax. Businesses pay the franchise tax on gross receipts, leading to some having to pay it even in years when they make little or no profit.
''When a small business is unprofitable and must pay the tax, they use their personal savings, mortgage their home or borrow money from their family to meet their obligation,'' said Will Newton, executive director of the Texas chapter of the National Federation of Independent Business.
While businesses say the Texas tax system leaves much to be desired, cities and school districts argue that the state falls short on the financing end, particularly considering its surging population growth. Local debt has shot up over the past decade, in large part to cover the costs for new schools and public maintenance projects.
''The state is doing less building of highways and roads and pushing that funding down to cities and counties,'' said Bennett Sandlin, executive director of the Texas Municipal League, which lobbies for local governments. (The Texas Municipal League is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.) Last year, lawsuits representing more than 500 school districts were filed against the state arguing that it does not properly finance public education. A district court judge found the state's school system unconstitutional, a ruling that the state is expected to appeal. Many lawmakers expect Mr. Perry to call a special session next year on school finance.
Groups like the liberal Center for Public Policy Priorities say the varied complaints with the current tax system in Texas illustrate why a state income tax makes sense. The group's senior fiscal analyst, Dick Lavine, said an income tax would give the state's revenue stream a more balanced approach.
''The great strength of the income tax is that it can be made proportional to a taxpayer's ability to pay,'' Mr. Lavine said. ''In the Texas tax system, those with the lowest income pay the highest proportion of their income in taxes.''
Conservatives counter that an income tax would stifle the state's economic success, the very success that has elicited envy from officials around the country. This month, Republicans in the North Carolina Senate released a tax-cut proposal they described as the first step in phasing out that state's personal and corporate income taxes. Phil Berger, president pro tem of the Senate, said strong economic growth in states like Texas helped inspire the initiative.
''I wouldn't say we're in a position to replicate everything in Texas,'' Mr. Berger said. ''We don't have much tumbleweed here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, who has worked to repeal his own state's income tax, citing Texas' economic success, with Gov. Rick Perry last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN PHILPOTT FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); INCOME TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); TAX REFORM (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); RECESSION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (90%); RICK PERRY (78%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



793 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Global Stock Markets Slip on Signs of Stress in China and Japan

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER and DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A 7 percent stock market sell-off in Tokyo led to moderate declines in equity markets across Europe and Asia on Thursday, and Wall Street opened weakly, amid concerns about global growth and uneasiness about central bank actions.
Shares came under pressure in Asian trading after news that the manufacturing sector in China, one of the main engines of global growth in recent years, was faltering. That, along with concerns about daring shock therapy Japan is employing to restart its economy after two decades of stagnation, further combined with leftover confusion in financial markets about the U.S. Federal Reserve's intentions following testimony Wednesday by its chairman, helped to further rattle investors. 
The result was a 7.3 percent rout in the Japanese market benchmark, the Nikkei 225-stock average, and other Asian markets followed. The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong sagged 2.5 percent, and the Sydney benchmark index fell almost 2 percent.
In European afternoon trading, the Euro Stoxx 50 index of euro zone blue chips fell 2.5 percent, while the FTSE 100 in London was down 2 percent. On Wall Street, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down more than 1 percent in morning trading, while the Dow Jones industrial average lost 0.6 percent. The Nasdaq was off 0.8 percent.
The euro ticked up 0.2 percent against the dollar, to $1.2887. The dollar fell 1.4 percent against the Japanese currency, to 101.74 yen.
China's slowing momentum has been long in the making and is, to some extent, deliberately engineered by the authorities in Beijing, who are trying to bring about a more gradual but more balanced pace of growth. Still, disappointments over the performance of China's economy -- the second-largest in the world after that of the United States -- remain liable to unsettle markets not just in Asia but around the globe.
High hopes that the bold economic policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan will succeed have prompted a huge rally in stocks since November. The Japanese market is still up nearly 40 percent since the start of the year.
Akira Amari, Japan's economy minister, sought to calm nerves after the market closed Thursday. ''The Japanese economy is staging a sound recovery, and there is no need for panic,'' he said, according to the Nikkei business daily. The plunge ''is not exceedingly large, and stock prices in China, where the shock originated, have not fallen so much either,'' he added.
''The stock market's rise has so far been largely driven by expectations of an economic turnaround, but we've yet to see Mr. Abe's policies really gain traction,'' said Kiyoshi Yoshimoto, chief senior economist at the Japan Research Institute in Tokyo. ''That means even small shocks, like lower-than-expected numbers out of China or some volatility in bond markets, can trigger a big but temporary response.''
The sell-off Thursday came in spite of economic news from Europe that was, if not good, at least better than many expected. The Markit Economics euro zone purchasing managers' index for the manufacturing sector rose to 47.8 from 46.7, while the services index rose to 47.5 from 47.0. While a number below 50 indicates continued contraction, the improvement suggests the economy may be getting nearer to its nadir, setting up conditions for a rebound in the second half.
In Hong Kong, Stephen Corry, chief investment strategist at LGT, agreed that a combination of negative news helped spur the sell-off, including the disappointing data from China and signs that the Fed may begin to scale back its stimulus efforts. But the Japanese market had rallied more than 14 percent this month alone, he added, and ''was probably due a breather.''
Analysts have broadly welcomed Mr. Abe's efforts to breathe life into the Japanese economy through a three-pronged approach of major fiscal spending, a promise to pursue structural reforms and a monetary policy that has effectively flooded the economy with cheap money through purchases of government bonds, commercial debt and other assets.
One result has been a weakening of the yen, whose 17 percent drop against the dollar since the start of this year has helped lift the earnings prospects of many Japanese exporters. Data released in the past few weeks have shown that the economy has begun to pick up speed.
Taking many market observers by surprise, however, bond yields have risen in recent days, fanning worries about a rising interest rate burden for the government. The yield on the 10-year Japanese government bond briefly spiked above 1 percent Thursday before dropping back to 0.9 percent. The move spooked investors, helping produce the fall in the stock markets, said Stephen Davies, chief executive of Javelin Wealth Management in Singapore.
Japan is vulnerable to rising borrowing costs because of its high public debt, which is twice the size of its economy. Bonds are also the main financial assets held by banks, pension funds and insurance companies, making a surge in debt yields perilous. Given the indebtedness of the Japanese government, there are worries about the impact that this could have if sustained,'' Mr. Davies said. ''It is too early to say whether it will be sustained, so we should not read too much into one day's extreme move in the markets.''
Mr. Yoshimoto of the Japan Research Institute also said the sharp market moves Thursday had not changed the overall longer-term picture for recovery in Japan. That could change if Mr. Abe fails to follow through on his promises of economic reforms, he said, ''but for now, there's no need to become overly pessimistic about Japanese shares.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EURO (72%); EURO ZONE (70%); JAPANESE YEN (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) JAPAN (96%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



794 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: The Genocide Trial of Guatemala's Former Dictator

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your May 23 editorial ''Justice Interrupted in Guatemala'' criticizes the decision by the Constitutional Court to annul lower-court proceedings against Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt, who is being tried for wartime atrocities under his rule in 1982 and 1983. Your editorial calls for an ''independent process'' to bring him to justice and suggests that Guatemala's judicial system is too weak, slow and vulnerable to interference to be able to handle this case. 
Guatemala is the first country in the world to try a case of this nature in its own courts. It is important that this process be allowed to play itself out. The Constitutional Court's ruling only annulled proceedings that occurred after April 19, and did so because of serious irregularities in the trial procedures. Within 24 hours of that ruling, our Supreme Court had already identified a Court of Appeals to continue the case.
President Otto Pérez Molina has publicly stated his opinion that, although grave human rights violations did take place during the period in question, they did not amount to ''genocide'' as defined by international law. Nevertheless, Mr. Pérez Molina has vowed to respect the final decision of Guatemala's courts, whatever it may be.
It is important that others -- both within and outside Guatemala -- also respect that decision, along with Guatemala's right to follow its own judicial proceedings according to its own laws.
RITA CLAVERIE DE SCIOLLI Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Guatemala City, May 23, 2013
To the Editor:
Your article about the reversal of the conviction of Guatemala's former dictator, Gen. Efraín Ríos Montt, finally begins to provide a more nuanced look at the case (''Trial of Ex-Dictator of Guatemala May Have to Restart,'' news article, May 22). Missing, however, is the role of race, as Guatemala has long been dominated socially, politically and economically by Europeans and their offspring.
The Mayan majority remains unchanged but is exploited through the intermediary of a partly modernized class of Mayans detached from their racial roots. The army, run by the dominant Europeans, reflects the same class and racial mix.
Much of the character of the country reflects the evolution of its dominant economic interests -- mining, sugar and coffee. Those interests reinforce European dominance, so many were surprised by General Ríos Montt's conviction, but not by its reversal.
JOHN T. BENNETT Alexandria, Va., May 22, 2013
The writer, a Foreign Service officer, was chargé d'affaires in the United States Embassy in Guatemala in 1979.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); WRITERS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) GUATEMALA (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



795 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: California Puts Tentative Price on Health Policies Under New Law

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
California, widely seen as a model for how individuals will buy health insurance under the new health care law, announced Thursday that 13 insurers had been chosen to sell policies through the insurance marketplace -- or exchange -- being created under the law.
State officials said that rate increases for individuals who already had insurance would not be as high as some had feared. Blue Shield of California, for example, estimated its current customers would see rate increases of about 13 percent. Some estimates had suggested rate increases could be 30 percent. The increases are largely the result of higher prices and the need to cover people who now have no insurance and are likely to have expensive medical problems. 
The new rates for individuals will be about the same -- or lower -- than the current rates for small businesses, according to officials from Covered California, the group operating the exchange.
''The changes in the market are really making individuals much more like employer groups,'' Paul Markovich, the chief executive of Blue Shield, said. Like people who now receive health insurance through their employers, individuals buying policies on their own will be able to enroll next year even if they have a potentially expensive medical condition, and the policies' benefits and premiums will be more standardized.
''We held insurers' feet to the fire,'' said Peter V. Lee, the executive director of Covered California, who said that the exchange had received interest from 33 insurers and actively negotiated with them over their proposed rates and the kind of network of doctors and hospitals they would offer. Covered California estimates that the plans offered will allow consumers access to about 80 percent of the state's practicing physicians and hospitals.
While Washington, Vermont and several other states have also announced the details of their respective exchanges, California's size and previous support for the health care law made it an important test of the law, said Paul B. Ginsburg, the president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. ''A lot of people will be watching California to see how well it succeeds,'' he added.
California chose to behave more like Massachusetts in aggressively negotiating with insurers on behalf of its residents. But other states are, at least initially, taking a more passive approach, in which they do not try to bargain over rates.
The 13 plans selected represent a range of insurers, from WellPoint, one of the nation's largest commercial players, to plans like Alameda Alliance for Health and Molina Healthcare that in the past have specialized in providing coverage to low-income patients through the state's version of Medicaid. Other entrants include health systems like Sharp HealthCare, a San Diego group of hospitals and doctors that also operates a health plan.
The four largest companies providing coverage to people who are not covered through an employer but buy a policy on their own will all be selling plans in the marketplace. They are Blue Shield; Anthem Blue Cross of California, owned by WellPoint; Kaiser Permanente, the health maintenance organization giant; and Health Net, a commercial insurer based in Los Angeles.
Several other large companies will be absent from the exchange, including the UnitedHealth Group, Aetna and Cigna. Unlike WellPoint, which operates a number of commercial Blue Cross plans that tend to have a sizable business offering individual coverage, the other companies have concentrated on employer coverage and have signaled that they will be cautious about which markets they will enter through the newly created exchanges.
''Aetna is taking a prudent and balanced approach to exchange participation in the first year,'' the company said in a statement. ''Our decisions about which exchanges to participate on are based on a careful review of key attributes, such as our current market presence, our ability to offer strong networks and competitively priced products and the regulatory environment in each state.''
Under the law, however, some insurers who sit out the first year could decide to enter the marketplace the second or third year. ''As the economics, sustainability and dynamics of the exchange continue to become clearer over time, the exchange has the potential to be a growth market with much to offer UnitedHealthcare, other insurers and consumers,'' a spokesman for UnitedHealthcare said.
The rates, which still need to be reviewed by state regulators, are not final, and officials on Thursday provided a small sampling of rates in areas around the country. In southern Los Angeles, for example, a 40-year-old individual would pay anywhere from $242 a month for a plan from HealthNet to $259 for plans from Molina or Anthem. The comparable plan for a small employer costs $362.
California took the step for 2014 to make sure the plans being offered had standard benefits so the pricing for plans does not vary widely, although there are differences. And some plans, like Anthem, boasted of their affiliation with well-known providers like the University of California hospitals and doctors.
While low-income individuals may still find paying $300 or more a month for a plan to be prohibitively expensive, consumer advocates praised the exchange's ability to keep premiums in line with what employers pay and say it is a promising first step in the effort to force plans and providers to work harder to offer more affordable insurance.
''Health insurance isn't cheap but this seems to provide individuals and families the group rate that large employers get,'' said Anthony Wright, the executive director of Health Access California, a state consumer advocacy coalition.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter V. Lee, executive director of Covered California, the state agency running the exchange, said it negotiated aggressively. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%)

COMPANY: BLUE SHIELD OF CALIFORNIA (91%); WELLPOINT INC (55%); SHARP HEALTHCARE (50%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013



796 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Used Computer, $116,000 or Best Offer

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
More than a decade ago, at a vintage computer fair in Silicon Valley, Dag Spicer had an opportunity to buy an original Apple-1 for $2,000. He passed. Any regrets? Not really, he said.
''Of course,'' Mr. Spicer added, ''I could have paid off my mortgage now with what it would be worth.''
Perhaps so. Last November, an Apple-1, also commonly known as the Apple I, sold for $640,000 at an auction in Germany. That sale surpassed the previous record of $374,500 set only five months earlier at Sotheby's in New York. 
The astronomical run-up in the price of the original Apple-1 machines -- made in 1976 and priced at $666.66 (about $2,700 in current dollars) -- is a story of the economics of scarcity and techno-fetishism, magnified by the mystique surrounding Apple and its founders, as the company has become one of the largest, most profitable corporations in the world.
The next test of the Apple-1 market comes on Saturday, at the same auction house in Cologne, Germany, where the record sale took place last November.
Even the auctioneer, Uwe Breker, expressed some surprise at the price reached last fall. For this week's auction, the reserve price -- the minimum sale price -- is $116,000, and Mr. Breker conservatively estimated the likely range from $260,000 to $400,000. ''But we will see,'' he said.
The auction market for the vintage machines, experts say, is thin and uncertain. For example, a nonworking Apple-1 failed to attract its reserve price of just over $75,000 at an auction last year in London. The record-setting auctions last year were of working originals, as is the Apple-1 going under the gavel on Saturday.
The sky-high prices suggest irrational exuberance. But technology historians say there is a rational appeal to possessing an Apple-1. ''It is Apple's creation story, the physical artifact that traces this incredible success to its origins,'' said Mr. Spicer, a senior curator at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif.
The Apple-1, Mr. Spicer added, was instrumental in the early transition in personal computing from its hobbyist roots to becoming a huge commercial business. Others were there too, notably the MITS Altair, which was introduced before the Apple-1, and was the first personal computer that Microsoft's founders, Bill Gates and Paul Allen, wrote software for.
But Apple proved to be the enduring computer maker. And its founders embodied the hobbyist-commercial shift. Stephen G. Wozniak was the hardware-hacking engineer and Steven P. Jobs, who died in 2011 after a battle with cancer, was the business visionary.
Apple-1's are scarce. An estimated 175 to 200 were produced in the Jobs family garage in Los Altos, Calif. Mike Willegal, who maintains an online registry of Apple-1's, has verified the existence of 46 of them. A software manager at Cisco, Mr. Willegal observed that there was a technical nostalgia to the Apple-1, recalling a simpler time in computing.
''No one understands a whole computer system anymore,'' Mr. Willegal said. ''But Woz'' -- Mr. Wozniak's nickname -- ''knew that board inside and out, and some people do today.''
A computer motherboard with clusters of chips was all that the bare-bones Apple-1 offered. Users had to supply their own keyboards, monitors and power supplies. It had 4 kilobytes of memory; a basic MacBook Air has more than a million times that. It could be used to run primitive computer games and write simple programs.
The Apple-1 was a reputation-building entry, but it was the Apple II, introduced a year later in 1977, that would sell in the millions and establish the company's business. When Mr. Wozniak was designing the Apple II, he was also handling customer service for the Apple-1, a distracting time drain.
After the Apple II went on sale, the company began an aggressive trade-in program, offering Apple II's and sometimes cash incentives in exchange for Apple-1's, said Bob Luther, who is writing a book on the vintage machines, ''The First Apple,'' which he plans to self-publish, with help from a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign.
In his book research, Mr. Luther called Michael Scott, Apple's president from 1977 to 1981, and interviewed him about the trade-in program. As Mr. Luther recalled, Mr. Scott told him, ''If we had done a better job, you and I wouldn't be having this phone call.''
''They just wanted the Apple-1 to go away,'' said Mr. Luther, who bought an Apple-1 for $7,600 in 2004. (''Mine's not for sale.'')
Auction prices for Apple-1's have not yet settled on firm standards. But according to Richard Austin, head of books and manuscripts at Sotheby's, who handled the auction of the Apple-1 for $374,500 last year, working machines in pristine condition with documentation command the highest prices. ''And a story behind it helps,'' Mr. Austin added.
The Apple-1 being auctioned on Saturday has a story. Its original owner was Fred Hatfield, a retired electrical engineer living in New Orleans.
The documentation with the machine includes a letter to Mr. Hatfield, signed by Steve Jobs, offering him a new Apple II and a check for $400 for his Apple-1, said Mr. Breker, the German auctioneer. Mr. Hatfield declined the offer, for whatever reason.
Mr. Breker is irritatingly discreet about the identity of the seller, saying only that he is a young American who works for a software company. ''He brought it over here in a blanket,'' Mr. Breker said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Steve Wozniak, left, with Steve Jobs and the pioneering Apple-1 in 1976. At left, the computer's circuits
users had to provide their own keyboard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY APPLE
JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Dag Spicer, above, of the Computer History Museum in California, with the Apple-1. Sotheby's sold one, left, for $374,500 last year. A few months later in Germany, one sold for $640,000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 EMMANUEL DUNAND/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); HISTORY (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (78%); BILL GATES (58%); PAUL ALLEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013



797 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: In Tax Overhaul Debate, Large vs. Small Companies

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
In America's contentious tax reform debate, it is seen as C-Suite versus Main Street.
Some of the biggest and most powerful companies in the United States are fighting for a cut in the official corporate tax rate, arguing that it is necessary to allow them to compete more effectively in the global market. But the nation's millions of small businesses fear they will be the ones paying for it.
''We are in favor of comprehensive tax reform that includes both corporate and personal tax, but we are not happy with anything that raises the rate for us,'' said Chris Whitcomb, the tax counsel for the National Federation of Independent Business, the leading small business lobbying and advocacy group, representing about 350,000 members.
The conflict, which in some ways is even larger than the controversial issue of how to properly tax multinational corporations on their global profits, arises because the vast majority of American businesses, including some large, well-known companies and prominent Wall Street firms, actually do not pay corporate taxes at all. 
Beginning in earnest in the 1980s, millions of businesses shed their traditional corporate status to become what are known as pass-through companies. That led to a boon for business, but was a drain on the Treasury.
But what began as a typical Washington dispute between big and small business has been transformed into a fierce lobbying battle that pits some of the richest firms in the country against one another. Some big pass-throughs ''are trying to conflate themselves with smaller pass-throughs,'' said one official working on tax reform in Washington -- so much so that they could be accused of ''small business identity theft.''
Business executives have long complained that a traditional corporation's profits are taxed twice, first at the corporate level, and then again on the dividends received by shareholders. Pass-throughs, by contrast, are allowed to distribute their profits directly to their owners and investors, who then pay federal taxes on their personal income tax schedule.
This arrangement, previously used almost exclusively by partnerships, very small businesses and the self-employed, proved especially attractive after the major 1986 tax overhaul, which cut personal rates below corporate ones. That spurred a vast migration to pass-through status, a shift that has continued up to the present day.
Of the 34 million business tax returns filed in 2009, the most recent data available, 32 million were pass-throughs, representing about 70 percent of net business income, compared with about one-quarter in 1980.
''Most businesses are pass-throughs,'' said Eric Toder, institute fellow at the Urban Institute in Washington. ''They dominate the business landscape.''
Companies that switched said the simpler, generally lower single-tax rules gave them a leg up and helped them grow.
McGregor Metalworking Companies, a family-owned business in Ohio and South Carolina, had 80 employees when it converted in 1986 and now has a work force of 370.
''It has been a real force for reinvestment,'' said Dan McGregor, 69, chairman of the company, which has seven shareholders.
Even though the top personal income tax rate of 39.6 percent once again exceeds the maximum corporate rate of 35 percent, the pass-through arrangement remains attractive to companies like McGregor Metalworking, analysts say, by avoiding double taxation. And it is even more appealing to firms that are able to treat some of their income as long-term capital gains, which are taxed at no more than 20 percent.
In the 1990s, the introduction of ''check the box'' tax return procedures sped the growth of pass-through businesses. Other rule changes, allowing companies with more shareholders to qualify and affording investors increased protection against personal liability for their business's debts, made pass-throughs even more popular -- and not only among smaller companies.
''The rules were originally written with small businesses in mind like restaurants, laundromats and small real estate developers,'' said Victor Fleischer, a professor at the University of Colorado Law School. ''But the same rules are being used by some of the largest companies.''
A recent study by the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the switch by corporations to pass-through status cost the federal government about $76 billion in tax revenue in 2007 alone.
''Crossing the line has been way too easy,'' said Chuck Marr, director of federal tax policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington. ''More and more these are very large companies, and they should be paying corporate taxes.''
In 2007, there were almost as many pass-throughs -- 15,360 -- with revenue exceeding $50 million annually as there were traditional corporations earning that amount. Among the big names escaping corporate taxes and paying taxes as pass-throughs is Bechtel, the global construction and engineering giant. A spokeswoman for Bechtel said it was a private company and would not comment on its tax status.
Companies typically surrender their pass-through status when they go public, but some energy firms won an exemption. Kinder Morgan has organized its units as publicly traded partnerships, and investors pay taxes at individual rates, as do investors at Enbridge Energy Partners.
Some financial giants were also able to opt out when they became publicly traded partnerships.
The Fortress Investment Group, the first hedge fund and private equity company to go public in the United States; Blackstone; the Carlyle Group; Apollo Global Management; and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts all pay as pass-throughs.
A spokesman for Blackstone said it supported ''comprehensive tax reform that puts everything on the table including a possible tax increase'' as part of a broader tax package that manages, in its view, to simplify and improve the overall business tax landscape. The Private Equity Growth Capital Council, a lobbying group, said the spread of pass-through companies had created jobs and helped the economy, arguing that adding another layer of tax by treating them as corporations would run counter to bipartisan efforts to streamline the tax code.
To pay for a cut in corporate tax rates, some large corporations and the Obama administration propose eliminating some of the billions of dollars in tax deductions and credits that both corporations and pass-through businesses enjoy. The White House has also broached taxing some of the largest pass-through companies as corporations.
''Large companies are increasingly avoiding tax by organizing themselves as pass-through businesses'' an administration issue paper noted, putting traditional corporations at a disadvantage.
In 2011, Timothy F. Geithner, who was the Treasury secretary, told the Senate Finance Committee: ''Congress has to revisit this basic question about whether it makes sense for us as a country to allow certain businesses to choose whether they are treated as corporations for tax purposes or not. It is not a fundamentally sustainable balance now.''
The pass-throughs are fighting back.
''We just want a level playing field,'' said Ron Travis, vice president for tax and legal affairs at O'Neal Industries, one of the largest metals distribution and manufacturing companies in the United States, with headquarters in Birmingham, Ala. O'Neal switched to pass-through status in 1987. It has a work force of 3,800, in the United States and abroad.
''If you do a corporate-only tax reform, we don't get a rate benefit,'' Mr. Travis said.
The bigger pass-throughs have plenty of allies among the vast ranks of small businesses that lawmakers are particularly attuned to. ''We would lose critical deductions and benefits and gain nothing back by a lower corporate tax rate,'' said Forrest McConnell, whose father started his family-owned car dealership business in Montgomery, Ala., in 1919.
And that alliance between the larger and smaller pass-throughs helps explain why any plan to cut corporate tax rates faces such tough sledding.
''This is one of the reasons why it is going to be difficult,'' said Howard Gleckman, a fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in Washington. ''As long as it is seen as raising taxes on America's yeomen business sector in order to cut taxes for Exxon, that is a really hard political sell.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dan McGregor of McGregor Metalworking said simpler, lower single-tax rules gave the company a leg up and helped it grow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHARTS: Shrinking Corporate Tax Base: The contribution of corporations to the government has been shrinking for decades, encouraged more recently by a shift among millions of companies to avoid the corporate income tax altogether and pay through the individual income tax code (Sources: Office of Management and Budget
 Internal Revenue Service) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX REFORM (92%); TAX LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); IDENTITY THEFT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013



798 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Changes Continue as Obama Names 2 Senate Aides for Posts

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The nominees, Kara Stein and Michael Piwowar, are familiar with the Wall Street regulatory agency&#8217;s business through their work. 

 BODY:
President Obama continued his shake-up of the Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday, naming two Senate aides to senior posts at the Wall Street regulatory agency.
The nominees to the five-member agency are Kara M. Stein, a Democrat, and Michael Piwowar, a Republican. If confirmed by the Senate, they will succeed commissioners whose terms are set to expire. 
 The move comes just months after Mr. Obama named Mary Jo White, a former federal prosecutor turned Wall Street defense lawyer, to be chairwoman of the agency. In recent weeks, Ms. White has started to overhaul the staff, naming co-heads of the agency's enforcement unit, new leaders of other major divisions and her own chief of staff. She also hired a general counsel, Anne K. Small, who rejoined the S.E.C. from the White House.
The transition period has coincided with challenges for the agency, which has fallen far behind its rule-making responsibilities. Nearly three years after Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act, the overhaul of Wall Street regulation, the S.E.C. has carried out only a small fraction of the changes.
The possible arrival of Ms. Stein and Mr. Piwowar could add to some delays as they settle into the agency. Yet the nominees are hardly strangers to the S.E.C.'s business.
Ms. Stein is an aide to Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who is a senior member of the Senate Banking Committee, which oversees the S.E.C. Mr. Piwowar is the committee's Republican chief economist.
In a statement late Thursday, the committee chairman, Tim Johnson, expressed support for both nominees. "I look forward to moving both their nominations forward to ensure the commission continues to operate at full strength," said Mr. Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota.

        
Nominee for S.E.C. Chief Pledges to Keep Focus on Enforcement
        
The Dual Duties of the Next S.E.C. Chief

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%) Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Piwowar, Michael; Securities and Exchange Commission; Stein, Kara; White, Mary Jo; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

ORGANIZATION: Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARY JO WHITE (90%); JACK REED (58%); TIM JOHNSON (58%) White, Mary Jo

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



799 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Debating Doctors' Compensation

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The value that society places of medical services is the best determinant of just pay for doctors, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
Two themes run through the comments on previous blog posts that touched on the payment of the providers of health care. The first is that American doctors are paid too much. The second is that they are paid too little.
Could both propositions be right? Let us explore the issue by looking at some numbers. 
Figure 1, below, presents data on the median compensation reported by the American Medical Group Association for 2011. (The report shows data for many more specialties than can be shown in the chart.)

The American Medical Group Association is the national association of more than 130,000 doctors practicing in large medical specialty groups. Its data are very close to the median compensation data for doctors reported by the professional group-practice administrations represented by the national Medical Group Management Association.
As is regularly reported by the trade journal Modern Healthcare, data on median or average doctors compensation can vary significantly, depending on who does the survey, the sample they survey and the response rates they achieve (you can see this by clicking on the chart to the right of the headline on this page). I personally view the American Group Medical Association and the Medical Group Management Group data as the most reliable.
As we saw in Figure 1, the median compensation of doctors varies considerably among medical specialties in any given year. There is also a wide dispersion of compensation figures about the median for any given specialty, as is shown in Table 1. These data came from the previously cited American Medical Group Association survey.
The dispersion of doctor incomes is apt to be even wider if one includes not only physicians practicing in large medical groups but all practicing doctors.
Depending on their specialty, age, gender, whether they practice individually, in small groups or large groups and, most importantly, where they practice, a good many American doctors - especially primary-care physicians - probably do struggle to meet payroll, other practice costs and malpractice premiums and still have enough net income to support a family. This is especially so because as self-employed business professionals they do not get the fringe benefits available in formal employment in larger firms, and a good number of them have to repay principal and interest on educational debt that now averages $150,000 or so by the time residency training is over.
Over the last decade, the net incomes especially of primary-care doctors have hardly grown at all and even declined somewhat in inflation-adjusted dollars.
On the other hand, we read in the press that medical professionals are well represented in the top 1 percent of income earners in the United States. The ABA Journal of the American Bar Association reports that doctors outrank lawyers in that lofty cohort.
It should be noted, however, that one's income does not have to be astronomical to rank among the top 1 percent of earners. A report on Bankrate.com noted that according to a model run by the Tax Policy Center and the Urban Institute, an income above $533,000 put one into the top 1 percent of earners in 2011.
So, what is one to make of these data on doctor incomes?
Are American doctors overpaid, as is sometimes argued, often with reference to physician incomes in other countries?
Or are American doctors underpaid, as about half of the physicians seem to think?
On this question, one can entertain several theories.
Standard economic theory suggests that over all, American doctors are overpaid, although perhaps not the primary-care specialties. This position leans on the fact that at existing incomes there is still considerable excess demand for places in medical schools among bright American youngsters - not to mention a huge pool of highly qualified foreign applicants. This suggests that the lamented doctor shortage in the United States is the result of an artificially constrained supply of medical school places and residency slots, which serves to inflate physician incomes above what they would be in a better functioning market without supply constraints.
As noted earlier, the idea that American doctors seem overpaid is often supported also with reference to what physicians in other countries are paid. Dana Goldman, an economist at the University of Southern California, for example, was quoted to that effect in an article in The New York Times.
My own view is that if one wants to go down that line of argument, the relevant comparison should not be doctors in other countries, but the incomes earned in the United States by members of the talent pool from which American physicians are recruited, a group that includes many who end up in the superbly well-remunerated financial markets, where they are well paid almost independently of their actual net contribution to society.
This position draws on the comparable-worth theory of compensation.
One can cite work by Christopher Conover of Duke University, who has estimated that the rate of return on the investment in human capital (i.e., education and training) to become a doctor is attractive - especially for the higher-paying medical specialties - but it is not as high as the rate earned on human-capital investments for other professions.
That finding, however, does not speak directly to the issue whether on average American physicians are over- or underpaid.
When in doubt, it may be wise to turn to the father of modern economics, Adam Smith. In "The Wealth of Nations" (published in 1776) he opined in Chapter 10:
We trust our health to the physician; our fortune and sometimes our life and reputation to the lawyer and attorney. Such confidence could not safely be reposed in people of a very mean or low condition. Their reward must be such, therefore, as may give them that rank in the society which so important a trust requires. The long time and the great expense which must be laid out in their education, when combined with this circumstance, necessarily enhance still further the price of their labor.
So when it came to contemplating the payment of doctors, Smith seems to have checked in his favored demand-and-supply framework at the door and slouched toward the medieval doctrine of just price. In my weaker moment, I slouch that way, too, as, I suspect, do many other economists, although my sentiment in this regard stops short of "lawyers and attorneys."

        
More Detail on Top Incomes
        
What Does 'Economic Growth' Mean for Americans?
        
The Changing Face of Community Colleges
        
Patterns of Changes in Health Insurance
        
Q. and A. on the 'Shell Game' of College Aid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (66%) Doctors; Income; Smith, Adam (1723-90); United States; Today's Economist

PERSON: Smith, Adam (1723-90)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013



800 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Do You Plan on Saving Any of Your Belongings for the Future?

BYLINE: MICHAEL GONCHAR


HIGHLIGHT: Why do you plan to save these belongings? Do you hope they will be more valuable in the future, or do you keep them for sentimental reasons? 

 BODY:
 Do you collect autographed baseballs, ticket stubs, funky earrings, classic video games or anything else? Sometimes we decide to hold on to a few objects because we think they will be valuable someday, or because we just can't bear to part with them for sentimental reasons. 
Do you plan on saving any of your belongings for the future?

In "The First Apple, Fetching Prices That May Crash the System," Steve Lohr writes about the astronomical prices that working Apple-1 computers can fetch at auctions these days.
More than a decade ago, at a vintage computer fair in Silicon Valley, Dag Spicer had an opportunity to buy an original Apple-1 for $2,000. He passed. Any regrets? Not really, he said.
"Of course," Mr. Spicer added, "I could have paid off my mortgage now with what it would be worth."
Perhaps so. Last November, an Apple-1 sold for $640,000 at an auction in Germany. That sale surpassed the previous record of $374,500 set only five months earlier at Sotheby's in New York.
The astronomical run-up in the price of the original Apple-1 machines - made in 1976 and priced at $666.66 (about $2,700 in current dollars) - is a story of the economics of scarcity and techno-fetishism, magnified by the mystique surrounding Apple and its founders, as the company has become one of the largest, most profitable corporations in the world. 
 Students: Tell us ...

        
Do you plan on saving any of your belongings for the future? If so, which items?
        
Why do you plan to save them? Do you hope they will become more valuable? Is it for sentimental reasons, or to pass them on to your own children someday?
        
Do you own anything that is rare or a collector's item? 
        
Have you ever spotted a collectible, like an Apple-1, that you wished you could have bought? Explain.
 Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Smartphone Technology Pushes Forward
        
PUB-DATE: May 15, 1911
        
Apple's Tax Strategies Come to Light
        
Connecting the Dots: Mapping Apple's Development and Manufacturing Process
        
Fill-In | Tributes to Steve Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SMARTPHONES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Apple; auction; Student Opinion

COMPANY: APPLE INC (86%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (86%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (86%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

 
