

1 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Gates Orders a Revamping Of the C.I.A.'s File System

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
Robert M. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence, has ordered a sweeping overhaul of how the C.I.A. maintains its vast store of files, Government officials said today.
Mr. Gates's order is a result of the embarrassment suffered by the Central Intelligence Agency over its role in the criminal investigation of an Atlanta branch of an Italian bank. The Justice Department complained in the summer that the nation's prime intelligence and espionage agency failed to submit crucial information in the files about the bank, Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. 
 The C.I.A. said the failure stemmed from an unwieldy system of maintaining its secrets. In October Mr. Gates asked the agency's Office of Inspector General to review how the agency maintains both its computerized and paper files, and his decision to seek changes is in response to that report.
In addition to reporting on the agency's information retrieval systems, Mr. Gates also ordered the Inspector General to review the agency's performance in the criminal investigation of loans made to Iraq by the Atlanta branch of the Italian bank, which has close ties to the Government in Rome.
 
Questions About Reputation
 In a letter to employees of the C.I.A. in October, Mr. Gates lamented that the agency's reputation had been "once more called into question" over the bank fraud case and promised that the two reports would be completed by the end of the year. While the report on the agency's filing system, in which it keeps millions of pieces of information, was completed earlier this month, the companion report on the agency's role in the bank fraud case is not expected to be done for another two weeks, intelligence officials said today.
Specifics of the changes in the agency's information-retrieval systems are secret, the officials said, but the report recommends changes to insure that files are not so hidden from senior officials that they cannot be fully informed when asked for information.
Computer-security experts said the C.I.A.'s system of filing its secrets is so compartmentalized for security's sake that it is often difficult or impossible to track down all relevant information on a subject. At the same time, they said, the complicated system also provides a ready excuse for the agency when its officers want to withhold information.
 
Events Not Clear
 It has never been clear in the banking case, for example, if the agency was unable to locate all the information about the bank or simply declined to provide it to the Justice Department.
The Justice Department last year indicted the manager of the bank's Atlanta branch on charges that he defrauded the headquarters in Rome in approving sizable unsecured loans to Iraq. The indictment followed intense debate between the Justice Department lawyers in Washington and prosecutors in Atlanta over whether the bank's leaders in Rome were aware of the loans to Iraq. Because prosecutors were charging the branch manager, Christopher P. Drogoul, with fraud, it was crucial to know if the Rome officials knew what was happening.
The prosecution fell apart at a tumultuous court hearing in September when the Federal judge in the case, Marvin H. Shoob, allowed Mr. Drogoul to withdraw his guilty plea after the disclosures of how the C.I.A. withheld its information.
The agency often has found itself in the embarrassing position of belatedly finding information relevant to prosecutors and defendants in court cases. During the trial this summer of Clair E. George, a former head of the agency's covert operations branch, the C.I.A. reported on two occasions that it suddenly discovered relevant documents in boxes under some desks. (Mr. George, who was convicted of lying to Congress about the C.I.A.'s role in the Iran-contra affair, was among six officials implicated in the Iran-contra affair who were pardoned last week by President Bush.)
 
Plausible Explanations
 One senior Congressional aide said that the C.I.A.'s claims have a "the dog ate my homework" quality, but are actually quite plausible given the agency's compartmentalized filing system in which some information, like that on covert operations, is stored separately with limited access. Yet it is also true, the aide said, that the complicated filing system provides a cover for the C.I.A. to withhold information.
The C.I.A. currently has more than 10 separate computer information banks and more than a million pieces of paper, intelligence officials said.
Mr. Gates told reporters that when interest in the Italian bank affair first surfaced publicly six months ago, he had more than three dozen agency employees working full time just to gather the information from the C.I.A.'s separate filing spots.
In a sense, the C.I.A. is caught in a clash of cultures in which keeping secrets and making them accessible even to its own officials is inherently a conflict. The agency, with its origins in the pre-computer, paper age, still has tons of written files that have never been put into any information bank.
 
Hard Decisions
 Peter G. Neumann, an independent computer security expert, said intelligence administrators faced a dilemma as to how they want to fashion their computer systems.
One one hand, he said, they could put everything into separate compartments, on data banks that are not allowed to mingle with each other. But that would make for a highly inefficient system in which analysts and case officers are denied knowledge they need, said Mr. Neumann, the principal scientist in the computer science lab of SRI International of Menlo Park, Calif.
The second approach, he said, is to pool all the information and allow access to everybody with a security clearance.
Many of the C.I.A.'s data bases operate independently of the telephone lines or other common carriers and are thus supposedly impervious to penetration from outside. The agency also has always maintained that none of its systems of maintaining classified information are linked with any system containing nonclassified information.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNL (MIL) (57%); BL (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: ROME, GA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (57%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); ROME, GA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GATES, ROBERT M (DIR); LEWIS, NEIL A ROBERT M GATES (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



2 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: German Violence Worries Investors

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BERLIN, Dec. 31

 BODY:
The wave of violence against foreigners in Germany is beginning to affect the economy, scaring away investors and tourists and endangering Berlin's bid to attract the Olympic Games in 2000, business leaders say.
They are urging the Government to take stronger measures to combat the violence, which they say threatens efforts to pull Germany out of its recession. 
 "The spreading anti-foreigner violence is causing greater damage than any of us realize," Michael Fuchs, head of the German Association of Wholesalers and Exporters, told a recent meeting of the group in Bonn.
Another prominent business leader, Tyll Neckar, president of the German Chamber of Industry, told a business audience in Cologne that investors were turning away because they feared the growing violence. "Germany is strongly export-oriented," he said. "The view that Germany is hostile to foreigners can seriously damage our economy."
 
Small Cadres, Big Problems
 Attacks against foreigners and their homes have become almost daily occurrences in Germany. Many have been committed by young people who identify themselves as neo-Nazis.
Much of the violence, particularly in eastern Germany, has been attributed to existing economic problems. If investment and tourism drop substantially because of right-wing violence, Germany could find itself caught in a cycle in which unrest and economic problems reinforce each other.
According to the federal police, there are 6,000 to 7,000 Germans of the far right, a small number compared with the hundreds of thousands who have taken to the streets in recent weeks to repudiate their racist acts. Nonetheless, the violence has tarnished Germany's image in the world.
"The first question every foreign company asks is about hostility toward foreigners," said Walter Rogg, who directs efforts to attract investors to the eastern province of Saxony.
 
Turning Away
 Officials and business executives who until recently sought to play down their concerns are now increasingly speaking out to warn of the potential economic impact of the violence.
In Dresden, the capital of Saxony, officials said that they used to receive an inquiry from a foreign investor about once every 10 days, but that in recent months they have received none at all. Business leaders from Dresden recently announced that they had postponed a visit to the United States in search of investors, concluding that reports of violence here made any successes improbable.
In Brandenburg, the province that surrounds Berlin, at least one foreign company, which an official identified as a United States furniture concern, has withdrawn its offer to build a new factory. Brandenburg's economics minister, Walter Hirsche, said he believed the withdrawal was partly attributable to the recent violence. He also said he had had to face "unfriendly questions" from investors in Japan on a recent visit there.
 
Privatization Slows
 Administrators of Treuhand, the agency responsible for selling thousands of companies once owned by the East German Government, say their ability to attract foreign buyers has been damaged.
Treuhand officials denied recent news reports that two large United States banks had recently dropped plans to invest here, but Birgit Breuel, president of Treuhand, acknowledged that she was "being forced to explain the situation ever more intensively."
The Treuhand representative in Switzerland, Fritz Leutwiler, a former president of the Swiss National Bank, said he was worried that if the violence continued, Treuhand might have trouble raising money in the international market. That would pose a new burden on the economy, because Treuhand is a heavy borrower and expects to run up a deficit of over $150 billion by the time it completes privatization in 1994.
"It's important for Germany to show it can tackle this problem," Mr. Leutwiler said at a recent news conference. "If it can't, then I'd be concerned about the reaction in the very sensitive international markets."
 
Decline in Tourism
 Tourism officials report a decline, attributing it mainly to concern about rightist violence.
Visits by foreign tourists to eastern Germany have fallen by 6 percent to 10 percent from 1991, according to a Dresden-based tourism official, Kathrin Hillig. The greatest decline was among the Japanese, British and Americans, who feel "definitely insecure" about Germany, she said. There has been a smaller but noticeable drop in western Germany.
Among Germany's principal sources of international trade are the hundreds of expositions held here each year. Organizers now fear that exhibitors will drift toward competing events in other countries.
"Expositions in Germany are considered the most important ones in the world," said Claus Borner, director of the association that supervises most of the large expositions. "It is vital that foreigners feel they can rely on good service and a friendly atmosphere."
Many business executives support Berlin's bid to hold the Olympic Games in 2000, but some fear the city's chances are fading. A recent study by Berliner Bank predicted that the Olympics would inject about $3 billion into the German economy.
 
Competing for the Olympics
 The director of Berlin's effort to attract the Olympics, Axel Nawrocki, said questions about Germany's ability to protect foreign athletes and spectators were becoming "steadily more urgent."
"We have to get this situation under control quickly, or we can forget our bid for the Olympics," Mr. Nawrocki said in a television interview last month.
The International Olympic Committee is to choose the site in September; the leading competitors include Beijing, Sydney, Australia, and Manchester, England.
"I'm worried about the ever more pressing questions from my colleagues in the I.O.C. about anti-foreigner sentiment and right-wing radicalism in Germany," wrote Thomas Bach, a German who is a member of the committee, in a newspaper commentary this week. "This climate contradicts the Olympic spirit, since in the Olympic village everyone is a 'foreigner.' "
 
Cultural Erosion
 Even the Goethe Institute, which operates German-language schools and cultural centers around the world, has felt the effect of rightist violence here. The institute's president, Hans Heigert, said last month in his annual report to Parliament that enrollment was dropping because of an "enormous wave of antipathy" toward Germany.
According to Mr. Heigert's report, the Goethe Institute is losing students in Italy, Greece and the United States, and in many Asian countries. In Korea, the number of applicants for language courses reported fell 30 percent in 1992.
Business executives are taking steps to combat these trends.
Large companies like Porsche and public employers like the Frankfurt Airport Authority have announced that they will discipline or dismiss workers who speak against foreigners or are implicated in attacks.
In a joint statement last week, owners of large textile firms and leaders of textile trade unions said they would not tolerate actions against foreigners.
"We are in full agreement that the work environment is intolerably disturbed by employees who foment hatred of foreigners or participate in violence," the statement said. "We will separate ourselves from such employees."
 
'Each of Us Must Play a Part'
 Backers of Berlin's Olympic bid are distributing leaflets warning that the city "can only hope to tackle the tasks of the future through openness and through support of its multicultural lifestyle."
"In recent weeks, a small but dangerous group of extremists have launched cowardly attacks on asylum-seekers and other minorities in this country, injuring individuals and attacking property," the leaflets say. "The full power of the law must be applied against those who instigate and participate in such abominable crimes and senseless aggression. However, it is not sufficient simply to rely on others to solve the problem. Each one of us must play a part by standing up for human rights and speaking out for justice."
Edzard Reuter, the chairman of Daimler-Benz and perhaps the most powerful and widely respected businessman in Germany, sent a letter to his employees this month calling on them to do everything possible "to nip this evil in the bud."
"Criminal fanatics in our country want to get rid of foreigners," Mr. Reuter wrote. "They are not even stopping at murder. This ought to be a cause for serious alarm to everyone in Germany.
"Particularly when the signs of the times point to crisis because of the global recession, which is also hitting us in full force, irrational behavior and violence must not be allowed to take over. Tolerance and cosmopolitanism are the orders of the day."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: SACHSEN, GERMANY (92%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); JAPAN (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (92%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); POLITICS (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN MICHAEL J FUCHS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



3 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Now Bowing Out, a Busy, Busy Bush

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
After 1,450 seamless days of state dinners, brush-fire wars, telephone diplomacy and global jet excursions, George Bush's Presidency is now rapidly winding down. The same cannot be said of George Bush.
Just 20 days remain until Bill Clinton takes the inaugural oath and his Oval Office desk, a period at which most lame ducks have stopped governing and begun untangling their fishing reels. 
 Mr. Bush is overseas, meeting with Arabian royalty and spending the holiday with American troops, in the style of his 1990 Thanksgiving visit to Saudi Arabia before the Persian Gulf war. On Saturday he is to fly to the Kremlin for a summit meeting with Boris N. Yeltsin, much as he did 18 months ago with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
 
Farewell Speech Weighed
 He is handing out medals and promotions with some abandon. He is working the phones to rally global support for new action against Serbia. Aides say he is mulling an Eisenhower-style farewell speech, perhaps for a television broadcast, and even considered -- briefly -- a State of the Union speech next month, just as if he were starting a second term.
Mr. Clinton has seen to that. But Mr. Bush is the Timex President: having taken a licking, he is still ticking, with no clear indication of stopping anytime soon.
One associate said: "The chance of accomplishing some substantive things before he goes out has energized him. He sees the possibility of leaving his successor a much better situation than he found when he came in in 1989."
The President's burst of activity can also be viewed more skeptically, as a final attempt by a proud and self-conscious leader to restore a gloss to his Presidency that economic hard times and his humbling election defeat have diminished.
At the urging of friends and advisers, Mr. Bush tried his hand at history writing two weeks ago, delivering a foreign-policy speech in Texas that effectively defended his strategy of projecting American political power -- and military force -- into the world's trouble spots.
Even some friends conclude that his overseas trip this weekend, however justified by events, was intended to remind the public of his Presidency's greatest triumphs on the battlefield and at cold-war negotiating tables.
"It's a victory lap," one said. "You go to the places that are winners. You don't see him going to Bosnia, do you?"
Whatever his motives, Mr. Bush's activity stands in sharp contrast to the rest of the White House, which that same associate described as "on auto-pilot, with most of the staff looking for jobs, a diminishing number coming to work, fewer cars parked on West Executive Avenue" next to the White House, "and those that are there arriving later every morning."
With no more budgets to prepare and no legislation to package, the Administration is reduced largely to handling foreign policy and its own public relations, and those offices have been the only busy ones at the White House during the holidays.
Mr. Bush himself seemed on auto-pilot barely a month ago. Shrouded in gloom after his defeat, he took secluded vacations, complained publicly about his irrelevance and seemed to grant Mr. Clinton early possession of the trappings of Presidential pomp and importance.
Time and some frank discussions in mid-November with advisers, who warned that he was endangering his public image and possibly his legacy, seem to have given Mr. Bush some perspective on his loss. Several aides also said Mr. Bush was roused by the need to deal with crises in Somalia and Bosnia, and the prospect that his Administration's signal accomplishment -- a treaty to reduce Russian and American nuclear stockpiles by two-thirds -- would collapse amid bickering over details.
With a lot to do and little time in which to do it, Mr. Bush became his old frenetic self, aides say, and he began serious work to make the last days of his term both more productive and more upbeat.
"He's enjoying his days," one aide said. "He's trying to do some things that he didn't have either the chance or the freedom to do during the campaign," when every act was seen through a political filter. It is a change, aides say, that has manifested itself in ways large and small.
Behind headline-making acts like foreign trips and military mobilizations, Mr. Bush has taken on the role of White House and Republican Party morale officer. Early in December he set aside an hour or so daily to invite employees and their families to the Oval Office, where he chatted while White House photographers snapped photos that Mr. Bush would later autograph and present as gifts. Next month he is to be host at a series of White House meetings with major groups of Republican financial supporters.
 
Coveted Promotions
 And he has rewarded some loyal aides with appointments that carry more symbolism than power, but are coveted nonetheless. At the suggestion of friends, he elevated Lawrence S. Eagleburger to Secretary of State, removing the "Acting" from his title by making a formal appointment while Congress was in recess, and assuring Mr. Eagleburger a more prominent place in history books.
He did the same for Sean O'Keefe, an acting Navy Secretary, who now will occupy that post for the second briefest stretch of time in military history. (The briefest occupant, described by a Pentagon spokesman as "the hapless Thomas W. Gilmer," served from Feb. 19 to 25, 1844.)
And he has dispensed favors and awards to a curious mix of personalities, some of whom were utterly unaware of Mr. Bush's fondness for them.
Two comedians who are Bush favorites, Dana Carvey and Johnny Carson, were rewarded this month with invitations to become overnight guests at the White House. Mr. Carson was granted the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, given so far to 301 people "who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace or to cultural or other significant public and private endeavors."
Among others who met that standard, and were awarded medals on Dec. 11, were Richard Petty, the retired stock-car driver who campaigned with Mr. Bush this fall; Ella Fitzgerald and Isaac Stern, who have performed at state dinners; Harry W. Shlaudeman, the diplomat; the journalist David Brinkley and the architect I. M. Pei.
 
Major Speech Planned
 To close out his term, aides say, the President is planning at least one more major speech reflecting on his years in public life, probably for delivery at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md.
Aides have suggested that he return to Congress for a final State of the Union Message or a farewell speech, adding that he could diminish any aura of grandstanding by inviting President-elect Clinton and his Cabinet to attend. But Mr. Bush is said to have emphatically rejected the idea.
Several aides, including his friend and chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, are said to still be urging a more visible address on national television, but the President is said to favor a more muted approach to his last days in office.
The symbolic end to Mr. Bush's Presidency is likely to precede the official end by about a week. On Jan. 13, the President will escort his predecessor, Ronald Reagan, into the White House East Room and present him with the same Medal of Freedom granted Mr. Carson, Mr. Petty and others.
With the help of Mr. Reagan's old team of public-relations aides, who have assembled a glittering audience for the presentation, "it's turning out to be quite an event," a White House aide said today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GULF STATES (57%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



4 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: Economic Pulse: The Washington Region;
Once-Booming Megalopolis Is Struggling With Harder Times

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEVERN, Md., Dec. 31

 BODY:
At first glance, it could be the good old days all over again, just the way things were a couple of years back, before the recession hit this little rural patch sandwiched between the suburbs of Baltimore and Washington.
Bulldozers are ripping out lots for new subdivisions. Concrete trucks are pouring foundations. Carpenters are hammering together wall frames, and the signs pounded into the raw earth in front of the new houses read, "Sold . . . Sold . . . Sold." 
 But while the signs may suggest some economic rejuvenation in this town 25 miles northeast of Washington, there is concern that the post-recession pace here and elsewhere in the heavily urbanized "Chesapeake Crescent" that stretches from Baltimore to Norfolk will never equal the raging boom of the 1980's, when it became one of the country's major megalopolises.
During that decade, the population grew at twice the national rate, to nine million people, driven more than anything else by growth in the Federal Government and in the industries that grew up around it. In the mid-1980's, for example, unemployment rates fell below 2 percent in the Virginia suburbs outside Washington, a level that labor experts say represented little more than people in the midst of changing jobs rather than people out of work.
In the Washington area per-capita income topped out at $26,000 in the mid-1980's, almost 50 percent more than the national average. Some residential and commercial real estate markets, especially those in and around Washington, heated up so much that the values of many homes jumped 30 percent or more in a single year and suburban wooded plots became condominium developments.
 
Sobering Changes In Area's Economy
 Today, battered by job layoffs, bankruptcies and general economic malaise, many of the region's residents are for the first time mulling the possibility that the soaring prosperity of the 1980's was a once-in-a-lifetime phenomenon. Increasingly they see the boom as having been sustained by real estate speculation, undisciplined consumer spending and unbridled growth in Federal spending on the region's heavy concentration of Government agencies, workers and military installations.
"It'll be a long time, if ever, before we see the likes of the 80's again in this region," says Steve Fuller, an urban planning consultant in Washington who specializes in economic and development trends in the region. "This recession has been the most sobering economic readjustment for this part of the country since the Great Depression."
This is a new kind of talk in a region whose 16 percent population growth in the 1980's left it ranking third in the nation in population, employment and retail sales, behind only the metropolitan areas of New York and Los Angeles.
No one thinks mortal economic danger now threatens the Crescent, as some have come to call the 250-mile-long megalopolis, which is centered on Washington and complete with cities bumping against one another, 30-mile strings of suburbs and hourlong rail commutes to work.
But the recession has left many of the region's once high-flying real estate speculators bankrupt, their subdivisions half finished, their office towers vacant. Many of the region's shop-till-you-drop baby boomers are deeply in debt, out of work and standing in long lines to apply for jobs. And while many here believe that the incoming Clinton Administration will continue and even increase some Federal expenditures, many agencies' budgets are likely to be cut severely, especially the mainstay military outlays.
The houses being built here are selling for less than $200,000, about half what many were bringing before the recession, and many businesses, including banks and retailers, are reshaping operations to reduce expenses.
Before the recession, for example, one of every five tellers at Crestar Bank, a Richmond-based regional financial institution, worked part time. Now that figure is almost one in three. The blunt rationale is that part-timers are less costly because most get no health or retirement benefits.
In Baltimore, Polk Audio, a manufacturer of stereo speakers, says it was forced to revise its business to handle cheaper lines, some as inexpensive as $200 a pair. In the 1980's, the company was selling speakers for $3,500 a pair as fast as it could make them.
 
Blurred Boundaries Form Megalopolis
 During the booming 1980's, the suburbs spilling north out of Washington and south out of Baltimore quickly collided, and the suburbs spilling south from Washington began to bump up against those creeping north from Fredericksburg, 50 miles away. A Fredericksburg-Washington commuter train line opened several months ago, helping to bind the megalopolis.
Farther down the region, Richmond stretched north almost to Ashland and south almost to Petersburg, while Norfolk became the center of a large urban area stretching from Virginia Beach almost up to Williamsburg.
The region has become so densely populated that the Federal Office of Management and Budget notified officials in Baltimore and Washington earlier this year that for statistical purposes it would view the region that stretches more than 100 miles from near the Pennsylvania border north of Baltimore south through Washington to Fredericksburg as a single urban entity. The western edge of that corridor extends into West Virginia.
As the population density has increased, social and economic links within the region have also grown. For example, in Severn and nearby towns residents may work in Washington, shop at a Severn mall and go to Baltimore for dining or entertainment. Federal transportation experts say the traffic jams now found in the Washington-Baltimore area rival some of the worst found in New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.
William F. Treacy, an economist, comes from one of those in-between towns, Burtonsville, Md. For many years he worked at a Baltimore bank but recently switched to a job with the Federal Reserve Bank in Washington.
"It's now just all one big region to me," he says. "The cities are different in lifestyles and tone, and that's the way I use them. And with the road and rail networks now available, it's easy to go either way."
 
Economy Tied To Federal Budgets
 Still, the dominant mood in the region is sober -- even in the Washington area, once thought to be recession-proof thanks to the Federal government. There is little expectation that the new Administration's faces and policies will recreate the conditions that led to the boom of the 1980's.
Only 18,000 new jobs were created in the Washington area during the first nine months of 1992, about one-third the yearly growth during the boom period.
There has been less unemployment in most parts of the region during the recession than elsewhere in the country. As of September, unemployment was running from a high of 7.6 percent in the Baltimore area to 5.1 percent in metropolitan Washington, compared with 7.2 percent nationally. Nevertheless, the region has suffered.
Richmond, a city whose diverse economy has cushioned the pain of earlier downturns, has just recorded the worst job loss of any metropolitan area in the state -- a 1.7 percent drop between September 1991 and September 1992, more than triple the loss in the state as a whole. Its unemployment rate now stands at 6.3 percent.
Any analysis of what drives the region's economy comes down to Federal money. During the last decade, according to the most recent surveys available, total Federal spending in the region increased more than 50 percent, reaching nearly $75 billion a year. In contrast, total Federal expenditures in New York City at the end of the decade were about $65 billion and slightly more than $50 billion in Los Angeles.
Some studies indicate that Federal spending and the buying and hiring they generate now account for two-thirds of the economy in the metropolitan Washington area and spill over to other parts of the megalopolis.
"Last year, right in the middle of a recession, the U.S. Government spent over $47 billion in all in the greater Washington area, 11 percent more than in 1990," says Philip M. Dearborn, who recently took a close look at Federal spending in the region for the Greater Washington Research Center. "In Baltimore and Norfolk the increase wasn't as sharp, but the overall expenditure still came to more than $23 billion, which means the Government poured more than $70 billion into the region in a single year, just counting three of its major cities."
 
Relative Wealth And Revised Hopes
 This Federal largess produced an average per-capita income throughout most of the region that easily topped the national average of $18,600. In the Washington area, where almost half the region's population lives, per-capita income has hit $26,000.
Even so, the recession hit hard, and many businesses that survived the downturn did so by making hard choices.
"We're coming out of it, but there are changes in the marketplace and in consumer patterns that will keep us from climbing back to where we were," says Alan M. Gayle, chief economist for Crestar Bank. "These changes are nobody's fault in a larger sense. They relate to competition and demographics and cutbacks in Government activity."
Matthew S. Polk, the chairman of Polk Audio, says he expects the 1990's to be a good decade. But he says he believes the voracious consumption of the past decade will not recur in the foreseeable future, because the baby boomers who accounted for much of it have satisfied many material desires and now face new responsibilities, like large mortgages and steep college tuitions. They have also been brought down to earth by unemployment, bankruptcies and a leveling of salaries, he said.
Here in Severn, the reformation of the housing market has resulted in construction of homes that are much more modest than those completed before the recession.
"Today's home buyers are looking for housing, not an investment," says Robert M. Lefenfeld, a housing specialist for the Legg Mason Realty Group in Baltimore. "When they buy now, they're buying no more than they need, with few frills."
Among recent home purchasers here is Mitch Everton, a 33-year-old intelligence specialist for the Defense Department. He had been looking for a new house for a number of years but waited until the recession drove down prices and interest rates.
"They were offering the right place at the right price at the right time," he says. "I wanted it simple. They said they had just the right new design and that they'd throw in some extras that I'd never otherwise have ordered, like an extra fireplace. I bought."
But when it comes to commercial real estate, hardly anybody is buying, renting or building in the region.
In downtown Baltimore and in the Northern Virginia suburbs across the Potomac River from Washington, pre-recession speculation in commercial buildings was white hot. Today, there is a huge surplus of commercial space.
But there is at least one bright spot. Even in hard times, the Federal Government and the lawyers and lobbyists who must deal with it require offices close to the White House, the Capitol and the major agencies. As a result, demand for commercial realty has been brisk in the Pennsylvania Avenue area throughout the recession, and it may pick up in the Clinton Administration.
In fact, throughout the recession office rents in downtown Washington have continued to rise, and that area now has the highest average office rents in the country -- $38 a square foot.

GRAPHIC: Photo: While there are signs of economic rejuvenation in the suburbs between Baltimore and Washington, the area hasn't regained the boom status that raged there in the 1980's. Construction workers poured foundation supports yesterday for a home under construction in Severn, Md. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "West of the Chesapeake Bay" shows economic statistics for the area surrounding the Chesapeake Bay. (Sources: Washington/Baltimore Regional Association, Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARYLAND; VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); TRENDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); URBANIZATION (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); LAYOFFS (66%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



5 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: A Single Market for Consumers Takes Effect Today in Europe

 BODY:
Today is the day a single market goes into effect in Western Europe, linking 345 million people in the 12 nations of the European Community by eliminating tariff and customs barriers. Most steps to reach this goal have been taken gradually over the past five years, so it will be hard for most people to tell what has changed, and indeed, much has not changed. Despite a European Parliament and an executive commission in Brussels, there is nothing resembling a European federal government, and a "United States of Europe" still seems a long way off.
 
 
What's Good for Business
 The big benefit is to business. Companies licensed to produce or sell financial services in one country can now do so in all the others; public-works contracts are to be offered to bidders in all countries, not just domestically. But whether this works in practice remains to be seen. 
 In the long run the absence of trade barriers should make European industries more competitive with rivals in North America and Asia; for consumers, increased competition among companies within Europe should lead to lower prices.
But the prospect of a boom seems dim: Britain has been in a recession since 1989 and Germany is entering one, and most of the rest of Europe is just holding its own.
Companies may now ship goods to other nations without time-consuming and costly border checks, and they can shift money from one country to another with little difficulty, providing financial flexibility and making it easier to treat Europe as a single market. But some nations still have restrictions on moving money.
Citizens of each of the 12 nations may purchase goods in other nations without having to pay export or import duties, within certain limits and as long as the goods are for personal use. This will increase cross-border shopping by consumers seeking bargains arising from different levels of domestic taxation or varying prices, but the same factors of distance, travel and so on that inhibit New York City customers from shopping in, say South Carolina, come into play, with the added complication of currency exchange fees. Most countries have guidelines for what constitutes personal use -- Britain puts the limit for wine at 144 bottles per trip -- but even those rules will be sparingly applied.
 
Standards Are Not Standard
 National regulatory restrictions remain on industries like airlines and telecommunications, limiting competition and keeping prices higher than they might be.
Some restrictions will be eliminated in coming years. Airlines, for example, will gain new freedom to operate across Europe in 1997.
The community has made considerable progress in harmonizing regulatory and safety standards. But it has not fully achieved its goal of allowing all products that can be legally sold in one nation to be sold in another. An automobile that meets emissions and safety requirements in one nation can be automatically registered in any other, though some changes may have to be made promptly to meet local requirements; vastly different rules apply, however, to sales of prescription drugs, for example.
 
Money Talks in Many Tongues
 There is no single European currency, nor any realistic prospect of one before the end of the century, if at all. There is an agreement on currency, the 1991 Treaty on European Political and Monetary Union, but it has not yet been ratified by Denmark and Britain.
Though corporate money can flow much more freely across borders, currency transfers by individuals are still cumbersome. Changing French francs into Belgian francs, guilders into marks, lire into drachmas, each transaction carries a fee. If a traveler went from one to another of all 12 countries and changed currencies in each one, the exchange fees would eat up the entire initial travel budget.
Citizens of one nation may open bank accounts and borrow from financial institutions in others, something that has not always been possible until now. But this procedure will be limited in Portugal and Greece for several years.
 
Passport, Passeport, Reisepass
 Passport checks will continue in most places for travelers arriving by air, because converting airports is complicated and expensive. Britain, Ireland, Denmark and Greece will also continue spot checks of European Community passports when travelers arrive, to prevent third-country stowaways.
All 12 nations retain normal passport controls on travelers arriving from outside the community. But once within the community, passport checks will be less rigorous than in the past, especially for road and rail travelers.
 
Travelers Stay Unplugged
 A traveler with an electric hair dryer or razor will continue to have problems -- not with voltage, which is basically 220 volts almost everywhere, but with plugs. In Britain they're three-pronged. In Germany, France, Italy and Spain, they're two-pronged. But German prongs are thicker than those in France, Italy, or Spain, so they won't fit.
Telephones and modems used to link computers remain much different from one country to another.
Nor is there a unified system of long-distance telephone codes, emergency or information numbers in Europe.
There are national codes -- Britain is 44, Germany is 49. But to dial Germany from Britain, the code is 01-049; to dial from Germany to Britain, it's 00-44.
 
Homes Away From Home
 Every citizen of a common market nation has the right to move to any of the others, provided this does not cause a financial drain on the new place of residence.
Thus, workers from Spain can apply for jobs in Stuttgart and move to Germany if they get jobs, which they have been able to do for some time. But they cannot move first and then collect unemployment benefits from Germany if they cannot find work.
Doctors licensed by one nation will be able to practice in another, as will most other professionals. But there are catches that make setting up business in another country difficult, or that reduce the potential for increased competition and lower prices for consumers. An architect seeking to practice in Spain, for example, must join a professional association that sets minimum fees.
Retired people may more from one country to another and collect their pensions; they are also expected to keep their medical benefits.
But mass migrations are not expected, mainly because of cultural and language difficulties.
 
Where the Tax Gaps Remain
 While almost all customs duties and other barriers will be eliminated as of today, excise taxes and differences in sales taxes remain, just as they do within the United States.
The value-added tax, or VAT, effectively a sales tax on almost all goods and services, varied from 19.5 percent in Belgium to 13 percent in Spain. As of today, the minimum basic rate is 15 percent, but the rates still vary from Belgium's 19.5 percent (and over 20 percent on some items in Denmark and Ireland) to 15 percent in Germany, Spain and Luxembourg.
Countries may levy a higher VAT on luxury goods and a lower one or none at all on a few necessities.
Excise taxes also continue to vary. In Denmark, for instance, a luxury tax triples the cost of automobiles. Taxes on alcohol are relatively low in Greece and Italy, high in Denmark.
Duty-free shops will remain. Eventually the community hopes to eliminate the need for them by harmonizing the level of duties on all products within each country, but that is not likely to be complete for years.
For travelers within the European Community, the volume of duty-free items will now effectively be doubled, since one lot of goods may be bought on the journey to another nation and another lot on the way home. (Limits on duty-free purchases will not change for travelers to and from other nations, including the United States.)
Automobiles remain a nightmare. In theory a car can be bought cheap in France and taken to Britain, but in practice there is an enormous amount of paperwork, the headlights have to be changed to white from yellow and the buyer must meet a host of other British requirements.
Britain also still requires a six-month quarantine for animals, which the continental nations do not.

GRAPHIC: Map of Europe showing members of the European Community

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY WESTERN EUROPE (73%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); RECESSION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); TRENDS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



6 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
It was a mixed year for many parts of Wall Street, with the mergers meager and the Dow Jones dowdy. But in the classic business of raising capital for corporations, the underwritings set another record as companies replaced high-interest debt they accumulated in the 1980's with lower-rate debt and equity. [D1.]
On overseas exchanges, "it was an entirely forgettable year," said one analyst, reflecting the view of many. True, there was money made on some stocks abroad. But the gains were confined to small markets whose currencies were either tied to the dollar or at least not tied to the German mark. For the third straight year, staying home turned out to be the best bet. [D1.] 
 The Nasdaq average marched to a third straight daily record, while the Dow fell under a last-minute barrage of program trading. The Nasdaq composite index of over-the-counter stocks was up 5.10 points, to 676.95. The Dow Jones industrial average, ahead several points with a half-hour to go, suddenly plunged about 25 points to close down 19.99 for the day, to 3301.11. [D2.]
Treasury bond prices sank in quiet, abbreviated trading. Analysts attributed the decline to a larger-than-expected drop in weekly unemployment claims and to traders' cashing in their year-end profits. [D9.]
Prices of cattle futures surged on forecasts of weekend snow in the Great Plains. Heating oil led energy futures lower after the American Petroleum Institute estimated an increase in United States supplies. [D10.]
The dollar ended the day mixed on world financial markets, in thin trading. Gold prices were mostly lower. [D10.]
 
The Economy
First-time unemployment claims tumbled 28,000, driving the four-week average to the lowest point since late 1989, the Labor Department reported, a sign that the economy's growing strength is spreading to the job market. A separate report indicated that factory orders climbed five-tenths of 1 percent in November, excluding transportation equipment. [D1.]
 
Companies
A judge explained her rejection of Zenith's Air Force contract, saying the $740 million worth of computers would have contained too many imported parts. [D1.]
Charter Medical settled with the Attorney General of Texas, agreeing to pay $550,000, to provide $1.6 million of charitable mental health services and to refrain from practices that had drawn a state investigation. [D3.]
A realty bonanza appears unlikely for Catellus Development, the company formed with fanfare when Santa Fe Pacific spun off real estate holdings two years ago. Catellus's stock has been limping near a 52-week low. [D3.]
A gadget market founded by Fuji Photo is booming in Japan: disposable cameras. Snap-happy Japanese consumers are rejecting their sophisticated, expensive equipment in favor of the throwaways. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GREAT PLAINS NATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MERGERS (89%); FUTURES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); BONDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); HEATING OIL (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); GOLD MARKETS (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); GERMAN MARK (70%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (51%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); AIR FORCES (50%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



7 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Another Record Year for Wall St. Underwriters

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
The mergers were meager; the Dow Jones was dowdy; the trading was treacherous. It was a mixed year for many parts of Wall Street. Yet in its classic business of raising capital for companies, the underwritings were unbelievable.
Corporations sold a record $584.3 billion of securities in the United States' public markets in 1991. And to Wall Street's surprise, the total for 1992 increased 45 percent, with $744.4 billion in debt and $101.6 billion in equity, according to data provided by the Securities Data Corporation. 
 With the economy limping along, corporations were generally not raising money to finance new investments. Rather, they were replacing high-interest debt they accumulated in the 1980's with lower-rate debt and equity. More than a third of the bond issuers were simply corporations calling existing bonds and issuing new ones at lower interest rates, investment bankers said.
Conglomerates and leveraged-buyout firms that wanted to sell business units found the most eager buyers were in the public new-issue market, since corporations were loath to commit themselves to new acquisitions. At the same time, falling short-term rates encouraged both institutional and individual investors to search for more attractive opportunities like longer-term bonds, new stock issues and convertible securities. Investors poured more than $68 billion into equity mutual funds in the first 11 months of the year, and much of that wound up buying new issues.
"Mutual funds have driven the new-issue market this year," compared with previous years when there was a broader range of buyers, said Vikram S. Pandid, head of the equity syndicate desk at Morgan Stanley. "On most deals, 7 of the top 10 buyers were funds."
 For all the rosy totals, it was in fact a rocky year for both the equity and debt markets. The initial public offering market sizzled in the early part of the year, then screeched abruptly to a halt in the summer as investors balked at what they saw as overpriced deals of marginal quality. In the last few months, however, investors were again buying new issues, although at lower prices.
Similarly, after starting out the year with a boom, corporate bond issuance began to slow as interest rates paid to investors moved closer to Treasury issues of similar maturities. "There was turmoil in the market, and in October investors called a timeout," said Edson V. Mitchell, head of debt financing for Merrill Lynch.
In recent weeks, new issues have resumed after spreads widened somewhat.
To many investment bankers, one of the biggest surprises of the year was how easily the market absorbed huge issues. There were more than 25 debt and equity issues that each raised more than $1 billion in United States markets, including a number of exotic offerings that cannot be classified as either stocks or bonds.
 General Motors, despite its persistent losses and management turmoil, sold $1.56 billion of common stock in the United States in May as part of a $2.15 billion global issue, the largest common stock issue ever by an American company. And the Chemical Banking Corporation raised $1.23 billion in common stock after its merger with the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation.
The largest debt deals were bonds representing pools of credit card and auto loans, in which payments flow through to bondholders. Over all, however, issuance of these asset-backed securities was flat last year because banks were less willing to sell off loans with new lending opportunities scarce. As home owners continued to refinance mortgages, issuance of mortgage-backed securities shot up 51 percent, to $377.3 billion.
Among the most pronounced shifts last year, the junk bond market finally began to recover from the trauma of Drexel Burnham Lambert's 1990 collapse. Investors bought 232 junk issues last year for a total of $38 billion, more than three times the amount raised the previous year.
"There has been a convergence between the high-yield and the investment-grade markets in the types of buyers, the issuers and the way deals are done," said Mr. Mitchell of Merrill Lynch. "It used to be two separate markets, but it's becoming a single corporate bond market."
 
 
Merrill Leads Again
 Merrill Lynch was again the leading underwriter of all types of securities, managing the issuance of $140 billion of domestic issues, 16.5 percent of the total. Goldman, Sachs was second, followed in the same order as in 1991 by Lehman Brothers, First Boston and Kidder, Peabody.
Merrill continued to dominate all categories of debt except mortgage-backed and asset-backed issues, in which Kidder was the leading underwriter. Merrill also captured first place last year in the common-stock category from Goldman.
Salomon Brothers, which fell precipitously in the 1991 rankings in the wake of a Treasury bond auction scandal, edged up slightly last year, finishing in sixth place over all, up from seventh.
The new-issue boom was largely centered in the United States. Issuance of international debt and equity -- that is, deals outside of the United States involving issuers and investors in more than one country -- rose slightly, to $282 billion. As interest rates come down, investment bankers expect that some of the same trends that moved money into the capital markets in the United States will take hold in Europe.
As for the American market, most of the trends that caused last year's boom in new issues are likely to remain in place, at least for a few months, bankers said, but they remain cautious. "By historical standards, this year will be above average," said Thomas W. Davis, head of equity capital markets at Merrill Lynch. But, he added, "I would be surprised if it is as strong as 1992."

GRAPHIC: Charts: "The Largest Corporate Issues in 1992" shows the five largest common stock offerings in '92 (Source: Securities Data Company); "Types of Securities" shows sources of all U.S. domestic corporate financing in '92

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CORPORATIONS; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (91%); MERGERS (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BOND ISSUES (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); SYNDICATED LOANS (76%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



8 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: A Disappointing 1992 for Many Global Investors

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
For most international investors, particularly those who placed their money in big, liquid foreign stock markets, 1992 promised much more than it delivered. For the third straight year, home -- not East or West -- was mostly best for American investors.
Money was made overseas, of course, but the gains were confined to small markets whose currencies were either tied to the dollar, like Mexico's, or not tied to the German mark, like Switzerland's. 
 "For most, it was an entirely forgettable year," said Jeffrey Russell, a manager of Smith Barney, Harris Upham's World Funds International Equity portfolio. "Economic conditions were difficult in many countries, European growth decelerated and in many parts of the world interest rates were extraordinarily high."
 
Greater Expectations
 Expectations were much different 12 months ago.
Nineteen ninety-two was to be the Year of Europe, of vigorous growth in Japan and a building recovery in the United States.
But the Danes, then the British, torpedoed Europe's timetable, with help from the Bundesbank in Germany, whose tight monetary policies and high interest rates caused pain across the Continent. Japan's economy, rather than growing, started to crack. And proof of America's recovery, such as it is, failed to materialize until late in the year.
With the exception of stocks in the United States, share prices were preyed upon by these various international woes.
Excluding the exchanges in the United States, prices on world stock markets fell by more than 15 percent in dollar terms last year, according to the world index of The Financial Times of London. In America, where equity investors took some comfort from steady declines in interest rates during the year, stock prices rose by 4.83 percent, according to The Financial Times.
"It was the year of the false dawn," said Marcus Grubb, an international equity strategist at Salomon Brothers in London. "But it was not until May that the season of hope ended and the season of reality began."
It was in May that Danish voters upset Europe's ambitious plans for monetary and economic unification by delivering a stunning "no" vote to the Maastricht treaty, the first in a chain of events that culminated in late September, when the British Government jolted international financial markets by pulling the pound out of the European Monetary System.
That decision gave the Bank of England latitude to push down interest rates, and in the fourth quarter British stock prices reacted favorably, rising by more than 12 percent in local currency. But the good news in the City of London was decidedly less than that for dollar-based investors in British stocks. Because of the sharp fourth-quarter rally in the dollar's value against the pound, those local currency gains turned into a decline of roughly 4.2 percent when share values were translated into dollars.
"I would be very confident the rest of the world will outperform the United States in 1993 but for two reasons," said David Testa, chairman of the T. Rowe Price International Stock Fund. "One is the dollar, and whether or not it is likely to get even stronger. The other is Japan, which we think is likely to remain troubled for much of the year."
 
Japan's 3-Year Slide
 The world's most highly capitalized stock market in 1989, the Tokyo exchange has had a disastrous performance ever since. Japanese stocks fell 22.67 percent last year in dollar terms, the third straight year of decline.
"Nobody expected that the slowdown in the Japanese economy would be as great as it was," said Sander Cseh, president of Cseh International, a Berwyn, Pa., money management firm.
Japan's problems were of little concern to investors in Hong Kong, whose market produced the world's highest return in 1992 -- 25.63 percent in dollar terms -- or in Malaysia, which placed second, with 22.07 percent.
"Hong Kong combines the attractive aspects of relatively inexpensive multiples, decent dividend yields and strongly growing corporate earnings," said Mr. Russell of Smith Barney. "When we look around, we keep coming back to Hong Kong."
Investors came back to Mexico in droves in the fourth quarter, as objections to the North American Free Trade Act were muted and President-elect Bill Clinton gave the treaty a qualified endorsement.
Mexican stocks rose by more than 34 percent in the final three months of 1992, in dollar terms. That gain reversed a tailspin earlier in the year, and left Mexico's market 18.45 percent higher for all of 1992.
 
Wait Until This Year
 Peering into the new year, analysts seem confident the expectations that did not play out in 1992 will be realized over the next 12 months.
This year, "predictions of recovery will begin to come true," Mr. Grubb at Salomon said. "We are going to see a proper recovery in the United States and a recovery of sorts in Britain. Germany will be in recession, but we think that German rates will get cut in the first quarter of the year."
Lower German interest rates would be a big help to countries whose currencies remain in the European Monetary System, especially France.
French stock prices fell by more than 8 percent in dollar terms last year, but portfolio managers said prices on the Paris Bourse could improve considerably after a cut in German rates, which would allow the French to lower their own.
And Mr. Testa's reservations notwithstanding, some analysts said they were optimistic about Japan's prospects for the new year.
"I feel relatively good about Japan," said John R. Hickling, who manages the International Growth and Income Fund at Fidelity Investments. "There will be more bad news there because corporate profits will take some more hits and there are still problems with real estate. But I think we have crossed a subtle psychological line where bad news becomes good news."
As bad as Japan's performance was in 1992, stock markets in some other countries fared worse.
South African shares were the biggest losers, dropping by more than 40 percent in dollar terms. And Denmark, the country that by a narrow margin said it did not want Maastricht's version of the European dream, saw its share prices fall by more than 30 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "How World Stock Markets Fared in 1992" shows percentage changes in Financial Times-Actuaries world indexes of market performance from 12/31/91 to 12/31/92 in the U.S., Japan, Hong Kong, Mexico, Britain, Germany, France and Denmark (Sources: Datastream; Goldman, Sachs & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (91%); DENMARK (90%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); NETHERLANDS (76%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (91%); DENMARK (90%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); NETHERLANDS (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY TWO; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); GERMAN MARK (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ANDREW SMITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



9 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A Railroad's Legacy: Land Rich and Cash Poor

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

 BODY:
In the 1860's, the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railroad Company, which had gorged on Federal land grants, was particularly aggressive -- and fanciful -- in marketing land abutting its line. One advertisement likened land along the Santa Fe Trail to a tropical banana tree, "known by its fruits."
More people settled the West between 1879 and 1900 than in the previous two and a half centuries, and this lure was certainly a factor. But for the modern company that inherited much of the railroad's land, even a modest real estate bonanza appears, for now, unlikely.
 
Good Market Gone Bad
 Tight credit, wary purchasers and anemic land values have combined to constrain the ambitions of the San Francisco-based Catellus Development Corporation, formed with fanfare two years ago when the Santa Fe Pacific Corporation spun off some realty holdings. Its stock has been limping along on the New York Stock Exchange near a 52-week low of $6.125, closing the year at $6.625. 
 Having moved to conserve cash and limit development risks, Catellus now faces a new test as it moves toward an offering later this month of convertible preferred stock to raise as much as $125 million.
Catellus does have one measure of security that is the envy of many competitors. A debt-to-equity deal also due to close this month would increase the equity stake of the largest pension fund in the country, California Public Employees Retirement System, or Calpers, to 43 percent, from 20 percent.
 
 
Returns Won't Come Quickly
 "Do you think Calpers will let this go under?" asked Jon Fosheim of Green Street Advisors, a Newport Beach, Calif., firm that follows publicly traded real estate companies for institutional investors. "State employees have their hard-earned money in this company."
Unlike its railroad-era predecessors, Catellus is not promising an immediate harvest of exotic fruit. "Do we provide opportunities for short-term investors? No," Vernon B. Schwartz, Catellus's chairman, chief executive and president, said.
"This is a long-term journey," said Mr. Schwartz, 42, who arrived at Santa Fe Pacific in 1989 from the Hahn Company, a major mall developer, where he had been chief operating officer. "But Wall Street wants to see your ability to create value," he said, "and it's just been impossible" because of California's weakened economy. Seventy-three percent of the company's real estate holdings are in the state.
Still, unusual among real estate companies, Catellus owns its land free and clear as part of the terms of the spinoff from its parent.
When it was spun off in November 1990, Catellus took with it 1.3 million acres in 12 states. The bulk of that, 1.2 million acres, consists of long, lonely stretches of mountain and desert, considered too remote for development. Catellus has been selling pieces of this property to Federal land agencies or swapping them for parcels elsewhere, all to finance the company's 7,721 acres considered to have a commercial future.
Though cash to develop properties is tight, Catellus has posted stable operating results, and its existing business -- industrial and commercial leasing -- is sound. Rental revenue is rising, and net income for the first nine months of 1992 was $4.6 million, in contrast to a loss of $3 million in the corresponding period a year earlier.
The company's best prospects lie in San Francisco, San Diego and Los Angeles, where it holds prime land that could provide a big payoff if California's economy improves. Chief among these holdings is the 313-acre Mission Bay development one mile from downtown San Francisco.
Ten years in the planning, the Mission Bay project hopes to build an entirely new neighborhood, with open spaces and street-level retail development. Catellus's plan won city approval easily, in part because it agreed to dedicate nearly 40 percent of its 8,500 planned residential units to "affordable" housing. The company hopes to put the first units on the market by late 1994.
Mission Bay could become Catellus's crown jewel or its albatross. "They have one irreplaceable asset, which is Mission Bay, and they need a huge cash infusion every year to keep up with the development," Mr. Fosheim said. A cash sinkhole at the largely vacant site is a heap of hazardous waste, which Catellus has agreed to clean. Mr. Schwartz declined to discuss Mission Bay's operating costs, except to call one estimate of $40 million in annual losses incorrect.
Though San Francisco embraced Catellus, it was a different story in Santa Fe, N.M. After the company presented an ambitious plan for its 36 acres of railyards on the city's west side, Santa Fe residents rebelled. Fearful for their small-scale cityscape, residents persuaded city councilors to reject the proposal. Catellus has gone back to the drawing board.
 
The Calpers Recommitment
 Despite setbacks, Catellus may well have put to rest the biggest uncertainty about its future: that is, what Calpers intended to do with a $106.5 million convertible debenture due on Dec. 31, 1994. The Bay Area Real Estate Investment Associates, a limited partnership made up of Calpers and the JMB Realty Corporation, agreed in October to convert the debenture into $141 million worth of Catellus common stock. The conversion is conditional on the completion early this year of a public offering of convertible preferred shares worth between $50 million and $125 million.
The head of investment at Calpers, Dewitt Bowman, declined to comment on the conversion, citing the registration period under way for the new shares. The pension fund's original 20 percent equity stake in Catellus, about $400 million, was valued at $38 a share at the time of the spinoff, but is now only worth a small fraction of that. Converting its debentures to stock would effectively double the Calpers stake in Catellus.
Even with a new infusion of capital, Mr. Schwartz said, Catellus would proceed cautiously, hoping to integrate urban development and transportation systems, possibly to score as big a hit as Harbor Place in Baltimore or the recasting of Union Station in Washington. The old Union Station in Los Angeles could become a showpiece if Catellus's plans get back on track.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A detail from a rendering of the 313-acre Mission Bay development by Catellus Development a mile from downtown San Francisco. (Catellus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CDX (NYSE) (96%); SFX (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (91%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CATELLUS DEVELOPMENT CORP; SANTA FE PACIFIC CORP BNSF RAILWAY CO (91%); SANTA FE PACIFIC CORP (84%); CATELLUS DEVELOPMENT CORP (70%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (53%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATELLUS DEVELOPMENT CORP; SANTA FE PACIFIC CORP CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; STOCKS (CORPORATE) REAL ESTATE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (88%); PENSION FUNDS (86%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); EXECUTIVES (85%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (69%); PREFERRED STOCK (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (64%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



10 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: First-Time Jobless Claims Decline by 28,000

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
First-time claims for unemployment benefits tumbled 28,000 in the most recent four-week reporting period, Labor Department figures indicated today. The average number of claims for the period fell to the lowest level since late 1989.
The unexpectedly sharp decline, which followed a week in which storms kept many workers from claims offices, was regarded by many as evidence that the economy's growing strength was spreading into the job market. 
 "I think you're going to see further improvement," predicted Daniel Laufenberg, an economist for IDS Financial Services in Minneapolis. Gains in output, he added, have so far been mainly a result of unsustainably rapid increases in productivity, with new hiring expected to follow inevitably.
At the same time, however, analysts said that the drop in jobless claims, to an average of 341,250 over the latest four weeks, still owed more to a slowing in layoffs than to the generation of new jobs.
They also said jobs were still considered fairly hard to find, citing the Conference Board's report this week showing only a slight increase in help-wanted advertising.
Of the 28,000 decline in claims in the week that ended on Dec. 19, the data released today showed 11,200 were in California. That change reflected fewer layoffs in the state's construction and food-processing industries.
 A separate report today showed that new orders for factory goods fell nine-tenths of a percent in November. But this news left analysts unruffled, since figures published earlier on durable goods indicated that there was a big drop in aircraft orders, which tend to move erratically.
Excluding transportation equipment, factory orders climbed five-tenths of a percent.
The nondurables half of factory orders edged up one-tenth of a percent after a small October decline and a big September advance. The previously reported level of new orders for durable goods -- those that are intended to last at least three years -- was down 1.9 percent.
Shipments of manufactured goods posted a broad rise of 1.1 percent, but unfilled orders fell nine-tenths of a percent, the 13th decline in backlogs in the last 14 months.
Declining backlogs, now at their lowest point in four years, imply that the current work force has so far been adequate to handle the flow of new business.
 
 
Inventories Decline 0.5%
 Factory inventories declined five-tenths of a percent, the biggest decline of the year and a development suggesting that higher orders would promptly translate into fresh production.
In all, the Commerce Department report showed November orders of $242.6 billion, shipments of $247 billion, unfilled orders of $471.8 billion and inventories of $381.8 billion, all expressed in current dollars and adjusted for typical seasonal influences.
The general economic improvement, as reflected in various sets of figures in recent months, is "for real," said Roger M. Kubarych of Henry Kaufman & Company, but should not be seen as heralding more than moderate economic strength. "The drags are pretty heavy," he added, citing continued restructuring by large employers and dimming export prospects that Mr. Kubarych said included South America as well as Europe and Japan.
Today's claims figures, a rough predictor of the labor market, showed the first decline in three weeks but was the 17th time in 19 weeks that new applications were less than 400,000, the dividing line for many economists between an improving market and an eroding one. For the second and third quarters, the average was 410,000, according to calculations by J. P. Morgan.
 Economists also pointed to a buoyant set of monthly job statistics for December, to be reported on Jan. 8, despite the fact that today's figures covered the third week of the month while the monthly results will be based on a survey conducted in the preceding week.
In the week that included Dec. 12, today's report also found, 2,776,000 people were collecting jobless benefits under state programs, a decline of 87,000 from the revised total of 2,863,000 the week before.
In addition to the 332,000 initial claims in the Dec. 19 week, there were 24,625 people who filed under the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, 312 more than in the preceding week.
Besides California, states reporting declines of more than 3,000 in first-time claims were Michigan, Ohio, North Carolina and Alabama. Pennsylvania posted the biggest increase, with 2,471 additional claims that reflected layoffs in textiles, apparel and primary metals.
"We certainly think it's still drifting down," Susan M. Hering, a Salomon Brothers economist, said of the trend in claims. But since the figures are notoriously volatile, she cautioned, "It's best to take it one week at a time."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" shows manufacturers' total new orders from 6/91 to 11/92 (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT IDS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (65%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (64%); AIRCRAFT MFG (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



11 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Purchasers' Index Rises

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz., Dec. 31

 BODY:
The manufacturing sector grew in December for the third straight month, and the economy expanded at its fastest pace since May 1992, the National Association of Purchasing Management said today.
The group's purchasing managers index rose to 55.9 in December from 55 in November. A reading above 50 suggests the manufacturing economy is expanding. 
 The group, made up of purchasing managers at leading companies around the country, said new orders expanded in December at their fastest pace in five years.
Exports expanded, imports grew and production increased -- all signs that the manufacturing economy is continuing to grow as the overall economy gathers steam.
"The new-orders index rose to the highest level since October 1987 and was the third highest rate of growth reached in the past nine years," Robert Bretz, chairman of the group's business survey committee, said. "This high rate of growth in new orders, coupled with the low level of inventories and declining prices, should be sufficient to sustain economic growth into 1993."
One of the few dim spots in the report was the employment index, which declined in December, to 47.1, from 48.7 in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (72%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



12 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
30-Year Treasury Bond Prices Decline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices sank yesterday in extremely quiet abbreviated trading on the last day of 1992.
The price of the Treasury's main 30-year bond fell 7/32 and its yield rose to 7.39 percent.
On Wednesday the bond's yield closed at 7.37 percent. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions.
 
Effect of Jobless Claims
 Analysts attributed the market's decline to a Labor Department report showing a drop in weekly jobless claims that was larger than expected, as well as a cashing in of year-end profits by traders. 
 The Government said the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell by 28,000 during the week that ended on Dec. 19. It was the first decline in three weeks but the ninth drop in 13 weeks and brought a closely watched four-week moving average of claims to a three-year low.
The decline in claims was a hint that "the recovery might be a little stronger than generally expected," heightening fears of inflation, said Douglas Schindewolf, a vice president at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company.
Because trading was thin, the decline in bond prices might have been exaggerated. Trading in Government securities ceased around 1 P.M. as dealers headed out early to celebrate the New Year.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, short-term maturities fell 1/16 to 1/8 and intermediate maturities were off 1/4 to 1/8, the Telerate Inc. financial information service reported.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, which measures price movements on all outstanding Treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, fell 1.67, to 1,255.84.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose 2 basis points, to 3.08 percent. The rate on six-month bills rose 4 basis points, to 3.28 percent. On one-year bills, the discount rate rose 3 basis points, to 3.42 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The Federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was 3 percent, up from 2 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from 9/92 to 12/92 (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (66%); TRI (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (68%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (95%); BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



13 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Has a Mixed Finish In Extremely Thin Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mixed yesterday on world financial markets.
Gold prices were mostly lower. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery settled at $332.80 an ounce, unchanged from Wednesday. Republic National Bank quoted a late bid for gold at $333 an ounce, off 25 cents. 
 The final trading day of the year saw the dollar decline in foreign markets, but it reversed the trend when trading shifted to the United States.
Trading was extremely thin -- "practically nonexistent," according to Andrew Busch, a dealer with Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. That meant that even modest selling or buying had a disproportionate impact on the currency's value.
 
 
Jobless Claims
 The dollar drew some mild support in United States markets from a Labor Department report showing a larger-than-expected drop in jobless claims for the week ended Dec. 19.
The report, which sent short-term interest rates higher, helped the dollar close at its highs for the day, Mr. Busch said. Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated securities more attractive to investors, thereby increasing their need for the United States currency.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 124.65 yen, up 0.15 yen from Wednesday's close. In later European trading, the dollar was lower at 124.55 yen. In New York the dollar settled at 124.85 yen, up from 124.60 yen on Wednesday.
In London, the pound was trading at $1.5140 at the close, up from $1.5125 on Wednesday. In New York it cost $1.5105 to buy 1, up from Wednesday's $1.5100.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday's rates included: 1.6206 marks, up from 1.6108; 1.4670 Swiss francs, up from 1.4655; 5.5265 French francs, up from 5.5155; 1,472.50 Italian lire, down from 1,474.50, and 1.2710 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2688.
 
 
Rates in Europe
 Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Wednesday's rates included: 1.6135 marks, down from 1.6140; 1.4550 Swiss francs, down from 1.4590; 5.5000 French francs, down from 5.5045; 1.8100 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8130; 1,469.00 Italian lire, down from 1,472.00, and 1.2686 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2685.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



14 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Forecast of Snow on Plains Brings Jump in Cattle Prices

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Cattle futures prices surged yesterday on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as meteorologists forecast snow in the Great Plains, which analysts said could disrupt livestock feeding and shipping.
The storm, predicted to drop 3 to 8 inches of snow on Sunday, would place more stress on herds already enduring below-normal temperatures in the northern Plains and freezing drizzle in the south, the analysts said. 
 "If it muddies up the feedlots again and creates more stress on the animals, who are still trying to recover from the weather, it just delays the finish of those cattle a little while longer," said Chuck Levitt, an analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers in Chicago.
Live cattle for February delivery surged 95 cents, to $77.12 per hundredweight. Feeder cattle for delivery in March, the most active month, rose 68 cents, to $84.68 per hundredweight.
 
Light Trading Before Holiday
 Analysts said light trading might have exaggerated gains. Trading ended an hour early because of the New Year's holiday.
Heating oil led energy futures lower after the American Petroleum Institute estimated an increase in United States supplies of the fuel. The institute said after the close of trading on Wednesday that distillate inventories had climbed 1.59 million barrels, or almost 1.2 percent, in the week that ended on Dec. 25, to 138.9 million barrels.
Heating oil for delivery in February, the most active month, fell 0.51 cent, to 57.21 cents a gallon. February West Texas intermediate crude oil fell 9 cents, to $19.50 a barrel.
Copper surged on the Commodity Exchange of New York after a Government report showed lower jobless claims, suggesting a stronger economy and greater demand for the industrial metal, analysts said.
"With employment improving, the outlook for the industrial sector brightens," said Peter Cardillo, research director for Westfalia Investments in New York.
Copper for delivery in March, the most active month, climbed 0.75 cent, to 103.60 cents an ounce on the Commodity Exchange of New York.
Pork belly prices fell on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange after a report after the close of trading on Wednesday indicated a growing hog population.
Pork bellies for February delivery fell 10 cents, to $37.75 per hundredweight. February live hogs gained 3 cents, to $43.62 per hundredweight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE CME GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; CATTLE; PRICES; WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; FORECASTS BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (93%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); WEATHER (92%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (89%); MAMMALS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); PORK (89%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); POPULATION GROWTH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



15 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 5; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Review/Art;
Homelessness Explored At El Museo del Barrio

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
"House of Fire," 1 of the 12 installations by the Puerto Rican artist Antonio Martorell currently at El Museo del Barrio, is a skeletal structure of half-burned furniture parts and wooden planks charred black. The nearby "White House" is fashioned entirely from sheets of pristine Japanese paper decorated with cut-out patterns that suggest both the lace of a communion dress and a popular childhood handicraft raised to a level of grandeur.
These two works embody the double-sided theme of homelessness and shelter at the heart of "A House for Us All," as Mr. Martorell has titled his remarkable show, and they constitute popular art in the richest sense of that term. Collaborative in nature, materially alluring, specific in their references but expansive in their implications, they have the kinds of complexity and vitality that the installation format was invented for, but that it has rarely achieved in New York in the last few years. 
 Mr. Martorell, a 53-year-old printmaker, writer and performer who has exhibited widely in South America and the Caribbean, establishes his central metaphor in the show's opening work. Titled "Kamikaze," this house has a feather mattress for a floor, bedposts for walls and draped mosquito netting for a roof. The title, a sound-alike combination of the Spanish words for bed (cama) and house (casa), could easily refer to the king-size insects made of sequins and wire that seem to be dive-bombing the house from above and cling to the netting like Christmas ornaments.
The image is drawn from the artist's own past. When he was 5, his family was evicted from its home and forced to live in a single room behind a relative's shop. In the show's catalogue, Mr. Martorell says he remembers these cramped conditions fondly; he felt secure in a world of wall-to-wall beds enveloped by opaque tulle curtains. And, in a way that is characteristic of much of this artist's work, "Kamikaze" imbues the harsh facts of daily life with a childlike sweetness and an odd, delicately wrought magnificence.
The autobiographical strain continues in the tentlike "Singer House." Its thin frame structure is made of yardsticks hung with pairs of scissors, its sides of sewing patterns; ribbons and dress trimmings stream from its roof. At its center, raised on a big, heart-shaped pincushion of red velvet, sits a 1940's Singer sewing machine encrusted with pearls. A wall text says that the work is dedicated to Mr. Martorell's mother, who supported her family as a seamstress, and by extension to all the women who have earned their livelihood through sewing in the Caribbean or in Manhattan sweatshops, like those in SoHo that have only recently been displaced by art galleries.
The immigrant experience itself is one of the show's recurring motifs. Just as most of the installations in "A House for Us All" were created in Puerto Rico and are very likely to return there at the end of this exhibition's run, one of the defining features of the "Nuyorican" experience is the frequent shuttling from the island to the mainland and back. Mr. Martorell's work suggests that this commute has produced not only a vital hybrid culture, but also an odd sense of psychological suspension between the Caribbean home and the northern city that holds the possibility of economic survival.
Interestingly, this state of perpetual transience is most directly addressed by the show's only site-specific work, commissioned by El Museo del Barrio. Titled "House in Mid-Air," it simulates the tunnel-like interior of a small commercial shuttle plane, although here the seats are a collection of fabulously embroidered lawn chairs and rockers, the windows are mirrors framed with pom-pon tassels, the walls are covered with the text of a provocative story by the Puerto Rican writer Luis Rafael Sanchez, and a small plastic radio plays salsa throughout the trip. "House in Mid-Air" is a physically dense piece, although, like everything else here, it has a sense of improvisational deftness, as if it had been created in a single work-intensive session.
Other pieces in the show are more spare, even severe. Some of them are obviously political in meaning. The decorative window grilles that form "The Green House," for example, are used as security devices in Puerto Rican homes, but here they are ornamented with rows of pennies. And at least one installation is literally poetic. The paper "Rilke's House" takes the form of a huge air-mail envelope, with woodcut portraits of the German writer Rainer Maria Rilke stamped on the outside and passages from his "Letters to a Young Poet" written in flowing script on the interior. "Believe in a love that is being stored up for you like an inheritance," reads one of its lines.
In fact, it is exactly a sense of having been conceived and executed out of love and affirmation that makes this show so moving and puts it in an odd position in the present art climate. Although museums and academic art departments are paying lip service to exploring the contemporary art of all world cultures, there appears to be a firm institutional line drawn between the often didactic, ironic, theory-driven work that has dominated New York in the last decade and the emotionally open, intensely metaphorical art represented by "A House for Us All."
Whether that line holds or yields, the kind of art Mr. Martorell is creating -- based on the assumption that spiritual aspirations, political ideas, and personal and communal emotions are inextricably bound together -- is here to stay and deserves a long, careful look.
Antonio Martorell's exhibition "A House for Us All" remains at El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, through Feb. 28.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Kamikaze," one of the works by the Puerto Rican artist Antonio Martorell in the show "A House for Us All," at El Museo del Barrio. (Frank Gimpaya)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC5064 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES (51%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (88%); UNITED STATES (70%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (70%); SOUTH AMERICA (55%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MUSEO DEL BARRIO (NYC) SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO (51%); CASA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEO DEL BARRIO (NYC) CASA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (88%); UNITED STATES (70%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (70%); SOUTH AMERICA (55%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ART; ART SHOWS HOMELESSNESS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EVICTION (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (65%); GARMENT WORKERS (64%); IMMIGRATION (60%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (56%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND; MARTORELL, ANTONIO

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



16 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 28; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: It's Time to Savor the First Tastes of Vintage '93;
Video

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES

 BODY:
Can't find a cab? Stay home and rent Jim Jarmusch's "Night on Earth" (newly released on video by New Line), a 1991 film of five droll, often hilarious vignettes set in and around taxis. As these unconnected stories head east, from high-powered Los Angeles to frigid, boozy Helsinki, they display Mr. Jarmusch's unmistakable wit, warmth and intelligence.
Winona Ryder is the least likely driver, a tiny woman with a dirt-smudged face who dreams of becoming a mechanic. At a Los Angeles airport, she picks up an elegant agent, played by Gena Rowlands, and the two dish the dirt about problems with careers and men. The fine acting is a treat that holds up throughout the film. 
 Meanwhile, in Manhattan, a frantic Brooklyn-bound passenger named YoYo (played to comic perfection by Giancarlo Esposito) hails a cab driven by a confused circus clown from East Germany. Helmut (Armin Mueller-Stahl) doesn't speak much English, doesn't know his way around, doesn't drive so much as he lurches forward a few feet at a time. It's guaranteed that one day you will be sitting white-knuckled and lost in a taxi, thinking of him.
In a wildly funny segment, Roberto Benigni is a Roman driver who picks up a priest and feels compelled to confess his early sexual encounter with a pumpkin. Throughout this frenetic monologue, the driver remains hopelessly romantic. You never forget your first love affair, even if it was with a piece of fruit.
All the stories include fresh turns. When a black driver in Paris picks up a beautiful, angry blind woman, what might have been a mawkish tale about prejudice and insight turns out to be wonderfully unsentimental. The only weak segment is the last, in which a group of drunken friends try to get their unemployed colleague home in the dreary Helsinki dawn. That dreariness seems contagious. But always Mr. Jarmusch presents a clear-eyed yet sympathetic view of these people. The rich comedy of "Night on Earth" might be the flip side of "Taxi Driver," offering a vision of what is least threatening in us all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (55%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YEAR; MOTION PICTURES VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); 

PERSON: JAMES, CARYN JIM JARMUSCH (74%); WINONA RYDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



17 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Feud Between Top Dinkins Aides Is Seen Hurting Social Programs

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
A feud between two of the Dinkins administration's top officials has become so bitter that it has undermined the city's ability to forge coherent strategies on social issues like homelessness, say advocates for the poor, union leaders and some city officials.
The animosity between First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel and Barbara J. Sabol, who heads the city's vast social services bureaucracy, has bubbled beneath the surface for more than a year. But it recently erupted in a bitter exchange of memos, which were obtained by advocates for the homeless through a legally enforceable request under the Freedom of Information Act. 
 In one memo to Mr. Steisel, Mrs. Sabol stated that she had "come to expect demeaning and inappropriate responses from your office." And she concluded by caustically suggesting that he call her at the Human Resources Administration, where she is the commissioner, if he had further questions about an audit they were arguing over.
"My telephone is 212-274-2664," she wrote to Mr. Steisel, the City Hall official she reported to directly for almost two years.
 
Policy Fights Boiling Over
 The feud is rooted in policy differences, with Mr. Steisel pressing to shake up the social-services bureaucracy and its management to improve services, while Mrs. Sabol insists that the city and state need to devote more money to the problems. But it has also become a clash of personalities. And pressure from the courts to improve the shelter system -- which led a state judge to hold both Mr. Steisel and Mrs. Sabol in contempt for the city's failure to shelter the homeless adequately -- has intensified the acrimony.
Neither Mr. Steisel nor Mrs. Sabol returned calls seeking comment Wednesday or yesterday. Leland T. Jones, a spokesman for the Mayor, said disagreements were just normal tensions in an administration of strong-willed people. "It's not unusual that those who run agencies and people at City Hall occasionally have strong disagreements, but that's government, not gossip," he said. "It's that tension which hopefully leads to a system that works better."
But advocates for the homeless and union officials say they see an administration at war with itself. "The Mayor doesn't have one administration, he has at least two," said Linda Schleicher, assistant to the president of the Social Services Employees Union, local 371. "They spend so much time fighting each other, they don't know where they're going. There's never been a team."
Some involved in the issue of homelessness say a number of city officials would be happy to see Mrs. Sabol go. George McDonald, who runs a nonprofit group and served on the mayoral commission on homelessness, said it is common knowledge that Mrs. Sabol and Mr. Steisel have "had a problem."
"The First Deputy Mayor would like a commissioner who gets the job done," Mr. McDonald said. "I don't think it's personal. It may be now, but I don't think it started out that way."
And other people familiar with the Human Resources Administration say it is commonly believed there that Mr. Steisel is engaged in a kind of bureaucratic guerrilla warfare to undermine Mrs. Sabol. He and his surrogates have wrongly depicted her as an obstacle to reforming the shelter system, they say.
Oddly, Mrs. Sabol herself has been virtually invisible in the press even though she is commissioner of an agency that serves more than one million poor New Yorkers. She has said she mistrusts the news media and has only rarely granted interviews, so her positions on various social policy disputes are sometimes enigmatic.
Her public silence has frustrated some advocates for the homeless who believe she is more liberal than Mr. Steisel.
 
Steisel Winning Policy Battles
 "The bunker mentality at H.R.A. has ill-served the agency," said Steven Banks, coordinating attorney for the Legal Aid Society's Homeless Family Rights Project. "The public discourse has emanated from City Hall, which has pulled the rug out from under H.R.A. on resources and funding."
Mr. Steisel is apparently winning some important policy battles. For example, the Mayor finally decided last month, nine months after a mayoral commission recommended it, to take the city's sprawling shelter system away from Mrs. Sabol's agency and to hire Mr. Steisel's hand-picked candidate, Charles V. Raymond, to create a new city department on homelessness.
Mr. Steisel was the point man in setting up the mayoral commission on homelessness, headed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's son Andrew, who runs a nonprofit group that operates shelters. The commission said the city needed to set up tougher rules on who qualifies for shelter and needed to require that the homeless participate in social service programs before they are placed in permanent housing. Its members were also harshly critical of how Mrs. Sabol's agency has managed the system to date.
Mrs. Sabol, a member of the panel, abstained on the issue of whether to create a new agency when the mayoral commission voted, but she has made it clear in letters to state officials that she thinks the problem of homelessness has more to do with a lack of money to tackle housing problems than with an inefficient bureaucracy.
While City Hall has stressed social problems like drug abuse and illiteracy as causes of homelessness, Mrs. Sabol has emphasized the lack of affordable housing. She has argued that the city should lobby the state to raise the monthly allowance that poor people receive for rent, which has not kept pace with inflation.
 
Bitter Fight Over Audit
 But City Hall officials say her position is unrealistic at a time when the state is in dire financial straits. And in a December memo, Mr. Steisel pointedly noted that proposals to increase the rental payments do "not represent a city position."
Without the usual courtesy of a phone call accorded an official who is part of the same administration, Mr. Steisel fired off a memo to Mrs. Sabol in September stating that he was "disturbed" by an audit finding that her agency had not satisfactorily carried out city policies to prevent the placement of homeless families in city shelters.
She responded angrily that Mr. Steisel himself was to blame for blocking full financing of prevention programs her agency had proposed and scolded him for putting such thoughts in writing at a time when she personally faced contempt charges.
"I fail to see why this comes as a surprise to you since OMB (at your directive) either did not or only partially funded many of the key elements of our plan," she wrote, referring to the city's Office of Management and Budget.
More broadly, the conflict between City Hall and the budget office, on the one hand, and H.R.A. on the other, appears to have undermined their ability to work together effectively on basic management issues.
A budget official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the social services agency often does not give the budget office enough information to make cuts intelligently. "We're at loggerheads," the official said. But H.R.A. officials say they communicate constantly with the budget office.
Budget officials and child welfare administrators also disagree about why the number of caseworkers who investigate child abuse reports has shrunk by about a quarter since Mayor David N. Dinkins took office, weakening protection of the city's most vulnerable children.
Mayor Dinkins, who has publicly made the fight against child abuse a major priority, on Tuesday asked Deputy Mayor Cesar A. Perales to find out whether caseloads are too high.
The City Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, said that the Child Welfare Administration, part of the H.R.A., was given sufficient resources to keep caseloads in line. The problem, he said, "is largely because they haven't used their personnel correctly."
But Robert L. Little, who heads the Child Welfare Administration, said the budget office has underestimated how many workers it needs.
 
Freeze Hurts Agency
 For example, he said, the budget office has not taken into account the need for more caseworkers to reflect the fact that new laws require workers to report more frequently to Family Court. When each case takes more time, each worker can handle fewer cases, he said.
A major point of disagreement between city budget officials and child welfare administrators involves how the city staffed a new program of 150 caseworkers who each spend eight weeks working intensively with only two troubled families at a time. The goal of the program is to keep families together and children out of foster care.
Mr. Michael said the agency was provided with enough hiring authority to staff this new program, strongly supported by the Mayor. But Mr. Little said the budget office has frozen hiring within the agency and insisted that he hire private agencies to start the new initiative.
Since he believed contracting with private groups would doom the program to failure, he instead diverted some workers who investigate child abuse to the new "family preservation" program. That decision worsened the shortage of child abuse investigators.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); JUDGES (64%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (55%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W; STEISEL, NORMAN (DEPUTY MAYOR); SABOL, BARBARA (COMR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



18 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Fortunate in Hard Times, Many Remember Neediest

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
The recession that has clung to the New York area wrought some of the more disturbing images of 1992: the newly unemployed lining up at soup kitchens, children packed into homeless shelters, more mentally ill people wandering the streets because of cuts in government aid.
With the economy foundering, New York City often seemed to face one crisis after another, upsetting many people who draw strength from its dynamism. Some reacted by committing themselves to helping the city through volunteer work or donations to charities like The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 "Unlike a lot of people in this country, I didn't lose my job in '92 and my income went up," Virginia Suetholz Lawrence of Manhattan said in a letter to the fund that she enclosed with her $1,500 check. "Please use the money to help someone less fortunate than me."
Ann B. Kleinman of Manhattan included a similar message with her donation of $100. "I am sending this gift with the hope that it can help those who are less fortunate than we have been this past year," she wrote. "In spite of a bleak economy in the New York area, we have managed to weather the storm. We would like to share our good fortune."
 
'Increase in Homeless'
 And Toni Derman of Port Jefferson, L.I., sent $100 with a note that explained: "With the increase in homeless people and those struggling to survive the recession, I hope this contribution will be put to good use for those in need."
Other longtime benefactors of the fund said they raised their donation this year because so many people were facing hard times.
David Judson of Manhattan gave $500. Chester Ross of White Plains sent a check in memory of his parents, Adolph and Estelle Ross. "Mrs. Ross and myself have been donating to your most worthy cause for almost 50 years," Mr. Ross wrote. "In view of the increased need to help the less fortunate, we have decided to increase our gift this year to $150."
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund gives assistance to seven charities that aid tens of thousands of people who lack food, clothing, shelter and health care. The New York Times pays the expenses of the Neediest Cases campaign, so all contributions are given directly to the charities. This year's appeal, the 81st, ends on Feb. 28.
 
'Global Note of Despondency'
 In a letter to the fund that she enclosed with her $25 check, Allison I. Mapp of St. Albans, Queens, said that the past year had left her saddened.
"Nineteen ninety-two has not been the very best of years for most of us," she wrote. "Homelessness, a soaring crime rate, heightened racial and ethnic tensions, indiscriminate deaths because of AIDS and a very bleak economy seem to have triggered a global note of despondency, especially at this time of year."
"So in these trying times," she added, "it is always comforting to read or hear of the little gestures of kindness and good will that still abound, in spite of the gloom."
But Nina Primer of Bedford, N.Y., who sent $25 to the fund, said the year had ended on a happy note.
"My husband recently found employment after a five-month search and we are grateful," she wrote. "For our children's health, we count our blessings. We pray that this donation will help lift someone's spirits at this holiday season."
 
Previously recorded . . . $2,387,956.02
Recorded yesterday . . . $43,000.00
 
Total . . . $2,430,956.02

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES ELECTRONIC MEDIA CO (85%); NEW YORK TIMES CORP (85%); NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (85%); NEW YORK TIMES BROADCASTING SERVICE INC (85%); NEW YORK TIMES SALES INC (85%); NEW YORK TIMES DISTRIBUTION CORP (85%); NEW YORK TIMES SYNDICATION SALES CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND HOMELESSNESS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); CHARITABLE GIVING (70%); CRIME RATES (65%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



19 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Loans Trickle to Residents After Heavy Storm Damage

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

 BODY:
Almost three weeks after a ferocious rainstorm swept the region, Federal loans and grants have begun to trickle out to residents whose homes and property were damaged. But the largest source of help so far has been private charity.
As of Wednesday, 9,143 residents of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut had applied for some form of Federal help, Federal relief officials said. The Small Business Administration had approved 21 low-interest loans, totaling $333,000, but it has disbursed only a part of the money, said Becky Brantley, a spokeswoman for the agency. The agency had issued 5,274 applications in all and received back 402. 
 A $10,000 loan, the first in New York, was given to a family in Laurel, L.I., yesterday. Most of the loans issued so far have been at 4 percent interest.
In Connecticut and New Jersey, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has distributed 551 grants totaling $516,010 for rent for temporary housing and minor repairs. In New York, the agency began distributing such grants on Wednesday, but the number of checks and the dollar amounts were not known, said George O. Thune, a spokesman for the agency.
While the Red Cross does not have cumulative statistics on the amount of relief it has distributed, it estimates that the total for the region will be $4 million. After visiting victims door to door or listening to their stories at Federal relief centers, Red Cross workers have provided everything from shelter to turkeys to vouchers for mattresses and clothing.
The effort has followed the usual pattern for relief in Federal disaster areas, in which the Government counts on families, friends and private organizations to provide short-term help, then follows up with long-term, and much more expensive, assistance.
Before the Federal Government releases any money, inspectors from the Emergency Management Agency and the Small Business Administration must examine residents' property to verify damage listed on grant or loan application forms. In addition, officials often must send applications back for more information. From the time applications are completed, the process takes at least one week for a grant and between two and eight weeks for a loan, officials said.
 
Estimate by Red Cross
 The Red Cross estimated that the storm, a northeaster that struck on Dec. 11, damaged 12,500 homes in New York, 10,500 in New Jersey and 2,300 in Connecticut. In applying for Federal disaster assistance, New York put the amount of public and private damage at $290 million; New Jersey estimated it at $76 million, and Connecticut put it at $60 million.
"We expect the figures to grow," said Donald L. Maurer, a spokesman for the New York State Emergency Management Office.
The response time by public relief officials to people who apply for help has varied. Joanna Nabet of Bayville, L.I., called the Federal emergency agency's toll-free number on Christmas Eve to apply for a grant. On Monday afternoon, the examiner, James R. Soucy, arrived at her house, an instant camera slung around his neck, to look over the wreckage left behind in the Nabets' once-flooded basement.
"It's amazing what the water will do," observed Mr. Soucy, a very weary veteran of recent disasters in Florida and Hawaii.
He took a picture of the Nabets standing in front of their home, urged them to file for a loan and told them that they would learn in seven days whether they were eligible for a grant.
 
Delays in Grants
 For Danny and Veronica Vooris of Long Beach, L.I., the service has not been so fast.
The day before the Nabets applied for help, the Voorises visited the relief center in their town after losing almost all their possessions in their basement apartment during the storm. Mrs. Vorris said they were told that their credit was not good enough for a loan and that they should wait until an examiner could come by to determine how much grant money they might receive.
"The people were so rude there," Mrs. Vooris said. "They said they'd get here when they get here."
Yesterday, more than a week after the Voorises applied, the examiner had not got there. But the Red Cross had given them $995 in vouchers for bedding and $495 for clothing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As of Wednesday, 9,143 residents of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut had applied for Federal help since the Dec. 11 storm. Gloria Minkoff and Bill Donaldson, left, from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, inspected the basement of Felix and Dorothy Martinez, right, in Bayville, L.I. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FEDERAL AID (US) RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (74%); CHARITIES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



20 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Challenge;
Starting the Decade -- at Last

 BODY:
The Nineties begin today. That it is possible to say this three years after the advent of the decade serves as a sad monument to President Bush's indifference to the nation's social and economic vitality. The statement also defines the task before Bill Clinton, a man of untested promise who has the opportunity and the obligation to shape the ethos of a decade.
New Year's Day is a good time for the President-elect to reflect on why we have been marking time. George Bush had a chance to shape the Nineties, just as two other Republicans, Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan, shaped their decades. He failed by bringing to the White House a notion of passive stewardship in domestic affairs that is better suited to service on a community board than to leadership of the most complex nation in history. 
 Mr. Bush's supporters argue that he was energetic and sure of hand in foreign affairs. They also point out that he possesses greater intelligence and personal sensitivity than his predecessor. Let Mr. Clinton ponder these testimonials and be reminded that in the job he sought so ardently it is performance that counts, not mannerly behavior within the tight little circle of friends and advisers.
Doing only the international or domestic half of the job will not suffice, either, and Mr. Clinton can apply that lesson to his own situation. He cannot ignore the task of guarding America's interests in a dangerous world. But his mandate runs toward correcting a domestic legacy of drift and neglect in many areas, including but not limited to the following questions of policy and spirit:
 
The Deficit
Depending on which economist you believe, deficits may or may not matter. But promises do matter, because they are linked to a President's political viability. As Mr. Bush learned by breaking his pledge not to raise taxes, the American people are not forgetful. But neither are they inflexible. They abandon Presidents only when their trust and intelligence are flagrantly abused, as was the case in the read-my-lips debacle cooked up by Mr. Bush, John Sununu and Richard Darman.
So Mr. Clinton may not have to hit his goal of reducing the deficit by half with arithmetical precision. The trick is to move toward that goal in a determined, undogmatic way consistent with the overriding goal of economic recovery. If Democrats had wanted a President who put deficit reduction ahead of everything else, they would have nominated Paul Tsongas. Moreover, deficit targets cannot become so sacrosanct that reaching them imperils the public-sector spending that history shows us is needed to recover from recession.
Mr. Clinton can be sure that the Reagan-Bush team and their talk-show cheerleaders will damn him for the deficits inherited from their heroes. But he should not forget that in this situation smart economics and smart politics are one. By keeping the spirit of his promise, he can convince voters that he has not been hit with the Bush amnesia.
 
Health Care
Mr. Bush might have been a two-term President if he had addressed the nation's health care problems with more conviction. If Mr. Clinton misses his chance to lay the foundation for a national health care system, he, too, could be a one-term President. As a candidate, Mr. Clinton had an advantage. Unlike Mr. Bush, he understood that a national consensus was driving this issue, a consensus as powerful as the one that produced Social Security in 1935. Mr. Clinton promised to respond. No commitment he made in the campaign is more central to the "new covenant" that he intends as his political hallmark. The Nineties cannot be a decade of success in social welfare if they end without health insurance that covers every citizen and protects families from financial destruction.
This page has argued throughout 1992 for the market-oriented system called managed competition as a workable if not flawless approach. In any event, 1993 is the time to switch from the surgical neatness of theoretical argument to the messy task of stitching together legislation. The burden is on Mr. Clinton to sort through the various theories for delivering care and containing its cost, come up with a plan that is both medically and politically viable, and shepherd it through Congress.
 
Justice
One of the saddest spectacles of the Eighties was the Reagan and Bush Administrations' systematic assault on both the effectiveness and the principles of the Justice Department. A first step must be to restore the pride and vitality of the Civil Rights Division, which had a strong bipartisan tradition as a beacon of orderly social change under Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford and Carter.
To accomplish this, the Nineties must begin with a return to another bipartisan tradition, that of having the Attorney General as chief arbiter of legal policy in the Government. Mr. Bush allowed his undistinguished Attorneys General to be shoved aside by C. Boyden Gray, his strong-willed White House counsel whose outdated antipathy to civil rights contributed to historic levels of mistrust between the White House and minorities. It is time to release the pent-up energy of career employees ready to straighten up a department thrown into disarray under Presidents Reagan and Bush.
 
Homelessness
Throughout the Eighties it was possible to look from the windows of the White House family quarters and see a tableau of urban despair: the homeless people in Lafayette Park. Once the stands erected for the inaugural parade are dismantled, they will be back, and the Clintons will be able to watch them if they have the stomach for it.
Mr. Bush was a chief executive who could observe Lafayette Park and come up with nothing more forceful than "a thousand points of light." Will Mr. Clinton be a President who looks from the same windows and says to himself: "I am leader of the richest and most powerful nation on earth, and I choose to use some of that wealth and power to relieve this suffering. I may not be able to fix this overnight. But I have the resources to make a start, and I will"?
If he fails to see what is going on in Lafayette Park, will Hillary Clinton be the kind of First Lady who takes him to those windows and reminds him that Presidents can make a difference to the most vulnerable of us? If the answer to either of those questions is yes, the Nineties will be a better decade in every American city.
 
Values
 For this to be a healthy decade for America's political culture, we do need a return to traditional values -- as those values existed before the distorting effects of the 1988 and 1992 campaigns. These are the values of community and compassion that flowed from the New Deal and once animated the political life of both parties.
Starting with the George Wallace campaigns in the Sixties, the bottom feeders in the political strategy business learned that they could win votes by redefining values in a crabbed, divisive and hateful way. Some of Mr. Bush's hired hands, the late Lee Atwater and the rancorous Roger Ailes, carried out this work with a cold-blooded genius that was impressive but never admirable. In the year just ended, the final insult to language and political sense could be observed in the vacuous sallies of Vice President Dan Quayle and the venomous ones of Patrick Buchanan.
The "values" that they espoused under the banner of tradition ranged from the frat-house moralizing of Mr. Quayle to the nativist intolerance of Mr. Buchanan. America as defined by these men is not traditional. Theirs are the values of exclusion that the founders rejected with musket and pen. The new Congress, the President and people of good will in both parties must reclaim the idea of traditional values as a healing social prescription, not as an assault weapon.
 
Leadership
Any way you slice it, the fulfillment for most of our hopes for the foreshortened decade depend on Bill Clinton being big enough for the job he has won. Mr. Clinton no doubt understands that his victory was not, in the end, the doing of the band of strategists who have been busily congratulating themselves in television interviews and at the post-election seminars. He was the beneficiary of the good judgment of the American people. They rejected both the authoritarian prescriptions of the imitation populist from Dallas and the hang-tough economics of the gentleman from Kennebunkport.
Despite winning the election, Mr. Clinton still faces a campaign of reassurance. He comes to the Presidency having revealed less of himself than Mr. Carter, Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush did in admittedly guarded autobiographies. If anything, the serious press has not been overly inquisitive, but too easily cowed by Mr. Clinton's complaints about "you people" who are always asking questions.
As a Southerner, Mr. Clinton had years to observe the time-honored tricks of running against the newspapers. His press bashing was effective as a tactic for fighting his way off the ropes in the primaries, but President Clinton needs to follow a higher road than that traveled by candidate Clinton.
He must avoid the temptation to use the Gennifer Flowers episode as an excuse to extend an unreasonable "zone of privacy" around all aspects of his character and personal history, including those areas of private behavior that raise legitimate questions of competence. Principled inquiry is one of the few ways for the voters to learn if Mr. Clinton is likely to grow in wisdom or fall victim to that Oval Office hubris that led Mr. Bush to think that one idle term deserved another.
So on this New Year's Day of 1993, let the Nineties begin at last. Let Jan. 20 be a day marking the advent of a President whose mature character will draw its shape from the hope, humility and dedication of the American people. Let those people and that leader forswear the divisiveness that was too often preached in high places throughout the Eighties. Let them move into the Nineties in unified dedication to the healing of a troubled land that needs nothing so much as -- and requires nothing less than -- a President and Congress determined to summon its goodness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CHEERLEADING (68%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JOHN SUNUNU (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



21 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Finding an Economic System for a New Century

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Gar Alperovitz is correct that for nearly a century United States economic success has been associated with war or preparation for war (Op-Ed, Dec. 16). This country has yet to prove it can sustain long-term economic success without depending on a permanent war industry. 
 It is essential, looking at the larger picture and future needs, that we explore entirely new economic models. Communism is now relegated to the scrapheap of history, unable to provide the material needs for society. Capitalism, however, is also failing miserably in many areas.
It is a capitalist, free-market world, yet the inequities are brutal. More than a billion people live in shantytowns, garbage dumps and useless land. Moreover, the gap between rich and poor continues to widen, with the richest 20 percent of the world's population now owning 83 percent of the wealth.
Even in the United States the greed-oriented policy of the last decade has resulted in 1 percent of American households now controlling 37 percent of net worth. The top 4 percent of wage earners make more money than the bottom 51 percent combined. This gross inequity is the antithesis of democracy.
Athletes and entertainers make outrageous salaries, while many people who really contribute to the future of the country are grossly underpaid or have no work at all. Equally obscene, many company chief executive officers are paid millions of dollars in compensation, while they are laying off employees.
The country has become one big marketplace, where the main value is what sells. The most contemptible result is that children are the poorest age group, with one in every five children living below the official poverty line. Like the homeless and the unemployed, children have no buying power, so they come last. This is the ultimate disgrace of a system that neither comprehends what is important nor has a vision for the future.
Capitalism, as practiced today, is inherently inequitable. It is also an environmental disaster through dependence on mass consumption and constant expansion of markets. We must have a better system to meet the needs of the world community in the 21st century. Perhaps we must combine the best of capitalism with the best of socialism to make a truly democratic, equitable and workable system.
 
DOUGLAS MATTERN
President, Assn. of World Citizens
Palo Alto, Calif., Dec. 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); LANDFILLS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: ALPEROVITZ, GAR

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



22 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Finding an Economic System for a New Century;
Never Better

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The foundation for most of Peter G. Peterson's "Hard Truths for Better Days" (Op-Ed, Dec. 1) is an almost universally accepted but increasingly flawed view of how the economy works and ought to work. Briefly, the core "truth" is the old saw that rising production will solve the problems of unemployment and poverty just as a rising tide lifts all boats. 
 One reason this view is likely to fail is that the planet can only support full employment of the world's growing labor force at a cost of worldwide environmental degradation.
Equally important is a related but more subtle truth that will undermine public support for averting environmental catastrophe.
While Bill Clinton and Mr. Peterson are correct that jobs lost in defense may well be created in industries that protect the environment, America's consumers cannot fill their shopping bags with the production of these industries, and they will perceive a further decline in living standards.
In contrast to the tangible realities of a car, videocassette recorder or compact-disk player, Mr. and Mrs. Public will be unaware of the cancer they did not suffer because the ozone layer was preserved; the arsenic their family didn't ingest because the ground water wasn't contaminated; the funerals they didn't attend because highway safety improved. The list of unperceived benefits can be extended, but the public will not be persuaded to support policies that force it to give up material rewards for invisible blessings.
Economists know that there are only two ways to improve living conditions: increase supplies of stuff or decrease demands for stuff. But only supply increase is within the purview of economic science. Hence, the prescription for growth, growth, growth (or jobs, jobs, jobs). Yet despite the worship of growth, no economist can imagine a demonstration that an individual is better off today with more stuff than a few years ago with less stuff. (We should exclude those who were starving or ill and are now filled and healthy. Anyway, these are not constituents usually addressed by commentators and politicians.)
Put another way: the essence of our admirable economic system is to create wants as fast as, or faster than it satisfies them. Thus the improvement of living conditions, meaning greater consumer satisfaction, is, by definition, impossible!
Jimmy Carter was unfairly maligned for speaking this harder truth, one that is ignored by Peter G. Peterson.
 
JOHN MAHER
Hamden, Conn., Dec. 7, 1992
 
The writer retired as professor of economics at Southern Connecticut State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); STARVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, PETER G BILL CLINTON (56%); JIMMY CARTER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



23 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: 30-Year Low Is Seen for Traffic Death Toll

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
The Government estimates that traffic deaths will drop below 40,000 for 1992, the lowest annual figure in 30 years, as fewer Americans mix alcohol with driving and more use seat belts.
While the year is not quite over and official figures will not be available for months, Transportation Secretary Andrew H. Card Jr. said Tuesday that his department expected that the year's motor vehicle death toll would be 39,500. 
 That would continue a steady decline in traffic deaths since 1988, when the toll was 47,087. The 1992 total, if it holds up, would be a 5 percent decline from last year's 41,462 deaths.
The annual toll has not been below 40,000 since 1962. The record high was 54,589, in 1972.
Part of the decline may be a result of the recession, since people tend to travel less in economically hard times, transportation officials acknowledged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FORECASTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (88%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: CARD, ANDREW H JR (SEC)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



24 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2673 words

HEADLINE: From Tea Leaves to Tarot Cards

BYLINE: By ADAM GREEN; Adam Green, who co-wrote and performed in the Off Broadway show "An Evening of Fun With Moynihan and Green" with his partner, Maura Moynihan, has most recently written for Walt Disney Television.

 BODY:
THE Gypsy Tea Kettle, a short flight of stairs above Lexington Avenue at 56th Street, reigns like a dowager empress over a block lined with discount electronics stores. The sign in its window advertising "Tea Leaves Read Gratis" adds a singular note of quaint, faintly archaic gentility to the hurdy-gurdy drone of the surrounding tawdry commerce.
In this milieu the casual passer-by might dismiss the Gypsy Tea Kettle as just another spurious fortune-telling parlor, one of the city's hundreds of fly-by-night operations whose signs proclaim the amazing powers of Madame Dora or Sister Rose and beckon with promises of "LOVE, LUCK, MONEY, $ UCCE$$" and "ALL TYPE PROBLEM SOLVED." 
 This would be a mistake. The Tearoom, as it is referred to by its habitues, has been a mecca to those seeking knowledge of the future for 62 years. It began as a spot for women to pause from a day of shopping, buy a sandwich and a cup of tea, and have their tea leaves read. In the intervening decades, social history, economics and the mercurial vagaries of popular taste have reshaped the basic premise to the point that, in defiance of its name, it no longer employs Gypsies or offers tea-leaf readings, having long since replaced them with tarot cards. The result is a peculiarly New York hybrid of fortune-telling boutique, refuge from the cold, just-for-a-lark lunchtime stop and psychoanalytic institute.
The cost of a 15-minute card reading at the Tearoom is fixed, as it has been for four years, at $10. (Tipping, however, is strongly encouraged.) What's more, you have your choice among several readers. Whether or not you believe that your future can be divined from the ancient symbols of the tarot, when you consider what you are getting -- someone talking exclusively about you and your problems for a quarter of an hour -- this is one of the greatest bargains in town.
The value-for-your-dollar equation cannot be fully calculated, however, until you consider the substance of the service provided. While readings at most fortune-telling establishments generally run to such meaningless catch-alls as "You wear a smile, but on the inside you are crying," readings at the Tearoom are specific, down to earth and, some say, accurate.
The entrance is at 137 East 56th Street. After walking upstairs, you find yourself inside a long, narrow room, wallpapered in a gold-hued fleur-de-lis pattern. The decorative touches, while spare, are designed to invoke the burnished glow of a more gracious era: beads, faux Tiffany lamps and, as an allusion to the room's more specific past, a large copper tea server with a spigot, mounted on the wall.
On your left, eager patrons wait for their appointments. A 30-ish woman with neatly trimmed hair and a tailored blue suit nervously shreds every piece of paper she can fish out of her purse. A banker in pin stripes paces with his hands clasped behind his back. A boyish actor in blue jeans reads Backstage. A model wearing all black flips through her Filofax as she talks on the pay phone.
On your right, small booths upholstered in green vinyl line the walls. At each one sits a card reader (who goes by his or her first name only), examining, gesturing, sighing and speaking in confidential tones to the rapt client sitting across the table. You can pick up snatches of conversation: "I see some health problems around your liver, but nothing too serious"; "No, he's not cheating on you, but he's very demanding, very willful."
This was the scene I encountered on my first visit to the Tearoom three years ago. I felt as if I had walked into a world that I had no idea existed. But I had no time to stand and gawk. I had a specific, rather shoddy, mission to carry out.
Back then I had a crush on a girl whose feelings toward me seemed, at best, unclear. She had been going on for weeks about a card reader named Liz who had accurately predicted all manner of improbable events in her life. One evening, it struck me that, true psychic or fake, this Liz must have the inside dope on whether my crush was reciprocated. The next morning, feeling like a high roller swaggering up to the parimutuel window with a thousand bucks and a can't-miss tip on a 20-to-1 long shot, I set out for the Gypsy Tea Kettle.
In contrast to my preconceived image of a heavyset, mustachioed woman, Liz turned out to be a trim, jazzy platinum blonde. The fact that she was past the first blush of youth, yet still shy of middle age, gave her a sympathetic quality that was not exactly motherly but, rather, suggested an unmarried aunt whom your parents slightly disapproved of, but who always understood your problems, brought you presents, and had boyfriends who wore sharp suits, did coin tricks and called you "champ."
The reading that Liz gave me was a mixture of mysticism, earthy humor, gentle teasing and robustly direct advice. One moment she was waving her hand over the tarot deck, saying, "Truth and honesty, come through the cards." The next, she was telling me that I should play it cool to make my friend "a little nervous." Finally, she gave me what I had come for: the cards indicated that this girl was definitely crazy about me.
I don't blame Liz that the romance never materialized. I'm just not very good at having my fortune told. My psyche is such a tangled web of often conflicting beliefs, emotions, hopes, fears, neuroses and picayune superstitions that the vibes I give off are probably scrambled beyond recognition, like pay-per-view sporting events on cable television.
 
Futures With a Past
 A few months ago, I came across an issue of an old magazine called The New York Woman -- a fashion and life-style weekly that came out only in 1936 -- and, leafing through it, found an article titled "You'll Meet a Tall Dark Man!" Accompanying it was a photo of the Gypsy Tea Kettle, at a different location, but looking much as it does today. I realized then that, although I had not been back since the romantic debacle, for some reason the Tearoom had remained in the back of my mind. I also realized that I had stumbled onto a living piece of the city's past, and I decided to go back for another visit.
I am greeted by the Tearoom's owner, Doris Haber, who, after 50 years, still keeps the books, interviews and hires the readers, and comes in twice a week from Long Island to make sure that things are running smoothly. A diminutive woman with curly gray hair and a maternal, if somewhat phlegmatic, demeanor, Ms. Haber must be in her mid-70's but looks 10 years younger. Her story, and the Gypsy Tea Kettle's, mirrors New York's evolution since the Depression.
The first Gypsy Tea Kettle opened on March 30, 1930, at 503 Fifth Avenue, opposite the New York Public Library. The Tearoom's founder and owner was M. C. Berg, a restaurateur and speculative investor. Fortune-telling seems to have provided the same escape from harsh reality as movies did because, despite the scattershot nature of the readings offered, Berg's enterprise was doing well enough to warrant opening two more outposts on Fifth Avenue, each bearing a sign advertising "Tea Leaves Read Gratis."
Don't let the "gratis" lead you to believe that this was a philanthropic enterprise. There was, at the time, a state law prohibiting the telling of fortunes for profit. To circumvent this, the Gypsy Tea Kettle sold tea and lettuce sandwiches for the inflated price of 35 cents. The profit margin on the victuals sold to curious housewives, shop girls and debutantes more than covered the dollar a day that the tea readers were paid.
By 1940, however, indifferent management had eroded business, and a group of four investors, led by Irving Haber, bought all the Gypsy Tea Kettles for $500 each. In 1943, Ms. Haber was hired as the bookkeeper, and a few years later she married her boss.
 
Switching to Tarot
 The golden age of postwar New York in the 1940's and 50's was also a golden age for the Gypsy Tea Kettle and for the Habers, who, in addition to their fortune-telling empire, operated restaurants and nightclubs. With business booming, they kept the Tearoom open until 11 P.M. during the week and until 1 A.M. on Friday and Saturday nights. (It is now open from 11 A.M. to 7 P.M. on weekdays and until 5:30 P.M. on Saturdays.)
They also opened another Tearoom, at 200 West 50th Street, across from the back of the Winter Garden Theater. "Men used to come in and order a cup of tea just so they could look through the window and watch the showgirls getting dressed," Ms. Haber says. "They never pulled the blinds down, those kids."
In 1946, with the ban on fortune-telling for profit lifted, the Gypsy Tea Kettle laid the foundation for its future by starting to offer card readings for $1. Saddled with the burden of being classified as a restaurant because it served tea and cookies -- thus having to meet stringent health codes and pay stiff insurance premiums -- the Tearoom discontinued the practice of reading tea leaves. "How much can I charge for a cup of tea?" Ms. Haber asks rhetorically.
By the time her husband died in 1975, there was only one Tearoom left. A year later, she moved her business to its present location, where it has thrived. Reflecting current taste, readings at the Tearoom are conducted almost exclusively with tarot cards, which, Ms. Haber says, are "very popular with the whole age-of-Aquarius, what's-your-sign crowd." Still, it remains subject to its own vicissitudes, including days when readers call in sick and periods when trade is inexplicably slow. "It's like show business," Ms. Haber says. "Who knows?"
 
Guidance and Therapy
 Aside from the readers, Ms. Haber's only employee is Horace Hinds, a compact but powerful-looking man who, for 24 years, has been the Tearoom's utility infielder, a combination manager, maitre d'hotel, cashier, security guard and customer-relations liaison. He greets your arrival with the long-suffering dignity of an eminent professor whose studies have been interrupted by an overeager freshman. While never rude, his manner is efficient and businesslike, unadorned by extraneous niceties or false bonhomie.
Mr. Hinds does not generally offer his opinion on many subjects but, when asked, allows that the Tearoom's customers are "mostly intelligent." They are also diverse, representing a cross-section of citizens engaged in the life of a great metropolis in the waning years of the millennium. Reflecting this, everyone has his or her own reason for coming here.
One woman, an elegant art consultant in a houndstooth Chanel suit, says she comes a few times a year for professional guidance. Her reader predicted that a financially rewarding project would come her way last July. "I told her that was impossible, since I'd be out of the country," she says. "Then, when I was in France and I got that call -- well! It turned out to be very lucrative."
Although the themes are eternal -- love, money, personal fulfillment -- the baroque and labyrinthine specifics of some clients' lives often raise the readings to the level of high drama. One woman, a striking redhead who favors Tina Louise and does what she describes as "freelance promo work," used to come to the Tearoom almost every day, seeking advice about botched plastic surgery.
During this time, she says, she also learned she was being spied on (it turned out that an ex-boyfriend had learned her phone machine code and was eavesdropping on her using the "room monitor" feature) and that she would be arrested. (A few weeks later, after eating dinner at a restaurant, she discovered that she had forgotten her wallet, and the management called the police.)
Drew Sarancino, an acting student and waiter, comes here simply to sort out his feelings. "I lost a friend last year, and I couldn't speak to my parents about it," he says. "I couldn't explain the relationship." The permission he feels to speak freely here has kept him returning once a month for more than two years. "I can't afford a therapist," he says. "It takes a lot just to pay the bills." Then, with a rueful smile, he adds, "I call this my 15-minute shot of hope."
 
Vibrations of Hope
 Every client has a favorite among the six women and two men who read cards at the Tearoom. Half of them do not want to talk to me when they find out that I am writing an article. I get to know the other four in a whirlwind of predictions.
My first reading is with Kyle, a young man dressed in a button-down oxford shirt and khakis. Kyle grew up in Virginia Beach, where, starting at the age of 4, he both amazed and disturbed everyone around him by telling them things that he couldn't possibly have known.
Kyle says he once worked as a reservations agent for an airline, where he would try to guess customers' destinations before they told him. His accuracy convinced him that he could do this for a living. "I'm always right on the money," he says. "Right on the money."
With this in mind, when he asks me to shuffle the deck to get my vibrations on the cards, I hope that I am giving off vibrations that somehow bespeak personal triumph, public glory and lifelong virility. When he asks me to pick five cards, I do so with grave deliberation, aware that each is an irrevocable harbinger of things to come. Kyle remains matter-of-fact when he says, "It shows here that the next five months or so are not going to be very easy for you."
 
Spiritual Energy
 I don't fare much better in my next reading, with Iris, a Yugoslav emigre with effulgent red hair and sad brown eyes, who used to write a weekly column called "Secrets of the Tarot" for a newspaper back home. She tells me that I am not living up to my full potential, a view shared by Mrs. Long, my fourth-grade teacher.
Mercifully, I receive an upbeat account of my future from Lynn, a soft-spoken redhead who "draws spiritual energy from the universe" and uses regular playing cards for readings. Lynn says she realized that she had special abilities when she was 5 and, after being sent to a school for gifted children, began studying Tibetan Buddhism at 9 and the I Ching at 12.
Heartened by Lynn's soothing tone and sunny predictions ("Your whole life is coming together in a wonderful way you never thought possible"), I head to my last reading of the day, with Liz. She remembers me but seems wary. She quickly relaxes, however, and tells me about her life.
She tells me about discovering her abilities when she was 28 at a psychic development class given at the United Nations. She tells me about her preference for dating Jewish men. Then she reads my cards and tells me about the good things coming up in my life. But I am only half listening.
As she is talking, I recognize why the Gypsy Tea Kettle has such a persistent fascination for me. I realize that Liz, although much younger, reminds me of my grandmother, who told fortunes for a living, dyed her hair platinum blond, dressed flashily and had what used to be called a lively personality.
Sitting at this small booth with Liz brings back memories of sitting with my grandmother at her kitchen table; even the warmth and smell of the room seem familiar. Wearing a leopard-print housecoat, my grandmother would hold my hand and give me a reading that combined predictions tinged with wishful thinking about her grandson, stern advice, sly humor, folk psychology and grandmotherly love. During these times, I always felt that at least for the moment, I was safe and that everything would be O.K.
Buoyed by this, I decide to seek the answer to one final question. I ask Liz how she thinks this article will turn out. She waves her hand over the deck spread out on the table and says, "Truth and honesty come through the cards. We ask how this piece that Adam is writing will turn out." She turns to me. "O.K., now give me five."
With great caution, I choose five cards and push them toward Liz. She turns them over one by one, nods sagely and looks straight into my eyes. "Good, but not great. So-so."
You may judge her accuracy for yourself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Looking for harbingers: A 15-minute tarot-card session at the Gypsy Tea Kettle in Manhattan. (C. M. Hardt for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Kyle, one of eight card-readers at the Gypsy Tea Kettle. (C. M. Hardt for The New York Times) (pg. C20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FORTUNE TELLING; TAROT CARDS; GYPSY TEA KETTLE (NYC) ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (93%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); HISTORY (66%); 

PERSON: GREEN, ADAM GYPSY TEA KETTLE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1993



25 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 2239 words

HEADLINE: Learn to Walk, Learn to Fly

 BODY:
The Op-Ed Page asked students in two New York City school districts, District 9 in the South Bronx and District 28 in Bayside, Queens, to write about their hopes and fears. Here are excerpts from their essays.
 
Charisse Rice
4th grade, (Mount Hope) P.S. 28
Tremont, the Bronx 
 I hope people who don't have homes have homes.
I hope rich people be a little poor.
I hope bad people become good.
I hope girls in magazines don't be fresh.
I hope for no guns!
I hope for no lead in schools, water and buildings.
I hope for no hate, but love, no judging people by color.
I hope babies don't cry so much.
I hope no animals become extinct!
I hope Clinton doesn't raise taxes!
I hope everybody learns to love, care and share.
I hope girls don't put on makeup until their moms tell them to put it on.
I hope people, and children, watch only 30 minutes of TV a day.
I hope teachers can get a rest from bad children.
I hope no one gets hurt anymore from tornadoes, earthquakes or a hurricane.
I hope people don't be bad and eat until they can't fit through the door.
I hope people don't eat much sugar and eat more sugarless things.
I hope people don't say foul language and
I hope they try to be a saint or an angel.
I hope people get in shelters who don't have food, clothing and supplies.
I hope people don't tease people about how they look. To me they look gorgeous and cute.
I hope someday I can help the environment.
I hope people don't get H.I.V. positive or AIDS from someone.
I hope no one gets hurt in a fight.
I hope for boys to STOP fighting and love!
I hope a big ship goes to Somalia and stays there if they're bad.
I hope for people to get well when they're sick.
I hope homeless people are careful outside.
I hope everybody would be as good a kid as can be!
 
Benita Liao
5th grade, P.S. 98
Douglaston, Queens
Once when I was in this restaurant, I heard this couple saying, "Who would want to hire that lady? She speaks English with an accent." When I heard that I really felt bad deep in my heart. A lot of people in the United States speak with an accent and many of them are very intelligent.
I think there should be a law against racism and anyone that gets caught should get sent to this really strict camp. This camp should be able to teach the racists how to accept all people. This procedure should not take more than two months and no less than three weeks.
 
Madeline Lluberes
7th grade, I.S. 148
Morrisania, the Bronx
My fears are that one day my most precious pride in life will die and I will remain alone in a world of empty streets and people without knowledge. I fear war, racial attacks, slavery, crime and a world full of bad intentions. My fear is that more crimes will be committed.
I am afraid that there will be more and more crack babies born and homeless people in the street and our sisters and brothers starving to death.
The world is like an apple pie -- anyone can eat at any time, or the world can end at any time. That's my fear -- people getting shot while walking innocently in the streets and all because some crazy person has the urge to do it.

David Koontharana
5th grade, P.S. 213
Bayside, Queens
I just hope the economy gets better because my dad owns a restaurant in Port Washington and people don't come because they don't have enough money to eat out.
I have always hoped for world peace. As the great John Lennon once said, "All we are saying is give peace a chance." I can think of tons of ways to solve problems without violence.
In my school, you can't write in some workbooks because we are out of funds. Also to top it off, the schoolyard has cracks and holes in the pavement and the parks department hasn't fixed it yet. I just want the Mayor to give more money to the schools.

Willayie Saygbe
7th grade, I.S. 148
Morrisania, the Bronx
While I am growing up I see a lot of young people die, especially in this year.
Now I just have this strange feeling. The world is going to end soon because everyone is dying. I recall one day I was in an elevator with my two friends and a man and a lady. One friend was telling me that she found out the day before [that] one of our friends [who] was related to her. Then my other friend said, everyone is finding relatives [who died]. I said, "Yeah because everyone is dying." The man in the elevator said, "You're very smart, 'cause that's true."

Howard Chiou
4th grade, P.S. 203
Oakland Gardens, Queens
O.K. What do I hope for in the future? Well, I hope that one day we'll be able to drive in cars that fly and make our lives easy! Ha! Without that much worrying (if you know what I mean). Like people don't have to worry if the earth is going to be destroyed.
I also hope that everybody would have good jobs and would not be poor, etc., etc., etc. If the whole world would unite, there won't be wars in the future (except in Nintendo). One day we'll be able to communicate better and know each other's feelings. And, of course, you could just rest and not worry about groceries. But, you have to worry about your job. That's what I'm worrying about, and I hope I get a good one.
I also hope that we could go to Mars instead of Hawaii for vacation in the future, because people might get tired of those places.
It's time to make pets talk. I think it's time for a BIG change.

Matthew Brodis
6th grade, P.S. 159
Bayside, Queens
Welcome to the year 2009. It all started when the economy turned around and most people got their jobs back. The business world grew larger and the country got wealthier. Rich and poor were equal, and everyone was successful. People were able to afford large pieces of property.
There were apartment buildings that were as tall as the Empire State Building. The apartments also had malls. They had artificial beaches, with artificial waves.
They had billiard rooms, ski slopes, ice skating rinks and baseball and football fields.
Doctors discovered the cure for cancer and other deadly diseases. Astronomers were able to make people fly and they discovered that humankind did exist on other planets.
New, high-technology vehicles were invented: the subboat was able to glide on top of the water and also submerge, the Airborne Hovercraft glided on air and traveled 500 miles per hour. Then came the Injector, an airplane which got its name from its needle-point nose. There was the Slicer, which is a tube train, that traveled 1,000 miles per hour.
It is now the year 2015 and even more things have happened! People were making friends with aliens, and scientists found more information on time zones. Time could be frozen. There were electronic comic books. You could join in on TV shows from your home.
Man now looked for other amusements. As is shown in history, his destructive nature took over. Once again abuse to the environment, waste, greed and hatred were present. We didn't need to look at the calendar. It was 1992 again.

Ebonie Smallwood
4th grade, P.S. 28
Tremont, the Bronx
I might get a lot of money because I want to be a teacher, doctor, rap person like YoYo and M.C. Lyte, a girl who works at a beauty hair shop, a person who works at a store.
What if I can't be any of these? These are the things I want to be. But I don't want to be a cop because I don't want to die. I'm not as brave as a cop is. But I think -- and say -- my future is going to be great.

Maria Martinez DeLuca
7th grade, M.S. 67
Little Neck, Queens
Some people think the world is falling apart. How can we be sure? Some scientists tell us that the earth is in serious trouble, but science has been wrong before. Not too many people really care about the future of the earth. They could be right when they assume that nothing worse could happen to the ozone layer or the environment. On the other hand, they could be wrong.
The future of many animals doesn't seem too bright. How would life be without wild elephants or bald eagles? Some could argue that it would change the lives of many. Of course, some "future" studies could prove that what we are doing to the animals is perfectly all right, as long as a few are saved.
Many of us do not live in the same neighborhoods or cities or states or countries from where our ancestors originated. We are sometimes taken to see these places of our past. The future might include a trip we take with our descendants to show them the old, battered neighborhood of the earth.

Franchesca Ho Sang
4th grade, P.S. 28
Tremont, the Bronx
My fears for the future are a lot of things. My fears are that I'm not going to live to see the future. I say this because there is so much killing going on in high schools.
My hopes are peace on earth, to graduate, go to college, be a doctor. I decided to be a doctor when I was about 3 years old. People say that it is a very young age to make such a big decision. But I don't think so because I still haven't changed my mind yet and I turned 9 yesterday. And I even have a stethoscope and it is a real one.

Deena Engelman
5th grade, P.S. 205
Bayside, Queens
It's really hard to know at the age of 10 what I really want out of life but I will try to tell you some of my hopes and dreams for my future.
After I finish high school, I would like the opportunity to go to a wonderful college. The ones I have heard so much about and hope to possibly be accepted to are Harvard or Yale. There I will try to obtain the highest grades and really study hard to achieve my goals.
After I finish college, I would like to then get married, move to L.A., live in a large white house and begin raising a family. I hope that I have twins to love and enjoy.
Once my children grow a little older, I would like to go back to work. However, my main concern will always be my family. I also would hope that my parents would be living nearby to enjoy their grandchildren. In my spare time, I hope to be involved in many community activities where I will be helping others. Possibly in a hospital or shelters.

Mankazon Tidoe
4th grade, P.S. 28
Tremont, the Bronx
I hope the future will be great for my two sisters and me and for young people too. There will be great schools, free of violence. I hope that by the year 2000 I will be in a great college and want to be a great doctor when I grow up.
I wish we could have black people or women as Presidents by the year 2003. My fears are that people will continue to die from AIDS.
Too many kids will use drugs and start to kill kids and people on the street and in the schools. I fear I will not be safe from the violence. I am scared of kids that drop out of schools. Some of these teen-age girls get pregnant and have an abortion.
I feel sorry for those kids that cannot walk until they are 3 years old.
And I don't want stupid wars for nothing. And soldiers will stay -- not going anywhere. I wish Liberia wasn't at war. That's where my family came from. I wish this world was a better place to live in.

Christine Fasano
9th grade, M.S. 67
Little Neck, Queens
What is it? How do you get it? Is there a cure? These are three of the many questions people have about cancer. I myself knew little about cancer until my mother was diagnosed with ovarian cancer last summer.
Cancer is considered a silent killer because there are often no or few symptoms until it has spread far beyond control. Over one million people per year are stricken with cancer and more than half of them die. I hope in the future that number can be drastically reduced. Through research and public awareness I believe we can increase the survival rate of people stricken with cancer.
I hope that one day in the near future I will turn on the television and learn about the symptoms of cancer. I hope cancer will get as much publicity as AIDS does today.

Nancy Torres
4th grade, P.S. 28
Tremont, the Bronx
My fears are that everything that might happen in the future is happening today. I'm afraid that the violence and drug abuse is not going to stop. People are going to keep on dying of poverty, homelessness, drug wars and AIDS.
My hopes are that I will finish school and receive a good education. I hope someday I will be able to work for an advertising firm. I also hope that I can help my family out. And to someday get married and have a family of my own.

Jessica Berrins
4th grade, P.S. 133
Bayside, Queens
I have many hopes for my family as the New Year gets closer. This year was not a very good one for us and I'm hoping things will go better in 1993.
My grandpa is sick. He has a tumor in his stomach and had to go to the hospital. When he was well, my grandpa would take me to the park. Now I'm worried that we will not be able to spend as much time together.
I'm also hoping that my mom can find a second job. She works with disabled children and loves what she does but she is not making enough money. My mom talks about going to exotic places where it is hot. I'd like her to make more money this year so that she and I can vacation in Hawaii or Florida. This would really make her happy.
My mom and dad are divorced and I love them both. I also hope to spend more time with both my parents this year but especially my dad. We only see each other twice a week and I know his back is hurting him all the time. In 1993, I expect my mom, dad and me to be happy. It is my greatest hope.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); BAYSIDE (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



26 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: YELTSIN RECEIVING CRITICISM OF FOES ON NUCLEAR TREATY

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 1

 BODY:
On the eve of President Bush's arrival here to sign a nuclear arms reduction treaty, President Boris N. Yeltsin is being criticized for pushing through an accord that some say serves American interests and confirms Russia's subordinate status in a post-Communist world.
Mr. Yeltsin, his authority eroded by a bruising battle with the Legislature last month, pressed the White House into a rapid completion of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II. Mr. Bush had let it ride during his election campaign, but both sides were eager to complete the treaty. The terms were approved on Tuesday and the signing will be on Saturday. 
 For Mr. Bush, the treaty is an unexpected and dignified cap to a foreign-policy presidency. For Mr. Yeltsin, it is another challenge to his political skill.
 
Accusations of Selling Out
 Having been forced to abandon Yegor T. Gaidar, his choice for Prime Minister, in a rebellion against the pain of radical economic changes, Mr. Yeltsin is clearly using this summit as a chance to shore up his political stature and to remind his legislative opponents that the world is watching their actions. It will allow Mr. Yeltsin to begin the new year on an elevated, statesmanlike note after a year he described in his New Year's message as "the most difficult of my entire life."
But it will also give his opponents in Parliament, who must ratify the treaty, another big opportunity to criticize him for "selling out" for American cash and approbation. The assumption is that the treaty will be ratified in both countries but that there will be a fight, and a noisy one, in Russia.
 
Concessions to Sweeten
 While the treaty, which will cut both sides' strategic arsenals by two-thirds, is likely to save Russia many billions of rubles in the long run, it also undermines Russian assertions of superpower parity with the United States. The treaty bans the heavy, land-based, multiple-warhead missiles that were vital to the defense of the former Soviet Unions, but it preserves much of the sea-based missile force that the United States has relied on.
The Russian military already faces enormous budget difficulties and ethnic warfare within the old boundaries of the Soviet Union. The military formally supports the treaty, which Defense Minister Pavel S. Grachev helped to negotiate with Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev.
General Grachev, an admired veteran of the Soviet war in Afghanistan, provided important cover for Mr. Kozyrev, a primary target of criticism from Mr. Yeltsin's foes, who have considerable weight in the Legislature.
Together, they were able to negotiate some important concessions from Washington on preserving more of Russia's existing nuclear investment and new inspections of America's most modern Stealth bombers. The concessions should make the new treaty more palatable to a legislature still touchy about the collapse of the Soviet Union.
If the coming battle over the treaty is expressed in military terms, its fundamental territory will be political.
But Mr. Yeltsin is being criticized now for behaving like the former Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who was ridiculed for making concessions to insure successes abroad while his country disintegrated at home.
President Bush is expected to spend only about 24 hours in Moscow, arriving at about 2 P.M. on Saturday for the signing. Officials announced today that he would leave about the same time on Sunday for Paris, where he will meet and have dinner with President Francois Mitterrand.
As officials of both Russia and the United States struggled today to hastily reorganize a hastily organized summit meeting and move it from Sochi, on the Black Sea, to Moscow, they were working to deflect criticism that in this matter, too, America was calling the tune. Russian officials said the decision was mutual and based solely on bad weather in Sochi, but White House advance teams were said to have been unhappy about the services in Sochi, including the lack of de-icing at the airport.
With Russia's newspapers silent for the New Year holiday and prominent politicians out of touch at dachas and bathhouses, discussion of this issue, at least, was muted, but lines were being drawn for what will be an energetic debate over ratification. The powerful speaker of the Russian Legislature, Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, has already said the treaty is too advantageous to the United States and permits too much access to Russian secrets.
These issues were taken up at the December sessions of the Congress of People's Deputies, with some conservative lawmakers echoing Deputy Mikhail G. Astafiyev, of Moscow, who accused Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Kozyrev of "high treason" and a "pro-American foreign policy."
The deputies' complaints were about a June agreement on American help to transport and dismantle Russian nuclear missiles safely. But the themes were of humiliation and subordination, tones struck on Thursday by Pravda in the headline, "They will have to answer to the Fatherland."
Pravda said the treaty, finished "secretly and in haste," held "grave dangers" to Russian security, which depended on its land-based strategic missiles. And it suggested that Mr. Yeltsin and the Government had no "independent military policy" but favored "a reckless subordination to American military strategists."
The treaty faces other difficulties. Ukraine, which inherited 176 missiles and some nuclear bombers from the Soviet Union, is dragging its feet onratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start I, and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Kiev, with its own severe economic problems, wants to insure that it will receive its fair share for the nuclear material extracted from its weapons in a plant Washington has promised to help build for the Russians.
Washington has budgeted the first $400 million for transporting and destroying old Soviet weapons, including $175 million for Ukraine. But some Ukrainian nationalists are afraid to deliver their weapons to Russia, their only likely enemy, without stronger security guarantees.
Despite the fervor of Russian conservatives, the Russian military command tends to be realistic about its needs in a post-cold-war Russia. Less money for nuclear weapons will mean more for a long list of military needs.
But Western diplomats suggest that the military-defense complex, the still-powerful industrialists who have spent their lives building Soviet-American nuclear parity, may raise more troubling objections. They have significant support in the Russian Legislature and a sympathetic ear from powerful figures including Yuri Skokov, the chairman of the National Security Council. Mr. Skokov also heads a new presidential body to oversee all of Russia's foreign relations, both diplomatic and financial.
The diplomats suggest that the industrialists, in return for supporting the treaty, are likely to insist on new investments to modernize existing weaponry and further Government credits during the transition to a market economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; TREATIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); BOMBINGS (66%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



27 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3345 words

HEADLINE: Freedom Under Arrest -- A special report;
Burmese Loosen Up; Outsiders Are Skeptical

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YANGON, Myanmar

 BODY:
Late last fall, a dark sedan carrying a group of olive-uniformed army officers raced down University Avenue in Yangon toward the home of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the dissident who won the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize for her campaign to bring democracy to Myanmar, the nation once called Burma.
As a group of startled neighbors looked on, the officers stepped from the car in front of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's lakeside villa and ordered laborers to begin rolling up the long coils of barbed wire that had been placed there the year before. 
 "One soldier told me that there was no need for the barbed wire anymore, that things were changing in Burma," said a driver for a foreign embassy who passes the house each day.
But like so many of the measures taken by Myanmar's military Government since April, when it began a liberalization campaign intended to end Myanmar's standing as an international pariah, the removal of the barbed wire from outside No. 56 University Avenue was a purely cosmetic change.
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi remains trapped inside the villa, a political prisoner now in her fourth year under house arrest. Her husband says she has been refusing food, though the Government denies it.
Foreign diplomats in Yangon, the gracious if decaying capital city that was once called Rangoon, say they welcome some of the Government's recent moves, in particular the release of hundreds of political prisoners, the end of military tribunals in civilian criminal cases, and the lifting of an 11 P.M.-to-4 A.M. curfew.
[The Government announced on Friday that it was reducing the sentences of prisoners convicted since 1988, The Associated Press reported. It said the order reduces death sentences to life imprisonment and any terms of more than 10 years to 10 years.]
The diplomats say the once unbearable tension in this nation of 43 million people has eased, especially in Yangon. But the Government's hope in making these changes is that they will attract new international aid and investment, which came to a halt after a 1988 crackdown on democracy demonstrators in which as many as 3,000 people are said to have been gunned down in the streets. Japan, long Myanmar's largest foreign donor, has signaled its eagerness to resume development aid.
But foreign diplomats -- and the Burmese who are willing to risk speaking to a visitor to Myanmar -- say the changes offer little hope that the generals who took power from a civilian government 30 years ago will ever agree to give up control.
The military has refused to accept the results of a 1990 election in which a democratic coalition allied with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi won an overwhelming victory. A carefully stage-managed constitutional convention being convened on Jan. 9 is expected to enshrine the military's dominant role in the Government, apparently beneath a facade of civilian control.
"Most of these reforms have to be considered cosmetic until the junta does much, much more to prove otherwise," said an Asian diplomat.
 
Democracy Movement Crushed
 The democracy movement in Myanmar has been crushed. Hundreds of the junta's opponents have been released from prison this year, but many more are still in custody, including a large number of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's most trusted supporters.
"Opposition? You can see for yourself that there is no organized opposition," said U Thakin Chid, a leader of the League for Democracy and Peace, a political party involved in the failed democracy movement in the late 1980's that has been banned.
Human rights organizations say the Government continues routinely to torture and even to murder political opponents. And the junta's persecution, they say, is not only politically motivated. More than 200,000 Muslims from the western province of Arakan have fled into Bangladesh over the last two years, saying they were the targets of a savage anti-Muslim campaign conducted by the Tatamaw, the Burmese armed forces.
 
Foreigners Invited Back
 The junta, insisting that it has been smeared by human rights groups and foreign governments that have no knowledge of what actually goes on in Myanmar, has opened the country to large numbers of foreign journalists for the first time in more than two years.
Its spokesmen say the junta has remained in power to hold together a nation that has always been a uneasy federation of distinct and often feuding ethnic groups. The Government continues to wage a fierce war on its eastern border against rebel Karens, members of a Thai-Chinese ethnic group from Kayah State who have been struggling for greater autonomy since Burma gained independence from Britain in 1948.
"All of the attributes you see in the breakup of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia are here," said Col. Ye Htut, a Government spokesman. "There is a feeling among the people here that, if the need arises, the military should step in, must step in."
But it is not a feeling that reaches across the capital to the Hi Cafe, a tea shop across from the leafy campus of Yangon University. An arts student in her mid-20's put down her tea cup and peered over her shoulder to make sure no one else was listening.
"The people want to control their own lives, but there is almost no hope for us," she whispered. "The Tatamaw has all the power. Our true leaders in the democracy movement are still in prison. My country is not important enough so that other big nations will come to help save us."
 
The Thaw
A Strongman Steps Down
 The slight thaw of Myanmar's political spring began on April 23, when the junta announced that its leader, Gen. Saw Maung, an architect of the 1988 crackdown, had stepped down because of what was described as ill health. General Saw Maung, who had babbled incoherently at public appearances in his final days in power, was widely believed to be going mad.
Within days of his departure, the Government announced that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi would be allowed family visits for the first time in two years, and that political prisoners who posed no national security threat would be released.
More than 700 people have been freed since then, including former Prime Minister U Nu, a leader in the pro-democracy movement who had lived under house arrest since 1990. Now 85 and ailing, U Nu is no longer seen as being capable of challenging to the junta.
In September, the Government ended the nationwide curfew that had been in effect since 1988 and announced an end to the use of military tribunals for civilians, a move that would restore at least a semblance of due process in civilian criminal cases.
 
Imported Beer and Jeans
 Foreign diplomats say that while fear is never far from the surface in Yangon, the mood in the capital -- a city of hulking British colonial buildings set side by side against the delicate gilded spires of ancient pagodas -- has not been so relaxed since 1988.
Before the curfew was lifted, anyone caught after 11 at night on the streets of Yangon or any other Burmese city faced arrest and a prison term.
In a liberalizing measure that startled many of Yangon's longtime residents, the Government decided in lifting the curfew to create a Western-style nightlife in the capital and sanctioned the opening of nightclubs.
Three have opened recently on the giant rooftop of the Theingyi Market, overlooking the city's most sacred landmark, the golden bell-shaped stupa of the Shwedagon Pagoda. By the puritanical standards of Myanmar, the entertainment is downright racy.
At the Ambassador Restaurant, young women female entertainers dressed in calf-length skirts or snug jeans parade down a rectangular runway, belting out the Burmese lyrics of Western pop songs, most of mid-70's vintage. Burmese men drunk on imported beer step up to the runway to drape the singers with metal-foil garlands or to offer them American dollar bills.
While the economy has been devastated by decades of rigid central planning, Myanmar still has a substantial middle class. What wealth there is in the country comes principally from the sale of teak and gems and other natural resources, from the thriving black market, and from the illicit production of opium. Myanmar remains the world's largest producer of opium, and foreign diplomats worry that senior Burmese military commanders are profiting from the trade.
Many Burmese can afford the new nightclubs and can pay for the consumer goods that the Government only in last few years has allowed to be imported into Myanmar in bulk. Japanese- and Korean-brand televisions and electronic equipment crowd the shelves of dozens of shops in Yangon and in the northern city of Mandalay. Even some small villages have video shops, where bootleg videocassettes of Burmese and foreign films are available for rent.
A Western diplomat in Yangon said the junta "appears to want to ply the intelligensia and the middle class -- the two groups that were behind the democracy movement and can cause the most trouble -- with luxuries that will make their lives more pleasant, just so long as they forget about democracy."
The air of menace has been notably reduced for foreign visitors and diplomats living here. They are no longer confronted with large dual-language signboards in Yangon that once trumpeted ugly propaganda in English and Burmese.
"Anyone Who Gets Riotous, Destructive and Unruly Is Our Enemy," a billboard a few hundred yards from Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's house proclaimed. A sign just outside the United States Embassy said, "Down With Minions of Colonialism."
The billboards are still up. They have simply been repainted so that only the Burmese-language version remains. "We Burmese can still read these signs," said a barefoot, red-robed monk near the Shwedagon Pagoda. "The threat is still there for the Burmese."
 
The Compromise
Opposition Party Redecorates
 The junta's success in crushing the democracy movement is perhaps best understood in a visit to the ramshackle headquarters of the National League for Democracy, the political party that won the overwhelming victory in the 1990 election.
Posters and photographs of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi that had once lined the offices have been ripped down, exposing the peeling paint beneath.
She was ousted from the party in December 1991 in what many opposition politicians are certain was a deal with the Government that allowed the party to remain in existence. The party is now led by U Aung Shwe, a former army brigadier who has been more accommodating to the Government.
"I'm sorry, but you must leave here," said a Burmese man, obviously embarrassed by his assignment to escort a Western visitor out of the party's offices. "I'm sure you understand our situation, why we cannot grant interviews now."
Asked why the pictures of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi had been taken down, his smile dropped. "We cannot discuss that personage," he said.
 
A Prison Wing All Their Own
 Many of the party's former leaders, including several who were elected to Parliament in 1990, are believed to be in a special political-crime wing of the notorious Insein Prison, outside Yangon. Of the party's members freed from prison in recent months, most have not returned to politics.
Myanmar's universities, once the center of the democracy movement, are under rigid surveillance. The universities opened in August after having been shuttered for most of the last four years.
When students and professors returned to Yangon University, they were startled to discover that thick brick walls had been built to separate the different academic departments on campus. "They want to make sure we cannot run away if they want to shoot at us again," an engineering student said.
Before they were allowed to resume teaching, the university's professors were required to attend Maoist-style re-education camps where, faculty members said, they were instructed to report on the activities of "politically questionable students."
 
Torture and Death
 In a report in October, Amnesty International estimated that at least 1,600 political prisoners were still being detained in Myanmar, including a 14-year-old boy imprisoned for putting up democracy posters in a school.
The junta, it said, has not shaken its "deeply entrenched disregard for human rights" and continues routinely to torture and carry out extrajudicial killing of its opponents.
Common tortures, it said, include "the helicopter," in which a victim is suspended by the wrists or feet from a ceiling fixture and spun, sometimes for hours, and the "iron road," in which an iron or bamboo rod is rolled up and down a victim's shins until the skin is shredded.
Colonel Ye Htut, the junta spokesman, said that the allegations of torture and Government-sanctioned killings were "concoctions" based on the false accounts of Burmese insurgents. He said that there are now fewer than 100 political prisoners in Myanmar prisons, and that they would be released when "the time is right."
Muslim refugees now living in squalid border camps in Bangladesh say they fled Myanmar after the army began a campaign of violent harassment, including rape and murder, motivated by its desire to create all-Buddhist communities along the border.
The Burmese junta says charges of a Government-sanctioned terror campaign are lies spread by Muslim fundamentalist groups in Bangladesh. Many of the refugees insist, however, that they are terrified of returning to Myanmar and would instead prefer to begin new lives in Bangladesh.
 
The Reform
Junta Is Shopping For a Constitution
 Foreign diplomats say that in recent weeks the Burmese junta has quietly approached selected embassies around Yangon requesting copies of their national constitutions.
The Burmese generals, preparing for next month's constitutional convention in Yangon, are said to be most interested in studying the Constitutions of Indonesia, Chile, Thailand and other nations that have both a strong economy and a domineering military.
The junta has already announced that whatever else the new Burmese Constitution says, it will guarantee the military's hold on power. In a broadcast on Yangon Radio in October, the military said that a new constitution must insure the armed forces "the leading role in national politics."
The generals, diplomats agree, still prefer the policies of repression and xenophobic political isolation begun in 1962, when the nation's last true civilian government was toppled in a coup led by Gen. Ne Win. The military has held effective control over the nation in the three decades since.
 
The Burmese Way to Socialism
 General Ne Win, a brutal and eccentric military commander whose circle of advisers has included numerologists and astrologers, pursued a policy he called the Burmese Way to Socialism, a path that quickly beggared what had once been one of the most prosperous colonies of the British Empire.
General Ne Win, 82, is officially retired and in May he placed a mysterious hand-written advertisement in the official Working People's Daily newspaper requesting that his portrait be removed from all government buildings. But diplomats and many Burmese believe that General Ne Win is still consulted on important Government matters.
Gen. Than Shwe, the junta's titular head, shares day-to-day authority with one of General Ne Win's proteges, Maj. Gen. Khin Nyunt, the head of military intelligence and a man much feared by the public. His title in the junta is Secretary 1.
"Than Shwe has a kind Burmese face -- he could be your uncle," said a shopkeeper in Mandalay's clamorous central market. "But Secretary 1 has the cold eyes of a killer."
While loyal to General Ne Win, the junta has said that it will abandon his isolationist economic policies by encouraging open markets and foreign investment.
The Burmese economy has fallen so far behind the miracle economies of Southeast Asia that it has more in common with the poorest nations of Africa than it does with some of its regional neighbors. The average annual household income is estimated at less than $300, and inflation for some staples like rice is nearly 100 percent a year.
While the average Government salary is about $10 a month, a plump goose can easily cost $2.50, which means that many Government officials must seek second or third jobs to eat. Government employees who deal with the public commonly demand "tea money" -- in effect, small bribes.
Although it has never proved to be of much concern to the military, malnutrition is widespread in a nation with some of Asia's richest agricultural land. The United Nations Children's Fund reported this year that than more than 10 percent of Burmese children suffered from severe malnutrition, meaning that their body weight is at least 40 percent less than it should be.
The military appears comfortable that for now it has crushed the political opposition. But diplomats say the junta may worry that an unreformed, stagnant economy will eventually accomplish what the democracy movement of the 1980's failed to achieve.
"If there's one subject that makes Burmese furious, it's food prices," a Western diplomat said. "The economic pressures on the Government are not overwhelming now. But if in a year or two there is a bad rice crop and prices skyrocket, you can imagine food riots that would get out of control and turn into a popular uprising."
 
The Price
A Diet of Rice And Emily Bronte
 In a nation that a generation ago was considered an educational leader in Southeast Asia, educational standards in Myanmar have collapsed. The country has bought almost no school books since 1962, when General Ne Win took power, and university science students are forced to depend on photocopies of photocopies of outdated science texts.
Because no modern English-language textbooks are available, secondary school students routinely learn from faded copies of "Wuthering Heights" -- not because Emily Bronte's mid-19th century English is appropriate for the study of the modern language, but because that is one of the few English-language books still widely available in school libraries.
The question of whether to resume some sort of aid to Myanmar draws an agonized response from major Western and Asian embassies in Yangon. Some diplomats argue that whatever the abominable human rights of the military, it is time to consider the resumption of development assistance to save a generation of young Burmese.
 
Japan Sees a Market
 Japan, which provided hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to the Burmese Government during the 1980's, halted new aid projects in 1988 to protest the crackdown on democracy protesters. But in part because of the urging of large Japanese corporations that see a potentially lucrative market in Myanmar, Tokyo has signaled its desire to resume aid.
"Do we really want a generation of Burmese who are so malnourished and so poorly educated that they will never be able to catch up with their neighbors if political change does come?" asked a diplomat from another Asian country. "The reforms we have seen so far from the Myanmar Government are only a start -- but they are a start."
The Japanese are reported to be urging the junta to take additional steps -- in particular, to ease the terms of confinement for Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi -- that would make Tokyo's resumption of aid more justifiable.
For now, the junta says Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi will stay where she is. Government spokesmen in Yangon say she has two options: to remain under house arrest indefinitely in Yangon or to leave Myanmar, with no promise that she can ever return.
Colonel Ye Htut, the junta's spokesman, said foreign governments and human rights organization were wrong to make a hero of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and to continue to isolate Myanmar as a protest over one woman's house arrest.
"It looks like they have more interest in one individual person than in the situation for over 40 million people," the colonel said. "To the West, we ask whether one individual should be of such primary importance. To us, she has never been a matter of life and death."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A mostly cosmetic liberalization campaign by Myanmar's junta is intended to attract international aid and investment. A billboard across from the United States Embassy in Yangon that used to say "Down With Minions of Colonialism" in both English and Burmese has been repainted so that only the Burmese version remains. After an 11 P.M.-to-4 A.M. curfew was lifted, the Government sanctioned the opening of nightclubs in Yangon. At the Ambassador Restaurant, Burmese men drank imported beer and draped singers with foil garlands or offered them dollar bills. (Photographs by Philip Shenon/The New York Times)
 
Map of Myanmar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: YANGON, MYANMAR (79%); 

COMPANY: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MYANMAR MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); YANGON, MYANMAR (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICAL PRISONERS; CONSTITUTIONS; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ARMIES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); SENTENCING (87%); ARRESTS (87%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); POLITICS (71%); HOUSE ARREST (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); CURFEW (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); SHOOTINGS (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



28 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: College's Fight to Survive Mirrors Plight of Many Black Campuses

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 1

 BODY:
Morris Brown College has never loomed large on the national stage -- not when it opened in a crude wooden building 108 years ago, and not in its current incarnation as one of six colleges in the mainly black Atlanta University Center.
But Morris Brown, now facing a $10 million budget deficit and fighting for its life, has come to symbolize many of the issues facing America's private black colleges as they try to square educational needs and financial ones in the 1990's. 
 Auditors are still trying to determine how the college's finances reached their current pass: last month officials said they needed to come up with $1.3 million to meet December expenses or face the possibility of closing.
 
College's Uncertain Future
 This week, the college said that it now planned to begin its spring semester as planned. But the problems run deep, and Morris Brown's future remains clouded.
Some of those close to the college say those problems could reflect as much about its management as about broader issues affecting other black colleges.
But officials here and with the United Negro College Fund, of which Morris Brown is a member, say its crisis also reflects a gap between some elite black colleges and the weaker ones, the relative strength of public black colleges as against private ones, and the conflicting currents buffeting nearly all black colleges at a time when they are trying to balance record-breaking enrollment with often-overwhelming financial needs.
Three decades after integration brought uncertainty about their chances of survival, the news at Morris Brown and other private black colleges is both good and bad.
The good news is that they are in demand as never before; their enrollment gains are far ahead of the national average. Even struggling Morris Brown doubled its enrollment during the last decade.
The bad news is that most of these colleges face financial circumstances that range from daunting to desperate.
"When you're talking about these schools, you're talking generally about who's a half-inch off the edge, who's one inch off the edge, and who's six inches off the edge," said William H. Gray 3d, the former House Democratic whip, who now heads the United Negro College Fund, founded in 1944 to raise funds and provide services for private predominantly black colleges. "If you take even the best private colleges and compare them with their white counterparts, even they aren't doing very well economically."
The 41 colleges affiliated with the fund, which are among 107 historically black four-year colleges in the United States, enroll 53,000 students.
Mr. Gray said about half a dozen of these 41 colleges were facing serious financial strains. In addition to Morris Brown, at least one other fund-affiliated college, Paul Quinn in Dallas, has struggled over the last year to keep its doors open. It occupies what used to be the campus of Bishop College, which in the 1980's became the only United Negro College Fund institution in the fund's 48 years that had to shut down because of financial problems.
 
Mirror of Black Colleges
 To some extent, Morris Brown is a mirror of both the potential and the perils facing private black colleges.
It was founded by the African Methodist Episcopal Church in 1881 and opened its doors in 1885 as the first educational institution in Georgia solely under black direction and control. It is named for an early bishop of the A.M.E. Church.
While its better-known neighbors in Atlanta, like Spelman College and Morehouse College, have competed with white schools for top black students, Morris Brown has stuck to a humbler mission: with an open-admission policy, it provides a college education to many students who might not obtain one elsewhere.
The statistics suggest that it is increasingly filling that need. Enrollment has increased to 2,030 students, a gain of 25 percent during the last five years and about 100 percent during the last decade. That growth has kept pace with a national trend. Enrollment at all colleges affiliated with the fund has also grown by 25 percent in the last five years, while enrollment at the nation's colleges and universities as a whole has risen at only half that rate. The gains reflect in part a rising tide of black awareness that has made historically black colleges increasingly attractive to black students.
At Morris Brown, the growth has also been a result of aggressive efforts of its former leader, Calvert Smith, to promote the college and repair its sagging physical plant. Mr. Smith was president for eight years until his resignation last August.
The college's growth has also been a reflection of costs. At about $10,000 a year for tuition and fees, room and board, and books and supplies, Morris Brown, like most colleges of the United Negro College Fund, costs a student far less than the national average.
Even so, few of its students can afford to pay their own way, and among the things that the auditors are now trying to determine is whether the college's enrollment gains resulted in part from providing more financial aid than it could afford.
Bob James, the newly appointed vice chairman of Morris Brown's board of trustees, said the college had nearly run aground because of overspending and lax budgetary controls. He said it appeared that during Dr. Smith's tenure, the college had offered in excess of $1.3 million more in scholarship funds than it had available and had overspent in other areas as well.
"We're still analyzing how the budget could have gotten this out of control," Mr. James said.
John Kokoszka, hired by the trustees to audit Morris Brown's books, said the college's financial records had not reflected the degree to which expenditures were exceeding revenues.
Dr. Smith, now a deputy superintendent of the Cincinnati public schools, said that there had been no mismanagement during his tenure, and that he stood behind audits indicating that the budget was balanced when he left. "Morris Brown has always had financial problems," he said. "Eight years ago, it had serious financial difficulty."
 
Meager Endowment
 With its aging red-brick buildings, Morris Brown looks very much like the poor relation when compared with the more modern campuses nearby at Spelman and Morehouse. The appearance is a reminder that Morris Brown has not received any of the large donations that have helped Spelman and Morehouse gain national attention in recent years. For example, Morris Brown's entire endowment is only one-quarter of the $20 million that the comedian Bill Cosby donated to Spelman in 1988. Some educators say this disparity is indicative of the degree to which the success of the fund's top schools has obscured the problems of their weaker sisters.
Mr. Gray says the important point is that none of the private black colleges are on economic footing comparable to their largely white counterparts.
"If you're asking how many are living really close to the financial edge because of low tuition, low endowment, not enough wealthy alumni, then you're probably talking about 80 percent of them," he said.
But he said Morris Brown's problems also reflected the degree to which the private black colleges had lagged behind the public black colleges in developing financial strength. Just as black political power has often outstripped black economic power, the growing black influence in Southern legislatures that has helped finance black public colleges has not had so powerful a counterpart for the private colleges.
Some of that may be changing.
The United Negro College Fund is in the midst of the most ambitious fund-raising drive in its history, Campaign 2000, which has raised $153 million toward its goal of bringing in $250 million over the three-year period that began in April 1990. And Mr. Gray said the growth of a black elite of athletes, entertainers and businessmen able to make substantial donations to black colleges would provide an opportunity that never existed before.
The college plans to cut expenses by 15 percent next semester and 25 percent for the coming academic year. Whether that will be enough to keep Morris Brown solvent while attracting and keeping students is uncertain.
On Thursday, Keeva Waite, a Morris Brown freshman from Los Angeles, was walking around a campus left deserted by the holiday break, hoping that the financial aid that the college had promised her would not be affected by the current problems.
"I know they are pretty low on money," said Ms. Waite, a prospective premed student. "If they don't have the financial help, I guess I'll go back home. Pray for me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Black campuses like Morris Brown College in Atlanta, above, are facing the task of balancing educational needs with financial needs. These colleges are in demand as never before, with large gains in enrollment. (Michael Schwarz for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORRIS BROWN COLLEGE (ATLANTA); ATLANTA UNIVERSITY; UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (82%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORRIS BROWN COLLEGE (ATLANTA); ATLANTA UNIVERSITY; UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (82%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BLACKS (IN US) HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (92%); BUDGETS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); CLOSINGS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; SMITH, CALVERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



29 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Cases of pregnancy discrimination are growing, many employment lawyers and women's organizations say. Staff reductions and management overhauls have given companies opportunities to save money by unloading or demoting workers whose personal circumstances may require special attention, in their view. New mothers, a group plagued by well-meaning misinformation as well as outright prejudice, are especially likely targets. [Page 1.]
Who should decide when a scientific claim is legitimate enough to put before a jury in a civil or criminal case? The United States Supreme Court has taken up a California case involving assertions that a drug caused birth defects, thereby tackling an issue with vast legal and ethical implications. The outcome could affect many contentious tort cases that attribute cancer to industrial chemicals, autoimmune diseases to breast implants and the like. [1.] 
 An increase in Federal gasoline taxes is not such a bad idea, the President-elect is being told by many advisers. And Bill Clinton, who repeatedly criticized Paul Tsongas and Ross Perot during the election campaign for supporting such an increase, seems to be warming to the idea. [37.]
Hawaii just endured its worst year for tourism in a generation, since the state's economy shifted from plantation agriculture to world-class resorts a generation ago. Odd as it seems, many Hawaiians are not sure if that is good or bad. "What we get from tourism is a lot of people stepping on the grass," said Prof. Ira Rohter, a political scientist who harbors a dark vision that further growth of tourism will bring the ultimate ruination of Hawaii's already desecrated tropical environment. [6.]
People who like quality circles are fearful that an N.L.R.B. ruling could make it difficult for workers to participate. The board appeared to retreat from using a case involving Electromation Inc. to make a definitive statement on employee-participation programs, as some expected it would. [38.]
 
Companies
Schwinn plans to ask a Federal bankruptcy judge for permission to sell most of its assets, including its name, to the Zell-Chilmark Fund and Scott U.S.A. Schwinn, which long dominated the markets for moderately priced and expensive bicycles through its network of independent dealers and mechanics, would receive nearly $41 million it needs to order its 1993 products. [37.]
 
International
 To break Paraguay's insularity, a group of young American-trained technocrats has opened a computer-equipped office dedicated to raising the country's profile in the world's highly competitive investment and trade markets. [37.]
The Burmese Government is hoping to attract international aid and investment with a liberalization campaign intended to end Myanmar's standing as an international pariah. But foreign diplomats say the changes offer little hope that the generals who took power 30 years ago will ever give up control. [1.]
 
Your Money
Older people are increasingly turning to reverse mortgages, which allow people 62 and older to receive cash in a lump sum or monthly, either for a few years or for the rest of their lives. The payments are generally based on the value of the home and the life expectancy of its owners. [35.]
More advisers are steering clients away from margin loans, partly because of the risks involved and partly because the tax breaks that used to make margin borrowing a good deal evaporated in 1991. Carole Gould: Investing. [35.]
Sales of long-term-care insurance policies are rising rapidly. But consumers face a complex set of choices in looking at the policies now offered by 130 different companies. The best policies pay for all medically necessary levels of nursing home care, including skilled, intermediate and custodial care, for as little as a year or as long as a lifetime. Leonard Sloane: Insurance. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MYANMAR (92%); PARAGUAY (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCOTT USA (52%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MYANMAR (92%); PARAGUAY (79%); HAWAII, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); LAWYERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); CANCER (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TORTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); JUDGES (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (70%); CHEMICALS (69%); ETHICS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); QUALITY CONTROL (55%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (54%); FUEL TAX (53%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



30 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

 NEW YORK CITY
 
 WHERE RACES MIX BUT DON'T MINGLE
Williamsbridge, a Bronx neighborhood, is a noteworthy place when the subject is the true state of race relations in New York City. Demographers say there are few places in New York quite like this, with whites, blacks and Hispanic residents living in almost equal proportions. And they have created a cordial standoff of integration without assimilation and a respect built on common economic status and aspirations. Page 1. 

 INVENTING THE NEW YEAR
Lacking the array of traditional holiday activities to turn to, many people throughout the city and the region seemed determined to find their own ways to create or continue their own singular traditions for welcoming 1993 -- including football games, poetry readings, symbolic foods and oceanic immersion. Page 25.
 
 FEWER KILLINGS REPORTED IN 1992
The number of reported homicides in New York City dipped about 6 percent last year to an estimated 2,020 killings, continuing a drop that police officials say could be attributed to a wide range of factors, from shifts in personal behavior to demographics to community policing. Page 25.
 
 DRESSING UP MIDTOWN'S BACK YARD
"Big Crinkly," a 24-foot-high standing mobile by the late Alexander Calder, will arrive in Bryant Park in mid-January for a temporary stay. The mobile, with red, blue and yellow metallic arms that swing with the wind, will be placed in an open area occupied in warmer weather by sunbathers and office workers taking lunchtime breaks. Page 24.
 
 REGION
 
 LIBERTY PARK, SLOW TO BLOOM
A new science center and a graceful promenade are the first major accomplishments in a 20-year effort by New Jersey to transform hundreds of acres of wasteland and marsh into a spectacular urban waterfront park. Some park adherents also hope that they will represent the breakthrough that provides impetus to speed up completion of Liberty State Park, whose development had been stalled by years of squabbling over planning. Page 27.
 
 SIGNS OF A SCHOOL SYSTEM IN CRISIS
Reduced to charts and graphs, the state of Hartford's schools was vividly displayed in a courtroom as civil-rights lawyers presented evidence in a suit seeking integration of the city's schools with those of its suburbs. What the charts show, a professor testified, is that public education in Connecticut's capital city is failing. Page 26.
 
 MIGHTY CARS, VULNERABLE ANIMALS
In the quintessential suburbs of Stamford, Conn., where the car is king, the merging of man and nature has led to concern over how to prevent the collisions that every year kill thousands of animals, large and small. The victims range from sparrows and squirrels to deer and cows. Page 27.
 
 SEARCH CONTINUES FOR MASTIC GIRL
The Suffolk County Police continued their search for the 10-year-old Mastic, L.I., girl missing since Monday, checking telephone records of her friends and relatives and tracing to a pay phone a frantic call she apparently made after she disappeared. Page 27.
 
 About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 24
Neediest Cases 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); STATE PARKS (70%); MISSING PERSONS (68%); HOMICIDE (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); ANIMALS (60%); MAMMALS (54%); POETRY (54%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDER CALDER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



31 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: In Hartford, Data Portray Schools in Crisis of Poverty

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WEST HARTFORD, Conn., Jan. 1

 BODY:
Reduced to charts and graphs, the state of Hartford's schools was vividly displayed in Superior Court here this week as civil-rights lawyers presented crucial evidence in a lawsuit seeking to integrate the capital city's schools with those of its suburbs.
On graphs showing the concentration of minorities and poverty in the Hartford metropolitan area, sharp spikes marked the city's place, high above its neighbors. On graphs showing students' test results, deep notches marked the city's performance, worst in all of Connecticut. 
 What the graphs show, testified a professor of education and sociology who prepared them for the case, is that public education in Hartford is failing under the burdens of the city's poverty and racial isolation.
 
Denial of Opportunity
 The city's children are denied an educational opportunity equal to that available elsewhere in the state, said the professor, Gary Natriello of Teachers College, and many leave school not even minimally prepared for adult life.
"You've got a tragic situation," he said. "There's no other way to characterize it."
Professor Natriello's testimony is central to the suit, which seeks to overcome the Federal courts' refusal to desegregate school districts across city lines, by arguing in a state court that the racial and economic segregation in Hartford schools violates Connecticut's constitution.
The defendant, the state government, says it is not responsible for the segregation, which is the result of housing patterns that have divided cities from their suburbs across the North.
But the suit says the state is responsible, because it has not acted to end the segregation.
The suit is similar to a landmark case in New Jersey known as Abbott v. Burke, which won increased school financing for that state's cities, arguing that they must spend much more to offer the same opportunities to poor children as schools serving middle-class children.
But the Connecticut suit, known as Sheff v. O'Neill, seeks much more than increased aid. Its goal is to break up the concentration of poor minority students in Hartford through a metropolitan desegregation plan covering the city and 21 surrounding towns.
For two days this week, Martha Stone, a lawyer with the Connecticut Civil Liberties Union, led Professor Natriello through a thick study he had prepared, mainly from the state's own education statistics on Hartford and its suburbs.
The study showed wide disparities between Hartford schools and suburban ones in nearly every category he examined, from scores on mastery tests that Connecticut requires in the fourth, sixth and eighth grades, to the amounts spent per-pupil on library materials and textbooks.
 
Disparities on Mastery Tests
 In 1991, for example, 59.3 percent of the children in West Hartford scored at or above the state's goal on the mastery test in mathematics; in neighboring Hartford, only 12.6 percent met the goal.
In West Hartford, 90.2 percent of the 1991 graduates took the Scholastic Aptitude Test, and the average score was 962, of a possible 1600. In Hartford, only 56.7 percent of a senior class already decimated by dropouts took the S.A.T., and the average score was 668.
Whatever its cause, Professor Natriello said, this gap in results violates the state's own definition of equal educational opportunity, in a policy guideline adopted by the state Board of Education in 1986.
"The goal of equity of access," he read from the guideline, "is that no group of students will demonstrate systematically different achievement based upon the differences -- such as residence or race or sex -- that its members brought with them when they entered school."
The poor performance of Hartford's students, he said, is a result of where they live: in a city whose schools are overwhelmed by the problems posed by intense poverty.
The problems of poverty, he testified, make the fact that Hartford spends more per-pupil than most of its neighbors almost meaningless. Much of the money is spent on special programs for bilingual or special-education students, and on psychologists and social workers. The city spends less than the state average on basic educational programs, even though its students need more.
Even where the city outspends other towns, on its teachers -- the average salary in Hartford is $44,525, compared with a state average of $41,361 -- it receives less, he said. Hartford has far fewer teachers with master's degrees, and twice as many first-year teachers.
In addition, he said, the children in nearly every classroom lack basic support from parents and their community: books at home, a place to do homework, a parent with the education to help with lessons.
Citing statistics on health, social and economic factors, Professor Natriello said that a teacher with an average fifth-grade class of 23 children would have 3 who were born with low birth weights, 3 born to mothers using drugs, and 5 born to teen-age mothers; 15 living below the poverty line, 15 living with single parents, and 8 living in inadequate housing; 21 members of minority groups; up to 12 from homes in which English is not spoken, and 9 whose parents do not work.
"Such is the stunning constellation of social problems that will confront the members, both teachers and students, in a typical class in a Hartford public school," he wrote in the report he prepared for the case.
Professor Natriello's description of the city schools' problems, like anecdotal ones offered earlier by teachers and principals, was, as he said, "depressing."
"We know, from national studies, that even left alone, students make progress," he said. "So the fact that we're finding so little change or progress is especially disturbing."
Such a bleak outlook could pose a political problem for any court order or out-of-court settlement that results from the lawsuit. While both the civil-rights lawyers and lawyers for the state say Connecticut supports integration, many suburban parents, hearing Professor Natriello, might wonder how their children would benefit by attending school with such troubled children from the city.
They might also argue, as New Jersey officials did in Abbott v. Burke, that the city's social problems are so overwhelming that spending more on its schools would be a waste of money.
Ms. Stone anticipated that response, asking Professor Natriello, "Given how bad things are, do schools make a difference?"
He hesitated. "If they had the resources," he said, "they could make a difference."
Earlier, he had offered the state's own answer, in another definition of equal educational opportunity adopted by the State Board of Education in 1984.
That definition, he said, said that progress in achieving equal opportunity could be measured by the lessening of disparities in such measures as resources and test scores.
"Equity in this sense," he read from the state's definition, "does not mean an equal distribution of resources; rather, it implies that those who need more must receive more."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "AT A GLANCE: The Plaintiff's Case" compares spending per student, composition of the student populations and student achievement in Hartford, West Hartford and Farmington with Connecticut state average. (Source: Connecticut Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); CITIES (72%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); STATISTICS (64%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



32 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Gasoline Tax Plan Is Reviving

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton, who repeatedly criticized Paul Tsongas and Ross Perot in the Presidential campaign for supporting an increase in Federal gasoline taxes, is hearing from a lot of his advisers that it is not such a bad idea after all, and he seems to be warming to the idea.
"There were a lot of good arguments made for the gas tax," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference after the two-day meeting on the economy that he convened in Little Rock, Ark., in early December. But he added, "No matter what the other merits of the gas tax are, you don't want to load it onto the inequality you already have" in the tax system. 
 During the meeting in Little Rock, the President-elect seemed surprised that so many speakers had ignored his campaign position on the issue and called eagerly for higher gasoline taxes.
 
Nation's 'Biggest Luxury'
 "I'm for a gasoline tax as a national security measure to reduce dependence on foreign oil, second as a conservation measure and third as a revenue-raising measure," said Felix G. Rohatyn, an investment banker at Lazard Freres & Company and a speaker at the conference. "The biggest luxury this country indulges in is its overuse of energy."
The Energy Department estimates that a 50-cent-a-gallon tax increase from the current level of 14.1 cents a gallon would cut gasoline consumption by 10 to 15 percent and would reduce oil imports, currently more than 7 million barrels a day, by 500,000 barrels.
Recognizing that the issue is fraught with political dangers, Mr. Clinton has stopped short of endorsing the idea outright. But one official on his transition team, who insisted on anonymity, explained why an increase in the gasoline tax has marched back onto Mr. Clinton's agenda. "The primary driver is the numbers they have to deal with to reduce the deficit," he said. "That means everything is on the table."
Advisers said the fact that Vice President-elect Al Gore backs increased taxes on energy has also nudged Mr. Clinton toward a higher gasoline tax. In addition, Alice M. Rivlin, the nominee for deputy budget director, joined a recent call for a $1-a-gallon increase in gasoline taxes, and Leon E. Panetta, the budget director-designee, has long said such a tax must be considered to rein in the deficit.
But Lloyd Bentsen, Mr. Clinton's choice for Treasury Secretary and a man with close ties to the oil industry, is not a fan of increased gasoline taxes. Some environmentalists say Mr. Bentsen's opposition, along with that of the oil industry and of millions of drivers, could prevent Mr. Clinton from ever embracing the idea.
 
'Americans Would Rebel'
 "A large increase in the gasoline tax has a low probability of being enacted because the American people would rebel," said William F. O'Keefe, executive vice president of the American Petroleum Institute. "It's incredibly unpopular outside the Beltway."
Millions of Americans, as well as the oil industry, loathe the idea of higher gasoline taxes, arguing that they would fall harder on those of modest incomes and would disproportionately hurt Americans in Western states, who often live many miles from the nearest big towns.
For months, Mr. Clinton lambasted higher gasoline taxes as unfair, complaining that they would hit the middle class hardest. But he appears to have reversed course, his advisers say.
A 50-cent-a-gallon increase would produce about $50 billion a year in revenues, and this would take Mr. Clinton a third of the way toward his goal of cutting the deficit by 50 percent, or $150 billion, in 1996.
One way Mr. Clinton has said he might consider a gasoline tax increase is in a package with other measures that would make the tax system fairer for the middle class. One Clinton adviser suggested that such a package could be expected to include higher income taxes on the rich and tax cuts for the middle class and might borrow heavily from Ross Perot's plan to raise gasoline taxes 10 cents a year for five straight years.
Mr. Clinton says a gasoline tax increase would be regressive, meaning it would consume a larger portion of the income of households earning $25,000 a year than those earning $250,000. But among the ways a Clinton Administration might offset that burden, advisers say, would be to couple a gasoline tax increase with an income tax credit or a reduction in the Social Security payroll tax.
 
Burden in Rural Areas
 Rural Americans will no doubt assert that raising gasoline taxes will be unfair. City residents who rely on mass transit far more than cars would be hurt less than Montana residents who live 75 miles from the nearest large town. The American Petroleum Institute says a 50-cent-a-gallon increase would cost households in Wyoming an additional $1,237 a year and households in New York $501 more on average.
"This would be a killer for North Dakota," the state's Governor, Edward T. Schafer, said in a telephone interview. "In a rural state, a lot of people depend on their autos not only to get to their jobs but during the harvest season to get supplies, to get parts for their combines. An increase in gasoline taxes would affect people here a lot harder. We just don't have mass transportation."
Environmentalists argue that an increased gasoline tax will not be so painful, especially if it is phased in over several years. They note that gasoline prices, after accounting for inflation, are about 40 percent lower than a decade ago. And even after a 50-cent-a-gallon tax increase, prices would be half those in Europe and Japan. France places a tax of about $2.80 a gallon on gasoline, while in Italy the tax is more than $3.50 a gallon. In Japan, the tax is about $1.70 a gallon.
In the United States, state and Federal taxes represent roughly 25 percent of the price of gasoline, with most states' taxes between 10 cents and 20 cents a gallon.
In Japan, taxes represent 42 percent of the price, and in France, 70 percent. Those countries are, of course, smaller than the United States, and their residents drive less. Americans drive more than 8,000 miles per capita a year, double the level in Europe and more than triple that in Japan.
"Gasoline taxes will push Americans to buy more fuel-efficient automobiles and to drive less," said Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California. "It will also help reduce pollution, and it raises a lot of money for education, for medical care for the uninsured, for a lot of things."
 
Carbon Tax Proposal
 Mr. Stark is sponsoring a bill to create a carbon tax, and President Clinton's advisers have suggested that he consider such a tax. A carbon tax would apply to coal, oil and natural gas with the aim of skewing energy use toward sources that produce less carbon dioxide. Many scientists believe that increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is causing global warming.
In the face of President Bush's pledge not to accept new taxes, proposals for gasoline taxes and carbon taxes did not move in Congress last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTION ISSUES FUEL TAX (95%); GASOLINE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CONSUMPTION (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (59%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



33 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii Is Rethinking Its Dependency on Tourism

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONOLULU

 BODY:
When final figures are in, 1992 will show the worst reversal for Hawaii tourism since the state converted its economy from plantation agriculture to world-class resort a generation ago. Odd as it seems, many Hawaiians are not sure if that is good or bad.
"What we get from tourism is a lot of people stepping on the grass," said Prof. Ira Rohter, a political scientist at the University of Hawaii who harbors a dark vision that further growth of tourism will be the ultimate ruination of Hawaii's already desecrated tropical environment. 
 While Professor Rohter's view may not reflect that of most of the state's 1.1 million people, he does capture a growing disaffection with the dominant industry, now a source of resentment as well as income.
 
Combined Blows to Tourism
 The number of visitors in 1992 was down nearly five percent from the level of 1991, which was not a great year, either. The combined effects of the deep recession in California, the chief source of Hawaii's tourists, and Hurricane Iniki in September, which ruined tourism on the island of Kauai, have intensified longstanding worries about having so many economic eggs in one basket. Further compounding the unease here is the decline in the nation's military spending, which accounted for nearly 10 percent of the Hawaii economy in 1990.
These have become paramount questions in Hawaii today:
Does the state really want to nearly double tourist arrivals by 2005, as projected? Does it make sense to spend $2.5 billion to expand Honolulu's airport, an effort that is already under way? Is traditional Hawaiian culture being prostituted for the sake of tourism? Is there anything the state can do to change?
And there is another question: How much does Hawaii actually profit from tourism to begin with?
Not much, say the critics, who argue that no sooner are the profits earned than they begin flowing out of state -- to mainland investors in Hawaii hotels and other tourist attractions and to exporters in Japan upon whom Hawaii, lacking economic diversification, depends for many goods.
 
Governor in the Middle
 Caught between the forces for change and the politically powerful tourism industry is Gov. John D. Waihee 3d, who counsels caution. "Tourism is our major industry; that cannot be denied," he said in a recent interview. He added that he felt the best strategy was to expand the tourism market, encouraging more European visitors, for example, while encouraging new industries like communications and scientific research.
"The real justification for diversification is a social reason," he said. "The general rule of progress is that people who work in hotels should not end up working in hotels. So we have to develop an economy that gives them a future."
 
Selling of a Paradise
 The vast development that led to this pass began after World War II, when Hawaii started selling a tropical paradise to Americans and later affluent Japanese. Golf courses were seen as ideal replacements for idled sugar and pineapple fields. The visitor count passed one million in 1967 and soared to a peak of nearly seven million by 1990 before declining, according to the Hawaii Visitors Bureau.
Today, about a third of Hawaii's $30 billion annual gross product can be attributed directly to tourism, said Gregory G. Y. Pai, Governor Waihee's special assistant for economic affairs. There is almost no manufacturing.
But success in tourism came at a price quite apart from the environment. With land scarce, tourist development drove up the cost of living. And because hotel and restaurant jobs pay poorly, average incomes dropped. Hawaii today finds itself in the odd position of ranking first in housing costs nationally ($335,000 is the median price of a house in the state) but 24th in average income. Rents and food costs are also among the highest of the states. That means thousands of Hawaiians work two or even three jobs to survive, and an exodus to the mainland has begun.
"We are caught in a classic service-job squeeze," Mr. Pai said. "And Hawaii gets totally jerked around by changes in the mainland and the Japanese economy. Hawaii needs to pay more attention to diversification."
Efforts at diversification include the new Maui Research and Technology Park on Maui, meant to encourage small high-tech concerns to feed off the military research conducted at telescopes on the island's Mount Haleakala. But progress there has been slow.
 
Visions of a Spaceport
 Others are trying to exploit Hawaii's natural advantages, in marine research, seafood culture and geothermal energy; to build a spaceport for launchings and landings, and to take advantage of the state's mid-Pacific location as a commercial and transportation hub for the Pacific Rim countries. For example, Media Five is a 20-year-old design concern in downtown Honolulu whose architects do commercial projects not only in the Hawaiian islands but also in San Francisco, Australia and Tokyo.
 
Help From the Time Zone
 In addition, Hawaii benefits from the time difference from the mainland, two hours earlier than California and five hours earlier than New York. East Coast law firms that need briefs written overnight sometimes contract out work to Honolulu firms and receive the data by electronic mail. And telephone marketing to the mainland during evening hours can be done during regular working hours here.
But none of this can easily overcome Hawaii's remoteness. "We cannot escape the concentration on tourism," said David L. Ramsour, senior economist at the Bank of Hawaii. "The concentration will diminish, not because of any strategies we can devise but because of new technology that will allow firms to serve clients all over the world regardless of where they are located. But tourism will always be where the fortunes of this state will be focused."
Diversification has been "a tough row to hoe," Mr. Pai said, because so much of the state's public resources are devoted to tourism. "For every dollar in tourism investment, we get five cents for other things," he said. "I advocate more diversification, but the visitor interests are very powerful and suck up a lot of resources."
 
Sovereignty Movement
 The issue is complicated by a sovereignty movement among Hawaii's indigenous people, whose leaders resent how tourism has exploited hula and other elements of native Hawaiian culture.
"The tourist industry returns nothing to us," said Haunani-Kay Trask, director of the Center for Hawaiian Studies at the University of Hawaii. "The profits are drained out, and it drives up the cost of living."
Professor Rohter says the benefits of tourism are illusory: Japanese visitors come to buy Armani fashions and Louis Vuitton handbags at the Ala Moana shopping center, and the profits go mostly to Italy and France. At the same time, the islands must import nearly everything, from furniture to telephones to food.
Professor Rohter argues that Hawaii could be more nearly self-sufficient by growing more of its own food. Economists like Mr. Ramsour and Mr. Pai are dubious. They say that even with shipping costs, the huge mechanized farms in central California can produce lettuce for a quarter of what it would cost to grow in Hawaii.
"It is not rational to try to outdo California lettuce growers," Mr. Pai said. "So the question is, How can we be part of global economic forces without hurting our people?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the number of tourists to Hawaiian locales like Waikiki Beach, above, declines, many are questioning whether tourism should remain the state's dominant industry. About one third of Hawaii's $30 billion annual gross product can be attributed directly to tourism. (Liliana Nieto del Rio for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Tourism in Hawaii" shows visitors in Hawaii from 1970 to 1992, and Hawaii's gross state product. (Sources: Hawaii Visitor's Bureau, Bank of Hawaii; Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL TOURISM (89%); LODGING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); TRENDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); HOTEL STAFF (66%); WORLD WAR II (65%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



34 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Schwinn Ready to Sell Most Assets

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 1

 BODY:
After 97 years of family ownership, the Schwinn Bicycle Company plans to ask a Federal bankruptcy judge here on Tuesday for permission to sell most of its assets, including its name, to the Zell-Chilmark Fund, an investment partnership that specializes in acquiring financially strapped businesses, and Scott U.S.A., a company in Sun Valley, Idaho, that makes ski equipment and bicycles.
The sale would provide Schwinn with nearly $41 million it needs to order its 1993 products from Asian suppliers in time to provide its 1,800 dealers with full inventories for the March-to-May selling season. Other terms, outlined in papers filed with the court on Thursday, could lift the total value of the deal to more than $60 million.
 
Family Would Lose Influence
 The Schwinn family, which owns the company through a trust fund, will end up with $2.5 million and the contents of the company's bicycle museum here. But it is expected to lose all influence over the company, and Edward R. Schwinn Jr., the company's chief executive and great-grandson of the founder, Ignaz Schwinn, is not expected to remain in that post, people involved in the bankruptcy say. 
 The deal will provide the buyers with Schwinn's trademarks, customer lists, contracts, inventory and records.
If Judge Jack B. Schmetterer grants permission for the sale, other bidders would have a chance to top the Zell-Chilmark-Scott offer at a hearing likely to be held later this month, said Arnold H. Dratt, a bankruptcy specialist retained by Schwinn after it filed for bankruptcy protection on Oct. 7.
Approval to consider the proposed deal would shorten an auction process that began last month and required sealed bids to be presented to the court on Feb. 1. Mr. Dratt said the new offer was a significant improvement over a Dec. 7 proposal from Zell-Chilmark and Scott, involving the same amount of cash, that was rejected by the company and some of its unsecured creditors.
Schwinn's plight, like the travails last year of giants like I.B.M., General Motors and Sears, Roebuck, drives home the difference between bearing a famous corporate name and boasting a healthy business.
Schwinn has never been the nation's largest bicycle company, and its market share during the 1960's never topped 25 percent. Analysts say its share of the $3.2 billion industry is about 7 percent and falling. Its fame rests on its leading role in creating a network of independent dealers and trained mechanics around the nation and its longtime dominance through them of the markets for moderately priced and expensive bicycles.
Thus, when the Baby Boomers took to two wheels, a Schwinn was often the bike they dreamed of getting. A 1990 survey by Landor Associates, a market research company in San Francisco, rated the Schwinn name as the best known among American consumers in all of sporting goods and 297th among all businesses, right behind United Air Lines and ahead of Doublemint gum.
 
Name Means Bicycles
 "Schwinn still means bicycles to the average person," said Thomas French, who founded Trek Inc., a bicycle maker in Waterloo, Wis., and is now general manager of Cycle Composites Inc., a company in Watsonville, Calif., that makes bicycles with carbon-fiber frames. Schwinn owns a 30 percent stake of Cycle Composites, which would not be included in the proposed deal.
Just how much that name recognition is worth has been one of the pressing questions of the bankruptcy proceedings.
"If there was anything unusual about this bankruptcy, it's that everyone came to the recognition early on that there was no prospect of reorganizing this company and that it should be sold," said Rob Larry, a partner in the Grabscheid Group Ltd, a Chicago firm that is advising Schwinn's unsecured creditors.
Schwinn's sales peaked at $212.5 million in 1988, according to records filed in the bankruptcy case. They were projected in October to be about $170 million for 1992. Although lack of cash precipitated the bankruptcy, the company was also suffering from lack of profits, with a $10 million loss projected for 1992.
Many of Schwinn's problems, including labor woes, high overhead and dependence on Asian suppliers who became direct competitors, had been visible in the industry for years. During the 80's, bicycle dealers say, Schwinn was often reasonably quick to recognize market trends like mountain bikes but not as deft as smaller competitors at exploiting them.
Newcomers like Trek Inc. and Specialized Bicycle Components of Morgan Hill, Calif., rode the surge in demand for mountain bikes to rapid growth. More recently, the Giant Manufacturing Company of Taiwan and the China Bicycles Company of China, manufacturers that Schwinn had turned to as it shut its domestic plants, have used the technology and distribution skills they learned from Schwinn to become major exporters of their own products to the United States.
 
Powerless to Stop Move
 China Bicycle's entry in the American market came with its purchase of the Diamond Back name and distribution network in 1990, a move Schwinn was powerless to stop even though it owned 33 percent of the Chinese company. That stake was reduced to 18 percent when China Bicycle sold shares on the Shanghai exchange this year.
Schwinn's stake would be eliminated entirely under the proposal filed Thursday with the court. China Bicycle is Schwinn's largest unsecured creditor, having shipped about $18 million worth of bicycles on credit before the bankruptcy filing. The Zell-Chilmark offer includes a provision to swap the stock for the debt.
If estimates in the court records that the stock is worth up to $40 million are correct, China Bicycle's final coup in the joint venture will be to exploit Schwinn's desperate need for a quick cash infusion to get full value for its unsecured debt while other creditors would be forced to settle for less.
 
Hailed for Use of Computers
 During the 1980's, Mr. Schwinn enjoyed a reputation as an outgoing executive capable of visionary thinking. He was hailed as an early adopter of computer-aided design and Schwinn became a leader in the exercise machine wave by acquiring and developing the Airdyne line. It also pushed bicycle dealers to exploit the fitness business.
A 1986 Business Week article said Schwinn was an example of a new trend, citing the company's withdrawal from most manufacturing to concentrate on design, distribution and merchandising, making it more of a network than a traditional corporation. A 1988 investment in a Hungarian bicycle plant, once seen as a step that put Schwinn in the vanguard of American companies positioned to exploit the opening of Eastern Europe, is now being criticized as a money-losing diversion.
The bankruptcy has also put a harsher light on the company's continuing support for its prestigious line of Paramount bicycles, which are largely made by hand in Waterford, Wis., and cost up to $5,000.
Paramount earns Schwinn the kind of respect from bicycle enthusiasts that auto companies get from supporting racing cars, but bankers see it as an indulgence that produces little or no profit, industry experts say.
 
Precariousness Largely Hidden
 The precariousness of Schwinn's condition remained largely hidden until 1992. The first unmistakable sign that the troubles might be spinning out of control came in the spring, when word leaked of an unsuccessful attempt to sell a controlling stake to outside investors. Still, the bankruptcy filing startled Schwinn's dealers and others.
"We have had some problem getting products over the past two years, but the bankruptcy was a surprise," said Eugene Amagliani Jr., whose family has been selling Schwinns in Memphis, since 1917. Like most dealers, Mr. Amagliani also carries rival lines.
In November, Schwinn laid off half its work force of 320 people nationwide, including 60 of the 120 people at its Chicago headquarters. Court papers suggest that without new financing, Schwinn would have to abandon half its dealers.
Schwinn's problems did not become overwhelming until it ran into the recession, and its banks became reluctant to let it borrow freely, a situation familiar to much of American industry in the last two years. The company's condition worsened rapidly over the summer. According to the company's bankruptcy filing, the bank credit squeeze reduced its secured bank debt from more than $64 million last Jan. 31 to $32.5 million.
As bank lending dried up, the company ran up its unsecured debt with its two chief suppliers, Giant and China Bicycles. Then they began to restrict their shipments.
One distressing aspect of the company's predicament, dealers say, is that sales are strong.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After 97 years of family control, the Schwinn Bicycle Company is about to be sold, if a bankruptcy judge approves. Schwinn's troubles are the latest proof that a strong brand name is not enough to insure corporate success. A cyclist checked out the company's line in Chicago in October (pg. 37); Schwinn's Paramount line of bikes is highly regarded but not profitable. Edward R. Schwinn Jr., chief executive, displayed a Team Paramount model in July. (pg. 39) (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SCHWINN BICYCLE CO; ZELL/CHILMARK FUND; SCOTT USA SCOTT USA (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); LANDOR ASSOCIATES (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCHWINN BICYCLE CO; ZELL/CHILMARK FUND; SCOTT USA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BICYCLES AND BICYCLING; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); JUDGES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); CYCLING (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); SKIING (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); MARKET SHARE (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (61%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); TRADEMARK LAW (51%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J EDWARD R SCHWINN JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



35 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Jean Mayer, 72, Nutritionist Who Led Tufts, Dies

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Dr. Jean Mayer, the Chancellor and former president of Tufts University whose work as a nutritionist helped clarify the nature of hunger and obesity and expanded the Federal food stamp and school lunch programs, died yesterday in Sarasota, Fla., where he was vacationing. He was 72 and lived in Boston.
Dr. Mayer, who was elevated to Chancellor on Sept. 1 after 16 years as the university's president, died of a heart attack, said Gail Bambrick, associate director of communications for Tufts, in Medford, Mass. 
 In a multifaceted career that spanned a half-century, the French-born Dr. Mayer earned the highest academic honors, was a hero of the Free French forces in World War II, became one of the world's leading nutritionists and directed pioneering research into problems of poverty, malnutrition, aging and obesity.
He also served as an adviser to three Presidents, helped develop national policies to combat hunger and improve nutrition among poor and elderly people, wrote 750 scientific papers and 10 books, taught for 25 years at Harvard and transformed Tufts from a small liberal arts college into a research university of international reputation.
 
Blend of New and Old Worlds
 A small, bespectacled man who became an American citizen after the war but never lost his French accent or Gallic jauntiness, Dr. Mayer (pronounced my-YAIR), was a perfect blend of European intellectual and American pragmatist: a charming, talkative, often stubborn educator who pushed the frontiers of knowledge in the laboratory and fought hunger and malnutrition wherever they flourished.
His personal philosophy -- that scholarship, research and teaching must be dedicated to solving pressing world problems -- helped to establish Tufts as a leader in interdisciplinary approaches to sustaining the environment, fostering good nutrition and preventing famine.
"The goal of ending hunger requires involvement, and Jean Mayer is an example of the rare breed of individual who has never hesitated to get involved when he saw a need," President Bush said in presenting the Presidential End Hunger Award to Dr. Mayer in 1989. Last year, he received another Presidential award from Mr. Bush for his environmental and conservation work.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, praised Dr. Mayer yesterday, saying: "Jean Mayer made hunger unacceptable in America, and today millions of healthy children have him to thank. All of us must continue his work until hunger is completely eliminated in this country."
 
Advised Presidents
 As an adviser to President Richard M. Nixon, Dr. Mayer organized the 1969 White House Conference on Food, Nutrition and Health, which assembled medical and nutritional experts, food producers, government officials and others and led to the introduction of food stamps for the poor in 307 counties and an expansion of the school lunch program for needy children.
Dr. Mayer had hoped for far more from the conference. His recommendations included a nationwide extension of food-assistance programs for the poor, a minimum annual income of $5,500 for a family of four, a national system for health and disability insurance, increased nutrition education, a 50 percent increase in Social Security benefits and mandatory enrichment of basic foods.
Also in 1969, Dr. Mayer led a mission to Biafra, in Nigeria, during the fighting at the time. He and his colleagues assessed starvation and other problems amid daily bombings that forced them to take cover in trenches, bunkers and ditches. His report to the President led to increase shipments of food, drugs and other relief supplies.
 
Many Relief Missions
 He also took part in relief missions to India, Ghana, the Ivory Coast and other impoverished nations, and in 1966 was among the country's first scientists to speak out against the use of herbicides to kill crops and foliage cover used by the enemy in the Vietnam war.
Many of his social ideas stemmed from his own pioneering research, notably his studies on obesity and the regulation of hunger. As a researcher at Harvard in the 1950's, he was credited with having discovered how hunger is regulated by the amount of glucose in the blood.
Focusing on obesity, which he called a "disease of civilization," he discovered how levels of phosphorus in the blood, the production of insulin and the function of the hypothalamus -- the brain's center for hunger and satiation -- contribute to excess weight.
He was early to note that obesity, combined with smoking, high-cholesterol foods, high blood pressure and lack of exercise, was a main cause of coronary heart disease among middle-aged American men and he advocated exercise to control weight and maintain health.
 
Accomplishments at Tufts
 After more than 25 years of teaching and research at Harvard, Dr. Mayer was named president of Tufts in 1976. In his 16-year tenure, he was credited with giving the university a new sense of identity, bringing it out from under the shadow of neighboring Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He raised the endowment to $200 million from $30 million, completed a $145 million drive for capital construction, created a graduate school of nutrition, built New England's only school of veterinary medicine and established a center for environmental management.
Critics said that in his drive to raise money and the university's name, he favored graduate schools and slighted the undergraduate programs. But others noted that he had built new undergraduate centers for science, languages and the arts, as well as a new dormitory, and had raised admissions standards and the academic quality of the undergraduate student body.
When he assumed the new post of Chancellor of the 6,500-student university, he planned to oversee development of new centers for biotechnology and pharmaceutical research. He was succeeded as president by John DiBiaggio, the president of Michigan State University.
 
Honors in Student Days
 Jean Mayer was born in Paris on Feb. 19, 1920. His father was one of France's most noted physiologists, and Jean won national prizes as a lycee student and at the University of Paris, where he matriculated in 1936 and took degrees with high honors in 1937, 1938 and 1939.
After the outbreak of World War II, Dr. Mayer was commissioned a second lieutenant in the field artillery and was captured by German forces in 1940. He escaped from a prison camp after shooting a guard, served with the French underground and as an agent for British intelligence in Vichy and later was on the staff of General Charles de Gaulle in London.
He fought with Free French and Allied forces in North Africa, Italy and France and saw action in the Allied invasion of southern France and in the Battle of the Bulge. He received 14 military decorations, including the Croix de Guerre.
After the war, he married an American, Elizabeth Van Huysen, and settled in the United States. As a Rockefeller Foundation Fellow from 1946 to 1948, he studied at Yale and obtained a doctorate in physiological chemistry. In 1950, he joined the faculty at Harvard and combined teaching and research with work as a lecturer, writer and consultant for many organizations.
 
Adviser to Many Groups
 At various times, he was an adviser to the United Nations Economic and Social Council and the Food and Agriculture Organization, the United States Public Health Service and the National Academy of Sciences. He helped to found the National Council on Hunger and Malnutrition in the United States.
As an adviser to President Nixon and to Presidents Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter, he often told the Federal Government that it was not doing enough, in his view, to fight hunger. He also testified often before Congressional committees and recommended improving nutrition for pregnant women, infants, nursing mothers, American Indians, the aged and poor school children.
Besides his wife, Dr. Mayer is survived by four sons, Andre, of Cambridge, Mass., John-Paul, of Chelsea, Mass., Theodore, of Larchmont, N.Y., and Pierre, of North Reading, Mass.; a daughter, Laura Mayer of Cambridge; a sister, Dr. Genevieve Masse of Rennes, France, and five grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jean Mayer (The New York Times, 1986)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TUFTS UNIVERSITY

ORGANIZATION: TUFTS UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (77%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; DIET AND NUTRITION; RESEARCH; DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION NUTRITION (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); DEATHS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (90%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (90%); OBESITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); MALNUTRITION (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); FAMINE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOOD STAMPS (77%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); AGING (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); CITIZENSHIP (54%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: MAYER, JEAN (DR); MCFADDEN, ROBERT D GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); TED KENNEDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



36 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: El Salvador Warned on Purge Deadline

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 1

 BODY:
The United Nations Secretary General warned President Alfredo Cristiani of El Salvador today that he appeared to have violated the agreement last month ending the 12-year civil war in his country by not meeting the deadline for the purge of army officers accused of human-rights abuses.
But a senior State Department official and a Western diplomat in El Salvador familiar with the process said that they thought it was only a matter of a short delay and that Mr. Cristiani intended to proceed with the purge within a few days. 
 "We don't take this lightly," the State Department official said in Washington., "But, in our view, it has not reached a crisis situation at this time."
Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said in a brief statement issued in Geneva that the movements of officers described in a general order issued to the country's armed forces by the Salvadoran Defense Ministry on Thursday "do not conform to the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Commission on the purification of the armed forces for the discharge or transfer of a specific list of officers which President Cristiani agreed to carry out in full."
The official in Washington noted that there have often been delays during the long process of negotiating and carrying out the peace accords in El Salvador and said he was encouraged by the fact that Mr. Cristiani and the former guerrilla leaders of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front were still holding talks about the matter.
A Western diplomat in El Salvador said in a telephone interview that President Cristiani had been working on a plan to carry out the purge with an internal, or supplemental, order that would be known only to him and the men involved.
Because of the long New Year's holiday, repeated efforts to reach Salvadoran Government officials and leaders of the Marti Front were unsuccessful. Mr. Cristiani's spokesman, Ernesto Altschul, was reported to be vacationing.
The secrecy surrounding the issue reflected Mr. Cristiani's great concern that a misstep could lead to further unrest within the army and have a destabilizing effect on the Government at this critical time.
 
Cristiani's Removal Rights
 Although all involved in the purge dismiss the possibility of a military coup attempt, the army's top leaders -- most of whom are believed to be on the purge list -- have complained bitterly in recent weeks that they are paying the highest price for peace. They argue that their careers are being abruptly ended while the former guerrilla commanders have the chance to move immediately into political life.
The 12-year Salvadoran civil war was officially declared over in a ceremony on Dec. 15 after 11 months of efforts by the Government and the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front to carry out a broad range of commitments intended to disarm the country and bring political and economic changes.
But at the ceremony, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, and Vice President Dan Quayle emphasized the importance of going ahead with some measures still to be completed. Mr. Quayle reminded the Government and army indirectly that continued American aid was contingent on full compliance with the accords, particularly the army purge.
Under the terms of the agreements mediated by the United Nations, Mr. Cristiani had the right to remove or transfer those on the purge list any way he saw fit. The list, drawn up by a commission of three independent lawyers appointed under the peace accords, is believed to number 110 men of the rank of lieutenant colonel and higher, including the Defense Minister, Gen. Rene Emilio Ponce.
 
Selection Process Assailed
 Until recently, it had been widely presumed that Mr. Cristiani would carry out the purge by including the mens' names on the general orders published at the end of each month listing routine changes and retirements. But as the officers in the group expected to be affected became increasingly restive, he reportedly began to look for a less public way to do it.
Since mid-December, Mr. Cristiani has held a series of meetings with top leaders of the former guerrilla front aimed at easing the effects of the purge. People familiar with the discussions said Mr. Cristiani was seeking to remove some people from the list, like as General Ponce, or to drag out the execution of the purge over the next several months.
The argument in favor of the changes or delays was that they would contribute to stability.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In November, President Alfredo Cristiani of El Salvador handed out diplomas to graduating cadets of the country's military school as Gen. Rene Emilio Ponce, center, the Defense Minister, watched. General Ponce is believed among the high-ranking officials on Mr. Cristiani's purge list. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR EL SALVADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); COUPS (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: CRISTIANI, ALFREDO (PRES); BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN) ALFREDO CRISTIANI (94%); BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



37 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: An Increase in Bias Is Seen Against Pregnant Workers

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
Five weeks after giving birth to triplets last year, Joan Levine received a phone call from the head of FCB/Leber Katz Partners, the advertising agency in New York where she had worked for 12 years. He called to say another woman would get a chance at her job.
It was all part of a corporate reorganization, she was told, and when she returned in three weeks she should check with the personnel department. Instead of her old position, supervising 20 workers, she was asked to take a new post with a staff of one. 
 The case, say employment lawyers who represent plaintiffs, is typical of the tough issues that characterize pregnancy discrimination cases in the 1990's. Staff cuts and management overhauls have given companies opportunities to save money by unloading workers whose personal circumstances, they think, may require special attention. New mothers, a group plagued by well-meaning misinformation as well as outright prejudice, are especially likely targets.
 
'Pushed Off the Fast Track'
 "It's usually not outright termination, but coming back to lesser functions," said Janice Goodman, the Manhattan lawyer who represents Ms. Levine. "They get pushed off the fast track."
With the offer of a new job, the advertising company fulfilled its obligation to allow Ms. Levine to return to work, with her $57,000 annual salary and benefits. But she contends that the position was invented to protect the agency from a lawsuit and that it was unlikely to survive the cutbacks sweeping the industry during the recession.
Leber Katz denies her charge. Sherry H. McGann, the agency's director of human resources, said, "The job is very real and fully functioning today."
Ms. Levine declined the position and filed a complaint with the New York State Division of Human Rights, contending that she was forced out.
 
Harder to Prove
 "Word is out that Federal and state law prohibits pregnancy discrimination," said Sally Goldfarb, senior staff lawyer for the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund in New York. "So employers are typically more devious and couch discrimination in other terms. During an economic downturn, employers can mask pregnancy discrimination as layoffs and downsizing, which makes it harder to prove the underlying discriminatory motivation."
It is hard to find statistics on pregnancy-discrimination cases. But employment lawyers and women's organizations across the country say the problem is growing.
"It's raising its head again," said Kathleen M. Lucas, an employment lawyer in San Francisco who said the last time she got clusters of calls about pregnancy discrimination was after the passage of the Pregnancy Discrimination Act in 1978.
In 1992, for the first time in several years, the number of pregnancy discrimination complaints at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission rose slightly, to 3,186. But the numbers do not tell the whole story. Many women's groups, plaintiffs' lawyers and complainants themselves say the commission is slow to move and often ineffective -- charges the E.E.O.C. has repeatedly denied over the years.
"The number of cases the E.E.O.C. or other agencies gets are a very small tip of the iceberg," said Prof. Ann C. Wendt, who does research on employment discrimination. A 1991 study she did with William Slonaker, a colleague at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio, found that almost a quarter of the women who filed complaints with the commission reported losing their jobs when they tried to return to work.
At last count, 58 percent of women 16 or older -- 57 million -- were in the work force, and each year 2 million have babies. More than four-fifths of employed pregnant women have full-time jobs and 85 percent of working women are likely to become pregnant during their careers.
The problem appears to affect women of all occupation and class categories. "Pregnancy cases really span the economic spectrum," said Maria Blanco, a staff lawyer at Equal Rights Associates, a public-interest law firm in San Francisco that runs a discrimination advice and counseling phone line. The most egregious cases -- " 'you're pregnant, you're fired' -- are in lower-paying work where the jobs are fungible," she said. "Bank tellers, waitresses -- where they can get someone else."
Up the occupational ladder, discrimination changes character. Ms. Blanco is seeing more and more "return-to-work cases," when women begin to have problems after they return to work. "Those are hard legally, because the person's not pregnant anymore," Ms. Blanco said.
 
Fallout of A.T.& T. Case
 Certainly employers do not now impose policies like the one that led to a class-action discrimination suit against the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. During the 1960's and 70's, A.T.& T. -- like other companies of the era -- required women to leave their jobs six or seven months into their pregnancies, restricted the amount of seniority they could accrue and gave no guarantee that they could return to work.
A.T.& T., now widely regarded as a corporate leader on family issues, changed its policies in 1978 and settled the discrimination case last year for $66 million. Burke Stinson, an A.T.& T. spokesman, said: "The policy was very much in keeping with the times. For us, the hurdle was getting pregnancy out of the 'I Love Lucy' protect-the-woman frame of mind and into the temporary-disability frame of mind."
Employers were prodded into that frame of mind by lawmakers. Since the mid-70's, a layer cake of state and Federal protections has developed for pregnant workers. The Pregnancy Discrimination Act made it illegal for employers to treat pregnancy differently from any other disability. If a company holds a job for a man who has a heart attack, for example, it must do so for a woman who is pregnant.
Several states have passed maternal leave or family-leave laws that extend to workers the right to leave for birth or adoption. Some states, including New York, include pregnant women in their temporary-disability insurance coverage.
President Bush twice vetoed the Family and Medical Leave Act, which requires companies with 50 or more employees to grant up to three months of unpaid leave to care for newborn infants or sick relatives without losing their jobs. President-elect Bill Clinton has promised to sign such a measure.
The act, which will probably be reintroduced on the first day of the new legislative session next week, represents a compromise between advocates of more extensive paid leave and business interests that complain about potential costs.
Protections extended to pregnant workers are based on the premise that pregnancy is a disability, an approach that can prove awkwardly for women returning to work.
 
The European Example
 In Europe, pregnancy is treated as a normal part of life, and support services, including extensive day-care networks, are available. "Europeans laugh at us, treating pregnancy like a disability, as if you broke your arm," said Dana Friedman, co-director of the Families and Work Institute, a New York research organization. "You come back, and you're cured from having a child. You're supposed to return as if nothing has changed."
Yet change does occur, and research, as well as the experiences of particular women, suggests that it is more likely to be in the minds and behavior of managers than in the returning worker.
"One problem is the lingering perception that women who are pregnant or who have recently given birth are not reliable," said Ms. Goldfarb of the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund. Employers are generally sophisticated enough not to attribute any post-return changes in a woman's circumstances -- including dismissal -- to pregnancy.
Often, women who have received excellent ratings for years will suddenly get a bad review. One woman who always received good reviews during several years of part-time work at a well-known baby-products company received lower evaluations and had her hours cut after the company learned she was pregnant. Fearful of losing what is left of her job, she asked that her name and her employer's name not be disclosed.
 
Recalling Past Examples
 In fact, studies of women and pregnancy leaves have found that the stereotype of the ambivalent new mother who cannot decide whether to return to work is just that -- a stereotype. A manager will say, " 'I once had a pregnant woman who didn't come back, so this one won't come back,' " Ms. Goodman said. "They dig back 20 years for examples."
A study by the Families and Work Institute found that 84 percent of women expecting children work into the final month of the pregnancy and two-thirds return to work within six months of the birth of their child, roughly a third are back within eight weeks, and half within three months.
Yet once they do return to work, women may find they have to prove themselves all over again, even while feeling guilty for taking time off. "I hear from women that they feel if they use a policy they are entitled to use, they won't get a promotion and won't be seen as a team player," said Ellen Bravo, national director of 9 to 5, an organization for working women.
When Lisa Buksbaum returned to her vice president's job at Lintas New York, a New York ad agency, she glued her nose to the grindstone. "I did the good girl thing," she said. "I came back and worked hard. I didn't want them to say they owed me anything."
Ms. Levine, who worked for FCB/ Leber Katz, is looking for work, taking care of her children and waiting for a state ruling on the results of a hearing in May.
The baby-products company worker, who is pregnant with twins, is on disability and does not know if she will return to work.
Ms. Buksbaum started her own company, Boxtree Communications, which, she says, is doing well. And once a month or so, as a sideline, she gives seminars on the emotions and psychology of being pregnant at work.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pregnancy discrimination is a growing issue of the 1990's. After giving birth to triplets, Joan Levine was informed that she was being shifted from a job overseeing a staff of 20 to supervising one person. Until her complaint is resolved, she is at home, tending to, from left, Andrew, Sara and Emily. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 39)
 
Graph: "Stronger Voices" shows complaints filed at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. from 1987 to 1992 (Source: E.E.O.C.)(pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION; AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) FCB/LEBER KATZ PARTNERS (91%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION; AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; WOMEN; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); WOMEN (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, JOAN; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



38 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Ashikaga Journal;
A Festival That Permits Japanese to Be Impolite

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ASHIKAGA, Japan, Jan. 1

 BODY:
The life of a typical Japanese -- working endless hours, enduring long commutes on packed trains and adhering to rigid rules of behavior -- would drive many Americans to the brink of rage. But Japanese seem to bottle up any anger and maintain their world-famous politeness.
Except just before midnight on New Year's Eve in Ashikaga. 
 In this city about 50 miles north of Tokyo, people take this one occasion to let it all hang out and say what they really think about the year gone by. In one of the strangest festivals in a country full of festivals, they walk up a dark mountain road to a temple screaming curses into the starry night sky that they would never say directly to their fellow man.
"Once a year, we can get rid of our pent-up frustrations," said Ryoken Numajiri, the head priest of the Saishoji Temple. The temple is the headquarters for the Akutare Matsuri, which might best be translated as the "naughty festival" or perhaps the "festival of abusive language."
 
Plenty Worth Abuse
 This year, of course, there was plenty for the roughly 400 participants to be abusive about, what with a national political scandal, the economy in the dumps and the stock market continuing its three-year slide. This city of 170,000 did not escape the pain, with the nearby electronics and automobile factories reducing overtime hours and part-time jobs.
"This is a chance to speak up," Mitsuo Arai, a 44-year-old clothing salesman, said before the procession began. Asked what he would be complaining about, he said, "Kanemaru, of course," referring to Shin Kanemaru, a political kingmaker who resigned last year after he admitted taking millions of dollars from a company linked to mobsters. Politicians in general, Mr. Arai said, "just want to earn money for themselves."
But other marchers complained about daily life, about too much schoolwork, or poor grades on tests. For some it was just an opportunity to escape from normal social strictures. "Women are not allowed to say such words," said Miyoko Kuwako, a housewife. "But it's O.K. tonight."
The festival, which is the only one of its kind in Japan, originated more than 200 years ago as a relief valve for repressed workers, Mr. Numajiri said. At that time, he said, women were brought in from the surrounding countryside to work in factories making material for kimonos. The work was arduous, and the hours were long. But in return for persevering through the year, their boss would take them to the temple once a year so they could let off steam.
Japanese place a high value on patience and perseverance. Even when they do let loose, Japanese curses are mild by American standards, with a more limited selection of swear words.
 
A Traditional Curse
 The main word shouted by the festival participants was "bakayaro!" which might be literally translated as "you idiot" but sometimes has the connotation of "God damn it." It is the expletive a Japanese driver might yell out the window when another car suddenly cuts in front of his. It might not seem so bad, but it is one of the closest things here to a four-letter word.
New Year's Eve and New Year's Day are traditionally times when millions of Japanese, some clad in traditional kimonos, flock to Buddhist temples or Shinto shrines. But not in the way they do it in Ashikaga.
At 11 P.M., about 200 people began walking up a mountain road to the Saishoji temple led by a man blowing a shell known as a horagai, which is supposed to fend off bad tidings. Many were carrying lanterns and wearing cardboard hats bearing the picture of Bishamonten, one of the seven gods of fortune in Japanese Buddhism and the god in whose honor Mr. Numajiri's temple was built 1,200 years ago. Another 200 people or so followed in buses.
Cries of "bakayaro!" split the night, the extended final "o" sound trailing off into the sky like a coyote's howl. Occasionally there was a more specific complaint like "My teacher is an idiot!" or "Give me a raise!"
After a 40-minute walk, the crowd stormed up the steps to the temple, which is situated atop a 1,000-foot-high hill. The crowd rang the temple bell, clapped their hands and prayed, and bellowed a few more lusty bakayaro's to exorcise the year gone by.
 
Insults Disappear
 But at the stroke of 12, the insults turned to cries of "congratulations" and "Happy New Year." Many of the worshipers went inside for another ceremony that is unique to this temple, in which people drink sake that is poured onto their foreheads and drips down their faces. The ceremony is supposed to insure that happiness will flow in the year ahead.
Mr. Numajiri, wearing a billowing green robe, called out the name of each worshiper and read aloud his or her wishes for the new year, which the visitors had conveniently circled on multiple-choice lists handed them at the door.
The person whose name was called knelt on the floor and raised a wide red lacquer bowl to his or her lips. As a big taiko drum was pounded, Mr. Numajiri poured the sake onto the person's forehead, and the sake ran down the nose and into the bowl and was consumed.
After venting their anger over the year past and drinking to the year to come, participants said they felt relieved, ready once again to do battle in the factories and offices and crowded trains of modern Japan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Once a year, we can get rid of our pent-up frustrations," said Ryoken Numajiri, the head priest of the Saishoji Temple in Japan. The temple is the headquarters for the Akutare Matsuri, the "naughty festival" or the "festival of abusive language." Mr. Numajiri poured sake onto the forehead of a worshiper who drank as it poured down his face. (Kasumi Wauke for The New York Times)
 
Map of Japan showing location of Ashikaga.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; ASHIKAGA (JAPAN) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MANNERS AND CUSTOMS; NEW YEAR; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; PROFANITY OVERTIME (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICS (71%); MOUNTAINS (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



39 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Paraguay Raises Its Profile As a Center for Investment

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ASUNCION, Paraguay

 BODY:
For decades, the only press Paraguay received was a bad press: a stereotyped Latin American dictatorship where unrepentant Nazis mingled with fugitive heroin dealers and homegrown cigarette smugglers.
Then in 1989, the aged dictator fell and democracy sprouted. Stripped of notoriety, Paraguay saw its image problem become one of no press. Landlocked and located in South America's heart, Paraguay seemed fated to once again become "an island surrounded by land." 
 To break this insularity, a group of young American-trained technocrats has opened a computer-equipped office here dedicated to raising Paraguay's profile in the world's highly competitive investment and trade markets. The office, emblematic of free-market changes sweeping this California-sized nation, is so new that workers have yet to raise a sign introducing the group, Pro Paraguay, to the masses.
 
Entering the Modern Era
 "Pro Paraguay is dedicated to helping to bring Paraguay into the modern era by promoting trade and diversifying exports," said Deputy Commerce Minister Martin Burt. Looking to Chile for inspiration, Mr. Burt said, he modeled Pro Paraguay after Pro Chile, a Government agency that in the last two decades has helped Chile triple exports and attract billions of dollars in foreign investment.
But Paraguay may have a harder time attracting investors than its neighbor has had. "Pro Paraguay still has not come up with a persuasive answer to the question, 'Why Paraguay?' " one American economist here said. "The fact is that they haven't attracted any major investments. Even in Communist China, you can get a 10-year tax holiday."
What the promotion office is counting on as its selling points are cheap power, transportation improvements, free-market changes and, perhaps most important, a new common market with Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay that will take shape at the end of 1994.
Already, Paraguay simplified its tax code last year, reducing the number of taxes from 84 to 7. The number of bureaucratic steps needed to export goods was also cut sharply, from 86 to 19. Guided by technicians borrowed from Pro Chile, Paraguay plans to open a one-stop office for exporters this year.
To lure foreign investors, Paraguay's new Government has lifted foreign exchange controls, has exempted new foreign investments from taxes and customs duties for five years and has passed laws erasing distinctions between foreign and domestic investors and allowing international arbitration of disputes involving foreign investors.
 
U.S. Restored Trade Incentives
 Encouraging these economic moves and recognizing Paraguay's move from dictatorship to democracy, the United States restored trade and investment incentives in 1991. After a hiatus of several years, Paraguay was reinstated as a beneficiary of Washington's Generalized System of Preferences and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
On March 1 the Asuncion stock exchange is scheduled to open, connecting Paraguay with capital markets in Argentina, Brazil and Chile. Later in the year, Paraguay expects to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
"Paraguayan laws on foreign investment are among the most liberal in Latin America," the latest American Embassy report on economic trends here says.
Rare for Latin America, Paraguay has benefited from years of sober macroeconomic management. In 1991, Paraguay's 12 percent annual inflation rate was Latin America's lowest. In 1992, it rose to about 18 percent, still below the monthly rate in neighboring Brazil.
The foreign debt, $1.7 billion, is also Latin America's lowest, when measured per capita. Reserves of $850 million are equal to half the foreign debt. Reflecting widespread global approval of economic policies here, Paraguay is expected to receive an unprecedented level of multilateral bank financing from 1993 to 1995 -- $250 million a year.
But, damaged by droughts and floods, Paraguay's largely agricultural economy grew by only about 1 percent in 1992, falling below population growth for the first time in seven years.
"Despite the incentives offered to investors, private investment was sluggish," said the American Embassy report, which noted that American investment here totaled only $35 million.
Indeed, during the first half of 1992, Paraguay's National Investment Council approved 235 investment projects, totaling only $133 million.
Accustomed to such skepticism, Peter Jones, the agency's American deputy director, replied with a word still unfamiliar to most American business people: Mercosur.
Under the Treaty of Asuncion, signed here in 1991, the Presidents of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay promised to institute a Southern Cone Common Market, called Mercosur in Spanish, by the end of 1994. Already, Paraguay, has reduced its top external tariff, for imported consumer goods, to 10 percent.
"Obviously, there is very little interest in putting a factory in a country with four million consumers," Mr. Jones said. "But when you start talking about the Mercosur common market, the picture changes."
Indeed, on Dec. 31, 1994, Paraguayan exporters will see their tariff-free market expand to 200 million people, 50 times its present size. Paraguayan products will be two days by container from a huge share of a gross regional product of $420 billion.
"Paraguay will be very close to the filet mignon of the Brazilian market," said Brazil's Ambassador here, Carlos Eduardo Alves de Souza. A few weeks ago, the Ambassador accompanied a Pro Paraguay trade and investment mission to Porto Alegre to discuss opportunities with business executives from southern Brazil.
Mercosur, coupled with an improving transportation network and some of Latin America's lowest electricity rates, is expected to encourage industrialization in areas where Paraguay has a competitive advantage.
Cotton and soybeans, largely unprocessed, account for about 70 percent of Paraguay's exports. A Brazilian group is completing a plant that will convert 600,000 tons of soybeans a year into meal and oil. Taiwanese investors are studying projects to convert Paraguayan cotton into thread and cloth.
"We need to industrialize our primary products," President Andres Rodriguez said in an interview. "We export cotton in bales, and then we import cloth."
A major attraction is a wealth of electric power flowing from the Itaipu dam, which Paraguay shares with Brazil. In 1995, when Yacyreta dam is completed with Argentina, Paraguay is to become the world's largest exporter of hydroelectric power.
Attracted by cheap and plentiful power, one Japanese aluminum company and three Southern Cone ferroalloy companies are negotiating setting up operations in Paraguay.
To reduce landlocked Paraguay's isolation, planners are turning to the Paraguay River, a waterway once described by a local poet as the nation's "liquid spinal cord."
 
Accord on Regional Waterway
 In June, the Foreign Ministers of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay signed an agreement to convert the Paraguay-Parana river system into a regional "Hidrovia." To be opened over the next decade, this 2,400-mile long waterway will allow barges to bring containers from central Brazil through Paraguay to deepwater ports on the South Atlantic coast.
Financed in large part by the Inter-American Development Bank, the Hidrovia is expected to spur Paraguay's development. Initially, construction employment will expand because most dredging and straightening work will have to be performed on the 785-mile stretch of river that cuts through central Paraguay. Then, Paraguayan ports will benefit from increased river traffic and Paraguayan exporters will benefit from lower transportation costs.
"The Hidrovia will cut container transportation costs in half," Mr. Burt, the Deputy Commerce Minister, predicted.
Paraguayans make no secret of their hope that their free-market policies, abundant power, improved transportation and aggressive promotion will make their country an agro-industrial Chile of the 1990's.
"We believe very strongly in Pro Paraguay," said President Rodriguez, whose term expires next August. "We hope it will work just the way Pro Chile did in Chile, creating enormous, very positive results for our country."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin Burt, Paraguay's Deputy Commerce Minister, has organized a group of U.S.-trained technocrats to help raise the country's profile in the global markets (James Brooke/The New York Times) (pg. 37); As Paraguay moves towards democracy, foreign investment is rising. Its greatest draw is cheap power, and the richest source is the Itaipu dam, a $20.5 billion hydroelectric project it shares with Brazil. (Reuters) (pg. 38)
 
Map of Paraguay, showing location of Paraguay River. (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); 

COUNTRY: PARAGUAY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); BRAZIL (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); URUGUAY (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PARAGUAY PARAGUAY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); BRAZIL (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); URUGUAY (79%); CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); HEROIN (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TRENDS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX RELIEF (64%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; BURT, MARTIN (DEPUTY MIN) SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



40 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: INSURANCE;
Policies for Covering Cost of Long-Term Care

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:
MORE and more Americans are becoming aware of the possibility that at some point in their lives they will require extended care in a nursing home or their own homes because of a prolonged illness or disability. As a result, purchases of long-term-care insurance policies, intended to cover part of the increasingly high costs of such care, are rapidly increasing.
More than 2.5 million of these policies, which protect against risks that are not covered by other categories of health insurance, have already been sold by about 130 insurance companies. Yet while consumers are being bombarded with literature outlining the merits of long-term care insurance, there are many elements to consider in determining whether and what kind to buy. 
 Price is among the most important elements for many buyers, and it makes sense to check with several companies or agents.
A crucial factor is your age at the time the policy is bought, since premiums generally do not go up as you get older unless they are raised for all policyholders. The same policy that costs around $250 a year at age 50 might cost approximately $2,000 a year at age 70.
"Long-term care insurance is good for some people and is probably unnecessary for others," said Bob Jackson, senior program specialist of the American Association of Retired Persons. "Folks need to fully understand the benefit options."
The best policies pay for all medically necessary levels of nursing home care, including skilled, intermediate and custodial care, for as short as one year or as long as a lifetime. They are guaranteed renewable and do not require a hospital stay before paying nursing home benefits. And they also cover certain types of home health care, ranging from homemaking and chore services to physical and occupational therapy. Benefits of long-term care insurance are typically capped at a maximum amount.
Most long-term care policies are indemnity policies that pay a fixed dollar amount for every day that you receive specified care, rather than a percentage of the usual, customary and reasonable fees. But unless the insurance provides a way for benefits to rise as inflation rises -- like automatic increases annually at a specified rate for a specified time -- payments may be too low.
"A person buying a policy at 65 that pays $60 a day would need $180 a day for comparable purchasing power at 85," said Joshua M. Wiener of the Brookings Institution. "You have to pay for inflation adjustments."
Another important consideration is the choice of a deductible, or elimination, period, which can last up to 100 days, in which you are required to pay for covered expenses before the insurance begins. The rule of thumb is: the longer the deductible period, the lower the premium.
"First-day coverage is going to increase the premium tremendously," said Gail P. Schaeffer, a second vice president of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.
Exclusions and limitations vary among insurers. Nevertheless, a number of experts are now calling for state insurance regulators to require that all long-term-care policies contain mandatory nonforfeiture benefits. This provision assures those who have paid premiums for a minimum number of years that they are vested and will receive benefits for a shortened period, even if they are unable or unwilling to pay any more and thus let the policy lapse.
"Without nonforfeiture protection, long-term-care insurance is priced like a whole-life product, but provides the protection of a term product," said James P. Firman, president of United Seniors Health Cooperative. "No matter how much prefunded investment a consumer makes, nothing vests and the consumer is perpetually at risk."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Who's Buying" shows estimated breakdown of policyholders for long-term care insurance. (Source: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AARP INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; NURSING HOMES LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (91%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); INSURANCE (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (72%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (72%); HOME HEALTH CARE (67%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



41 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Shouts and Murmurs in Free Slovakia

 BODY:
It's not clear that most Czechs or Slovaks really favored the velvet divorce that became final on New Year's Day. But Czechoslovakia, once the model democracy in middle Europe, is no more. Knocking on wood, and with a nervous glance at the disintegrating Balkans, Americans can only join the celebrants and wish a prosperous life to the new Slovak Republic and the new Czech Republic.
Smaller, poorer Slovakia, with 5 million people and an 11 percent jobless rate, faces the more bruising readjustment. Yet 10 million Czechs may soon discover that when there's frost in Bratislava, the chill will be felt in Prague. The two Slavic republics are linked together not only by history, but in the perception of foreign investors. 
 The bittersweet end of the 74-year-old federation has been achieved with impressive civility. The Czech Prime Minister, Vaclav Klaus, and the Slovak Prime Minister, Vladimir Meciar, amicably settled on a 2-to-1 division of public property, including the armed forces and its weaponry. Sensibly, they have agreed on a customs union that permits free movement of goods and labor. For at least six months, the two republics will share a common currency, giving Slovakia time to set up its bank.
Polls showed that majorities of Czechs and Slovaks did not favor complete divorce. An ardent free-market reformer, Mr. Klaus knows that peaceful relations with Slovakia can help win him favorable treatment from the European Community. Mr. Meciar, a hard-line nationalist, knows that stability is essential for foreign investment.
As a matter of sentiment, Americans will sympathize with underdog Slovaks, who for a thousand years have never enjoyed statehood with democracy. Still, that lack of experience gives pause. Mr. Meciar shows scant patience with critics. And Slovakia has a large, nervous Hungarian minority.
Small wonder that worried Slovak democrats plead with American and European friends, "Don't forget us, don't abandon us." The shouts on New Year's Day should not drown out those murmurs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SLOVAKIA (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SLOVAKIA; EUROPE SLOVAKIA (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TRENDS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CURRENCIES (51%); 

PERSON: VACLAV KLAUS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



42 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Let's Scrap the Council of Economic Advisers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Clintonomics Doesn't Need a Czar" (Op-Ed, Dec. 10), James Tobin and Robert M. Solow urge the new Administration not to make the President's Council of Economic Advisers a sideshow. What they ignore is that the council has, in fact, become a sideshow, particularly under the Bush Administration. 
 Although the council at first, under the chairmanship of Leon Keiserling, kept a low profile, under Prof. Walter Heller in the Kennedy-Johnson years, the council became most effective and met its promise as visualized in the Employment Act of 1946.
Under the bold leadership of Professor Heller, the Kennedy-Johnson Administrations cut personal and corporate income taxes substantially, with liberalized depreciation rules and 7 percent investment tax credit for the purchase of new plant and equipment. The immediate result was startling when the inflation rate came down to around 2 percent, the unemployment rate was 3.6 percent, and the real gross national product grew more than 6 percent a year.
But the aftermath of the Vietnam War and the attendant inflation and high unemployment, the so-called stagflation, led the council to decline in influence. The council was swept by the events and tried anything to stem the situation, such as wage-price control and the Nixon Administration's policy of "phases," all of which ended in failure.
With President-elect Clinton's decision to establish a National Economic Council to coordinate all economic policies, the Council of Economic Advisers will be duplicative and relegated further to the sideline. It is time to think of abolishing the council for a number of reasons.
The council has become redundant in economic information-gathering. The main background research for policy discussions is done by economists at the Commerce Department and the Office of Management and Budget, among others. They can carry on the research for providing economic information to the public and for formulating effective economic policy of the Administration.
Then, the Secretary of the Treasury, not the chairman of the council, has become the Administration's chief economic spokesman. With the rise of power and influence of the Office of Management and Budget in the Bush Administration, the council has been weakened further to become ineffectual in making policy.
Finally, with the exceptions of Professors Tobin, Solow and a few others, the council has rarely attracted the first-rate minds, mainly because they had little access to the President or independent input in policy debate. It is time for starting a bold and innovative policy-making apparatus, pragmatic and not theory-bound, as the council has become.
 
ARVIN GHOSH
Assoc. Prof., Economics and Finance, William Paterson College
Wayne, N.J., Dec. 18, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); POLITICS (72%); TAX RELIEF (69%); TAX LAW (69%); DEPRECIATION (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); VIETNAM WAR (52%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); JAMES R TOBIN (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



43 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Some Highs and Lows Of Buying on Margin

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
IN September, John Appley, a businessman in Clearwater, Fla., sued his broker at Paine Webber, Robert Magnan, for losses from what he said were unauthorized trades of stocks and mutual funds in brokerage accounts worth more than half a million dollars. Mr. Appley seeks to recover $145,000 in portfolio losses plus $16,000 in interest that had accrued on nearly $375,000 in margin loans that Mr. Appley said he had not approved.
Paine Webber insists that Mr. Appley had signed documents authorizing his broker to buy for him on margin, but Mr. Appley is trying to establish in court that this was not made sufficiently clear to him. 
 Mr. Appley is not alone.
Today, margin disputes account for "hundreds and hundreds of cases" that investors bring against their brokers, said Samantha Rabin, editor of the Securities Arbitration Commentator in Maplewood, N.J.
At the same time, most investors are not aware that the tax breaks that made margin borrowing a good deal evaporated in 1991. Couple that with the risks present in borrowing on stocks or bonds whose value can always decline, and more and more financial advisers are steering clients away from margin loans.
The chief advantage of margin debt, of course, is the interest rate. Margin loan rates average 7 percent, a sharp discount from the 18 percent on the average credit card. Given the rate advantage, some people use margin borrowing as a low-cost loan or for overdraft protection on checking accounts. More traditional borrowers use margin loans to leverage their investment portfolios to make quick profits in fast-moving markets.
Whatever the reason, investors held $43.6 billion in margin debt at the end of September, the largest amount since just before the October 1987 stock market crash, according to the New York Stock Exchange.
Margin loans are funds borrowed from a broker, who asks for securities or cash as collateral. Investors usually can borrow up to 50 percent of the value of common stocks, mutual funds and corporate bonds and up to 90 percent or more of the value of Treasury securities. To protect themselves, however, brokers can ask for a higher initial margin and normally can increase the required collateral.
Buying on the margin doubles your money when the market soars, but losses pile up quicker when stock prices slide -- a risk that few people fully understand. Most investors who were hurt when stocks collapsed in 1987 were customers who bought shares on margin. As the market eroded, brokerage firms gave customers only minutes to cover their accounts before liquidating them, and most forced liquidations were upheld in subsequent arbitration and court proceedings because the firms relied on clauses that permitted them to liquidate whenever they felt uncomfortable, said Theodore G. Eppenstein, a New York lawyer who specializes in securities and commodities.
Although brokerage customers legally are required to sign margin agreements that outline the terms of the loan, "most people don't read the statements, let alone understand them," said Henry Sanchez Jr., a partner in the Tampa, Fla., law firm of Page & Bacek, who specializes in securities arbitration.
Brokers often tell customers they must sign the papers to open an account. As for the margin clause, "brokers say it means you can buy more stock, and we'll lend you the money if you don't have cash -- without explaining that if you get stretched out on margin, you can end up losing everything," Mr. Sanchez said.
Today, brokerage firms are pushing margin accounts more forcefully than ever. Like Mr. Appley, the Paine Webber customer, many people who have authorized margin buying may not realize it. For example, permission is built into papers used to set up the Merrill Lynch Cash Management Account. If investors do not specifically reject the margin clause, it takes effect automatically.
From a tax point of view, margin accounts used to be a smart way to borrow because borrowers could write off all margin interest up to the extent of their net investment income plus $10,000. But the 1986 tax act phased out the $10,000 allowance over five years, completely eliminating it by 1991. Now you can deduct interest only up to net investment income, including net capital gains. Nonetheless, most people mistakenly assume that all margin debt is still deductible, says William G. Brennan, partner in charge of personal financial counseling, in the Washington office of Ernst & Young.
Now, whether margin interest is deducted depends solely on how the money is used. For example, if you take a $50,000 margin loan to pay your child's college tuition, you cannot deduct interest on the loan. Interest can be deducted when the money is used to buy shares of stock, and then only up to the amount of interest, dividends and other investment income in your portfolio.
Because of the reduced tax benefits and the risks, fewer clients now use margin loans, Mr. Brennan said.
Mr. Eppenstein's advice is to avoid margin accounts unless you have a diversified portfolio and can withstand market fluctuations. They are not suited for people who are retired or living on fixed incomes, he said.
People who do use margin loans should take steps to protect themselves. To reduce the risk of margin calls, borrow against blue-chip issues, government securities and other conservative investments and borrow less than the full loan value of your securities.
Read your statements carefully, and if you do not understand them, ask your broker or the broker's manager. Or ask a competing broker -- who will probably be happy to explain what's wrong with your account.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Lower Margin Rates" shows margin interest rates for Merrill Lynch, Fidelity Investments and Charles Schwab & Company, 1987-1992 (est.) (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIS (AMEX) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MARGIN TRADING; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (68%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



44 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
For the Do-It-Yourself Financial Planner, Software to the Rescue

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
People who keep careful financial records, tracking how much they have spent and comparing the outflow with their budgets, are apt to spend less and save more than people who simply buy now and pay later.
But who has time for all that tedious record-keeping? Ah, computer software to the rescue. New versions of popular personal finance programs make it easy to keep those New Year's resolutions about getting organized financially. 
 The fastest such program to learn and use is Quicken from Intuit, and not surprisingly, it is also the best-selling personal finance program. It is based on a standard checkbook. Users simply fill out an on-screen check that the program prints out. Checks written by hand and deposits are entered into the on-screen check register. The program also provides a link to the Checkfree Electronic Payment Service. Quicken uses all these data to produce a variety of instant financial reports and graphs.
Intuit has joined with Visa U.S.A. and the Primerica Bank to offer a new feature, Intellicharge, to keep track of credit card spending in its new versions of Quicken, 6.0 for Microsoft's DOS system and 2.0 for Microsoft's Windows.
To use Intellicharge customers must apply for a Quicken Visa issued by Primerica. There is no annual fee, and the card's interest rate is 8.75 percentage points above the prime rate, or 14.75 percent at present. Intellicharge data are sent over a modem for $3 a month or by diskette for $4.50 a month, with the first six months free in either case.
The program, which has a suggested retail price of $69.95, but at most retail stores actually sells at about half that, also tracks investments and works with multiple accounts, giving users a quick grasp of their financial situations and providing some financial planning simulations.
For people who want to spend a bit more time -- say an hour or two a week -- and do more comprehensive financial planning, Andrew Tobias's Managing Your Money 9.0 from Meca Software is the program of choice. It is packed with features, as well as pithy comments, that guide and instruct users as they track their spending, portfolios and tax data. The program generally retails for less than $50 and is available in DOS, Windows and Macintosh versions.
A less-well-known alternative is Moneycounts from Parsons Technology. A flexible program, it gives users a choice of single- or double-entry accounting, and it handles cash, checking, savings and investments and credit card transactions.
The program lists for $49, but Parsons (800-223-6925) is offering people who have bought an I.B.M. or compatible personal computer since June 1, its new Version 7.0 and Procalc 3D spreadsheet program for $8.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tracking Payments" shows breakdown of noncash personal finance transactions in U.S. (Source: Intuit)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: V (NYSE) (83%); INTU (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (83%); INTUIT INC (57%); ELECTRONIC PAYMENT SERVICES INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); MECA SOFTWARE LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES (PERSONAL); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS PERSONAL FINANCE SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (72%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



45 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:

Converting Savings Bonds
Q What are the benefits, if any, of exchanging Series EE bonds for Series HH bonds?
 
 PAUL PELLETIER, SALEM, MASS.
A Series HH savings bonds, which pay interest semiannually, can be acquired only by converting Series EE savings bonds with a value of $500 or more. "When you convert your Series EE bonds to Series HH bonds, any accrued interest on the Series EE bonds is deferred for tax purposes as long as you hold the HH bonds," said Thomas Anfinson, executive director of United States Savings Bonds. 
 "Theoretically you can take 30 years of accrued interest on Series EE bonds and defer it for another 20 years while holding the Series HH bonds," he said. The interest paid semiannually on any Series HH bonds you have acquired is taxable as received.
According to Mr. Anfinson, "Those who want some sort of a regular return would be better off with Series HH bonds." In addition, Series HH Bonds pay interest at the rate of 6 percent annually, while Series EE Bonds, which currently cannot pay less than 6 percent if held for at least five years, may rise or fall depending on Treasury rates.
 
Direct Stock Purchases
Q Is it possible to buy stock in a company directly from that company?
 
 ARTO DeMIRJIAN JR., MANHATTAN.
A Dividend reinvestment plans, which are offered by about 1,000 companies, let you reinvest your dividends, sometimes at a discount, without paying commissions. Most of these programs also allow you to purchase additional shares through the plan.
 "This is an easy and cheap way to accumulate more shares," said John Markese, the president of the American Association of Individual Investors.
Mr. Markese added that "there are about 10 companies that allow you to buy the shares directly from them even when you do not own any already, also without commission." Many libraries have directories of corporations that offer dividend reinvestment plans and sell shares to investors who do not already own stock in the company.
 
 
Buying Foreign Bonds
Q Is it possible for United States citizens to buy foreign government bonds directly from the treasuries of those countries?
 
 JAMES H. TRUMAN, CHAMPAIGN, ILL.
A Most people buy foreign government bonds through the brokerage firms or banks that participate in this business. "The reasons are convenience, safekeeping and ease of record-keeping," according to Allen Sinai, the chief economist of the Boston Company Economic Advisers.
The bonds of Canada and Mexico are the foreign bonds most often purchased by individual investors in the United States.
Some countries sell their bonds directly to foreign individuals, while others will not permit such tranactions. In addition, the countries that do so may have large minimum-denomination requirements that preclude many people from buying, Mr. Sinai added.
Information about a particular country's requirements is usually available from a brokerage firm or bank from that country with a branch in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BONDS (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



46 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: In a Striving Section of the Bronx, The Races Mix, but Don't Mingle

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

 BODY:
Joe Kraus tries not to think about race, but being retired, he's got time on his hands. The other day, as he sat near two other elderly white men playing cards in a Bronx social club, Mr. Kraus allowed himself this simple proposition: People can live together peaceably, more or less.
He did not have to look far for proof. As his friends played rummy, Jose Rivera sat across the hall explaining the invention he hopes will make him rich: United States Patent No. 4,598,918, the sideways-skating roller skate. Behind a partition, eight children grunted as Kevin Hall, a black kung fu teacher, said to them, once again: concentrate, concentrate. 
 The building, which Mr. Kraus calls "the Triangle," is in a part of the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx, a noteworthy place when the subject is the true state of race relations in the nation's largest city. Demographers say there are few places in New York quite like this, with white, black and Hispanic residents living in almost equal proportions.
While it is a statistically unusual place, it could be that Williamsbridge and its people, tolerant if sometimes personally distant from one another, might be a better stand-in for the overall nature of race relations in New York City than neighborhoods with widely publicized troubles, like Crown Heights.
It is not that love or closeness link the groups. What exists is a cordial standoff in which blocks of tidy homes are fully integrated but the mixing rarely extends to church socials and community functions. What also exists is a respect built on common economic status and aspirations. This is a neighborhood of hard-working middle-class people, many of them homeowners, striving to get ahead.
Raising families on safe streets with the help of secure jobs is a common goal. Protecting hard-won assets and the neighborhood's quality of life, residents say, is more important than squabbling over color.
"You are always going to have bias," said Mr. Kraus, a 67-year-old former airplane mechanic who wears a short gray ponytail. "But in this particular area, I think you have as little of it as anywhere in the city."
Mark Naison, an urban studies professor at Fordham University, describes Williamsbridge as a place of "grudging tolerance" or "grudging cosmopolitanism." And so life there is much more mosaic than melting pot.
"There is not much interaction," said Robert Potter, a retired postal worker who was one of the first blacks to move into his block on Adee Avenue 31 years ago. "That may be a reason why we get along. Everybody takes care of his own property. We respect each other."
 
Upward Mobility
 For decades, this area of the Bronx has been a place where poor but upwardly mobile people from the South Bronx and upper Manhattan have bought homes and carved out a quiet middle-class existence. This section comprises roughly 85 blocks, bordered on the south by Allerton Avenue, the north by Burke Avenue, the west by the Botanical Garden and the east by East Gun Hill Road. To the north of Burke Avenue, the area becomes more heavily black. To the south of Allerton, it is mostly white.
Fifty years ago, it was Jews, Germans, Irish and Italians. Beginning 30 years ago, black Americans and West Indian blacks began moving up, followed more recently by Hispanic immigrants and a few Asians.
Through this change, the area has remained remarkably stable, even as whites have moved to the suburbs, died or retired out of the city. Median household income is $25,625, well above the figure for the Bronx of $21,944. Household median income for New York City is $29,823.
The number of people owning homes is also above the borough average. And in the 20 years after 1970, when the population of the Bronx dropped by nearly 270,000 to 1,204,000, this neighborhood has held steady at 25,000.
"That's the formula," said Dominick Castore, the chairman of Community Board 10, which encompasses most of the area. "It's everybody being in the same boat and finally getting to know that they have the same aspirations, the same hurts and the same blood. There is no difference."
The 49th Precinct, which covers most of the 85-block area, has one of the lowest crime rates in the Bronx. For instance, when compared with a South Bronx precinct, there are about half as many robberies, considered an indicator of street safety.
Though generally peaceful, Williamsbridge is one of 13 neighborhoods in the city being monitored closely by the city's Human Rights Commission as a potential spot for bias crimes. Last January, two black children were attacked by four white teen-agers and squirted with white paint, in an incident that community leaders worried might upset the area's good relations.
The reason for concern is that the white population has dropped significantly during the last 20 years, and such shifts frequently breed instability. In 1990, the Census Bureau recorded these proportions: white, 27 percent; non-Hispanic black, 34 percent; Hispanic, almost nonexistent in 1970, 35 percent.
North of Allerton Avenue and south of Burke Avenue, the residential blocks are racially mixed, according to 1990 census figures. It is a mix that Arthur Grant, a 53-year-old mail carrier, sees every day as he pushes his canvas sack around the neighborhood, stopping at houses where white, black and Hispanic families live next door to one another.
"It would be great if the city would be like this," he said on Allerton Avenue. "As a black man, I am treated equally by the blacks, the Spanish and the whites. I'm from Panama and I've seen people live like this regardless of color."
Mr. Grant waved over to a group of four men on the corner of Allerton and Barnes Avenue. The men were Italian, Jewish, Puerto Rican and Dominican. The Dominican, Rafael Diaz, a 54-year-old building superintendent on Barnes Avenue, was holding a big pair of clippers. He had just used them to pry off the toilet seat at the house of a friend, a Jewish man who lives south of Allerton.
"There are no problems," said Mr. Diaz, whose building is home to Nigerians, Jamaicans, Jews, Germans, Poles, Argentines and others. "Everything is quiet and the people are nice."
 
Can't See a Rainbow
 Professor Naison said that basic amity, though underlaced with fear and friction, is more the norm for race relations in New York City. Despite troubles in neighborhoods like Crown Heights, most ethnic groups tend to tolerate one another, he said, even if there is little understanding. Deeper social integration, the dream of a racial rainbow, remains out of the question for most groups.
"Some ideal of racial harmony is totally abstract from their lives because they are using ethnic networks for jobs, housing, credit," Professor Naison said. "There is a kind of very pragmatic aspect in terms of their survival in whom they choose as friends and and business partners. Some melting pot notion, it's coming from outer space."
Andrew Hacker, a political-science professor at Queens College and author of "Two Nations" (Scribners), a pessimistic look at American race relations, agreed that "the issue is not whether people socialize."
"It's not whether they have dinner or barbecue with other people," he said. "The question is can they simply say, 'This is a nice neighborhood. Our home doesn't feel threatened. It's safe enough for us and it is pleasant enough for us.' "
White residents say that this is true, an assertion that appears to be backed up by census data. Though the area has changed considerably during the last 20 years, the change has come slowly. Whites are not fleeing.
But Mr. Castore, the community board chairman, acknowledged that there was some resentment among older whites as they have become the minority. Resentment flares up occasionally in white pockets around the city, in Williamsbridge and Throgs Neck in the Bronx, in Canarsie and Flatbush in Brooklyn. Five years ago, for example, the son of one of Mr. Castore's board members, who is black, was chased near Christopher Columbus High School by nine young white men with bats.
Added to the mix in Williamsbridge, community leaders say, is an influx of Albanians, Russians and Central Europeans, whites who are in many cases unused to living side by side with other races. In the paint attack last January, a group called "the Albanian Boys" was suspected, though the police never made any arrests.
The neighborhood's strength, residents and officials said, is that beyond the incidents, there appear to be real efforts to adjust to diversity, efforts that have gone on for three decades since the first black families began moving in.
After the attack last January, for example, people of all colors marched side by side. Adele Maldonado, a 39-year-old housewife who is of Puerto Rican descent, said that she has never felt unwelcome since she moved from the South Bronx 19 years ago. She is trying to pass that feeling to her 11-year-old daughter, Amy, a fifth grader at Public School 89, an elementary school on Mace Avenue in Williambridge.
"I always explain to her that I wouldn't want her to be called spic or just off the banana boat," said Ms. Maldonado, who lives on Paulding Avenue at Allerton Avenue, one of the most mixed blocks in the area. "So I expect her to respect other people."
Ms. Maldonado said she was friendly, though not friends, with her neighbors. And many in the area said that while the barriers to living next to one another had dropped, there were still barriers to social interaction.
Though community organizations have banded together for specific causes -- the bias attack and to oppose the construction of a transient hotel on Boston Road, for instance -- individually many are stratified by race. There are divisions in churches: The congregation of Holy Rosary Church on Adee Avenue is 60 percent white, 30 percent black and 10 percent Hispanic, and many worship together, especially at the 11:30 A.M. folk Mass on Sundays.
But the pastor, the Rev. Francis X. Toner, said that of the 200 parishioners attending a recent dance, about 20 were black. At a steel drum concert, it was nearly all black. He believes the church has made great progress over the years, but in social events, "I'd like to see better."
Ted Finkelstein, director of the office of the Commission on Human Rights in the North Bronx, agreed. "The least one should expect is tolerance and there certainly is tolerance in that community," he said. "But that is a starting-off point."
But many residents said they did not think this lack of mixing was a problem. They said they were treated equally buying houses or shopping, either in Italian bakeries or places like Harry's Jerk Center, a new West Indian restaurant on Burke Avenue.
Mr. Potter, the retired postal worker, said he believed that true integration was simply not realistic.
In some imagined suburb, he said he could imagine children of all races, "like you see on television, where they run inside and drink juice and play football and so forth."
"But in the city itself, it doesn't happen," he added. "Things are polarized."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 1993, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 2 about race relations in the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx misidentified a Hispanic resident whose business is next to others run by blacks and whites. He is Jose A. Rodriguez.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Williamsbridge, a Bronx neighborhood, black, white and Hispanic residents live in almost equal proportions. Three friends from high school, from left, Jaime Sosa, Damian Mujica and Joseph Kearney, played pinball this week at Rocky's Pizzeria on Betty Brady Square in Williamsbridge. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 24)
 
Graph: "Census Data: Williamsbridge, at a Glance" shows population statistics on Williamsbridge. (Source: Census Bureau)(pg. 24)
 
Map of Williamsbridge. (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; WILLIAMSBRIDGE (NYC); BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RACIAL RELATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); LIFE STYLES RACE & RACISM (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (72%); PATENTS (71%); TRENDS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); RELIGION (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1993



47 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 5; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: MUSEUMGOERS;
Outreach Could Be A Way Out

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Carol Vogel's article on the budding romance between art museums and their public ["Dear Museumgoer: What Do You Think?," Dec. 20] notes that the institutions are seeking ways to draw in large numbers of visitors to make ends meet. While informative, the account omits some of the most important aspects of the problem. 
 If the only goal of museums is to fill their halls with the same kinds of visitors who have been coming to them, the situation is indeed serious. Missing from the article is any suggestion that museums have an obligation to expand their public beyond the highly educated, white middle class and to turn their attention to the less-educated, ethnically and racially diverse peoples of modest economic standing. This policy, formulated as outreach, was an important element of the Great Society programs of President Lyndon B. Johnson.
In a conference held at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam early last month, under the auspices of the leading Dutch foundation for studies of the arts and cultural policy, many of the participating museum directors, scholars and policy makers were dismayed to learn that in some 15 countries fewer than 25 percent of the population had actually gone to an art museum.
It was suggested that one way of attracting less-conventional museumgoers is to organize exhibits likely to appeal to them. Even more important, it is essential to bring such programs to the attention of influential community leaders, so they can encourage their peers to attend.
Although certain museum watchers feel threatened by the very idea that artworks not usually highlighted will be given pride of place in what they have come to view as their museums, they must bear in mind that in democratic societies, their taste is not the only one that should count. Furthermore, as institutions such as the Brooklyn Museum, with its important African artworks, and the Corcoran Gallery, whose exhibit "Facing History: Images of Blacks Refracted in a White Mirror," have shown, esthetic quality need not be compromised by such efforts.
 
VERA L. ZOLBERG
New York
 
The writer teaches at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan and is a visiting professor in the sociology of art at the University of Amsterdam.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



48 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 6; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE COUCH

 BODY:
If modern psychiatry has grown up to join its cousins in the medical and surgical specialities, then it, too, faces the practical constraints of governmental agencies and insurance companies. The author neglects the fact that such regulations often dictate the type of treatment patients receive or the length of time they may remain in treatment. If there is a perception that modern psychiatry is about medication, or that the battle is about whether to medicate or not to medicate, then we should understand that psychiatrists, as doctors, are influenced (and often compromised) by political and economic realities. The bottom line may be that a bottle of pills is worth more than an empathetic ear. Whoever still thinks "talk is cheap" should have his head examined.
 
MITCHELL S. NOBLER, M.D.
New York, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PSYCHIATRY (91%); INSURANCE (88%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (87%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); 

PERSON: STONE, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



49 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2259 words

HEADLINE: Council's Land-Use Procedures Emerging

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
TWO years after the Board of Estimate was disbanded and the ultimate authority for planning and zoning passed to the City Council, patterns have begun to emerge in how land-use decisions are made. Perhaps most striking is the way the Council has given up some of the reflexive parochialism that characterized its predecessor.
While borough presidents on the Board of Estimate generally followed the lead of the colleague in whose borough a given project was situated, Council members have shown no such inclination, at least in certain key votes. "The parochial issues, while important, are not controlling," said the Speaker of the Council, Peter F. Vallone of Queens. 
 Not everyone is cheered by this trend. "Nobody knows my district better than me," said Councilman Michael DeMarco of the Bronx, whose opposition to a condominium development on City Island did not sway the Council, which approved it. "Why should a person in Brooklyn or Queens tell me what I should have in my district?" he asked.
The Board of Estimate passed out of existence in August 1990, when the Council replaced it as the final authority in the uniform land-use review procedure, known by the ungainly acronym Ulurp (pronounced YOO-lurp). It is too early to tell how much these traits are governed by personalities, rather than process, or whether they would survive in a development boom.
Almost everyone agrees that the new procedure is more complicated, and that frustrates both developers and neighborhood leaders. The City Planning Department may take at least six months to certify that an application is ready for review. Then the community board has 60 days to consider it. The Borough President has another 30 days, the City Planning Commission another 60 days, the Council another 50 days, and the Mayor another 5 days. And the Council has another 10 days to override a mayoral veto.
Negotiations, which amounted to 11th-hour, late-night combat at the Board of Estimate, now seem to occur earlier in the process. That gives elected officials more opportunity to shape a project's broad outlines at the beginning but less chance to craft the critical details at the end.
There are many more participants than before. Yet the Council is much more firmly under the control of one person -- Mr. Vallone -- than the board ever was.
One similarity between the two is that the Council, like the board, tends to leave all but the most high-profile matters pretty much the way they arrive from city planners. The planning chairman, Richard L. Schaffer, said, "I can probably count on one hand, with fingers left over, the number of commission actions that have been turned down by the Council." And he said the number of modifications was "very, very small."
OF all the developments in the new process, however, perhaps most striking is the degree to which the Council has turned its back on the tradition of "legislative courtesy." Instead of following the lead of colleagues whose districts are most affected, many Council members take their cues from Mr. Vallone, his staff and allies.
"People don't know what they're voting on," said Councilwoman Ronnie M. Eldridge, of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. "They're very busy. They don't know the communities. So they defer to the leadership. It's actually a very strange procedure."
She watched last month as the Council voted 42 to 8 in favor of Donald J. Trump's Riverside South project in her district.
In August, the Council approved a plan to build a garbage-burning incinerator in the Brooklyn Navy Yard by a vote of 36 to 15, despite the opposition of the local member, Kenneth K. Fisher, and colleagues from a wide geographical ring around the yard.
An expanded municipal parking lot, garage, vehicle maintenance and fueling center on Piers 35-36 on the Lower East Side was opposed by Kathryn E. Freed and Antonio Pagan, both of whose districts would be affected. But it passed the Council.
"The prediction was that the Council would be very parochial," said Frederick A.O. Schwarz Jr., who was the chairmain of the Charter Revision Commission in 1989. "We didn't think that would be the case, but it was a responsible worry."
Instead, he said, the Council's "record so far is reasonably good." One reason he cited is that the Council has 51 members, compared to eight on the board, and "therefore any given member -- leaving the Speaker aside -- is going to have less influence."
For his part, Mr. Vallone downplays his role. "By the time you get to me, I'm just another Council member voting," he said. "I'm not going to exercise my position as Speaker to do anything other than support a fair and honest legislative process."
Mr. Vallone allowed that the dynamics of the new process were a bit surprising. "The strange part of this," he said, "the learning experience to me, was that we seem to be doing better forging a consensus, because everyone knows that if you want to stop a project in your district, it's more than saying, 'I'm opposed to it.' "
Mr. Trump found himself traveling to parts of New York City that he had never before visited, as he courted Council members in their district offices.
"Under this process, everybody is a free agent and that's a much tougher aspect," Mr. Trump said. "You can have the Borough President on board and that's very helpful. But the fact is, it doesn't necessarily mean you're going to get something approved. Whereas, in the Board of Estimate, it was tantamount -- unwrittenly -- to approval."
The waning of parochialism may be a case of the "right result for the wrong reason," said Councilman Charles Millard, a Manhattan Republican.
"I don't like the fact that people vote so often out of support for the Speaker," he said. "But the result -- as we saw in the piers on the Lower East Side and in the Trump project -- is that instead of supporting the local member, there is a somewhat greater support for the overall good of the city."
Mr. Vallone cited Sea Breeze, a 55-unit condominium proposed on City Island, which was opposed by Councilman DeMarco.
"Mike said, 'I'm opposed and, as a matter of legislative courtesy, you should oppose it,' " Mr. Vallone recalled. "But I made it a leadership matter and said, 'That's not a reason to vote against it.' "
Mr. DeMarco said his opposition to Sea Breeze had to do with overcrowding in the neighborhood, sanitation problems and public access to waterways.
"This is not like a school or a hospital or some sort of municipal thing that will give service to everybody but nobody wants it in their back yard," he said. "We didn't need additional, middle-class housing on City Island. If anything, we probably need less."
In the case of the Lower East Side piers, Councilwoman Freed noted that they were "directly across from a huge population" in several large housing projects, and near Gouverneur Hospital -- "the worst possible place to put a facility that's going to increase traffic, air pollution and noise pollution."
Councilwoman June M. Eisland of the Bronx, head of the Land Use Committee, said she was "never comfortable coming out with a decision that's in opposition to a member." But she said there was an issue of citywide importance, the rehabilitation of the Williamsburg Bridge, which required moving garages from under the bridge to the piers. She said the Council improved the project by turning a proposed esplanade -- "Muggers' Alley," she called it -- into a park on Pier 35.
Had legislative courtesy prevailed, Riverside South would have been defeated. Six Council members from the West Side opposed it: Thomas K. Duane, Ms. Eldridge, C. Virginia Fields, Guillermo Linares, Stanley E. Michels and Adam C. Powell.
Yet it was approved by everyone else, except Una Clarke and Annette M. Robinson of Brooklyn (and Carolyn B. Maloney of Manhattan, who was in Washington setting up her new Congressional office and was counted as absent in the tally).
"There's an unspoken feeling that Brooklyn knows what's best for Brooklyn and Queens knows what's best for Queens," Mr. Powell said. "But when it comes to Manhattan, it's like: 'We don't care what the Manhattan leadership wants. We're going to do what we feel is right for Manhattan.' "
Perhaps most frustrating to the community was that Riverside South's density -- it may house up to 11,350 people -- was barely touched upon, although the Council conditioned Mr. Trump's plan for a television studio on a special permit, perhaps dooming it.
"The leadership heard from their friends, contributors and allies that the residential density was what was needed for the project," Ms. Eldridge said. "Then they took care of what they could negotiate." Mr. Trump's studio, she noted, was seen as potential competition to the Kaufman-Astoria studios in Mr. Vallone's district.
BUT Ms. Eisland said the Council's action on the studio was part of the effort to reduce density. And, she added, it was "significant" that Riverside South arrived with the endorsement of Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, who made no specific recommendation about density, and the unanimous approval of the City Planning Commission, which left residential density untouched.
Marla G. Simpson, director of land-use planning for Ms. Messinger, said it was "assumed, as had always been the case with the Board of Estimate, that the end game would focus on density."
"Since density is really the fundamental issue that drives the economics of the project," she said, "you can't really know what the break-even point is until you know what the rest of your package looks like. We assumed that there needed to be some real attention to density. We never, in our initial agreement with the Trump Organization, endorsed the density of their proposal."
"It turned to be something that the Council didn't want to deal with at all," she said.
In other ways, however, the Borough President arguably helped shape the agenda at the planning commission and in the Council. Ms. Messinger bargained for concessions from Mr. Trump, signed a memorandum of understanding with him and prepared a 95-page report on Riverside South.
Ms. Messinger believes Borough Presidents have more influence in the new system. One reason is that each Borough President appoints a member to the planning commission and is formally involved at the earliest stage of the review procedure, as its very scope is being determined.
"When you get a seat at the table to discuss what is going to be the scope of the environmental review, you can use that as an opportunity to signal what are going to be your ultimate concerns," Ms. Messinger said.
"While that's obviously a complicated process and one that requires a little bit of strategic planning for the developer," she said, "it's much better than the late-night, one-hour gladiatorial window of opportunity, when everybody jumps in the ring and the question is, who's standing at the end?"
But even if no one is sporting a "Bring Back the Board" button, those gladiatorial sessions served a purpose.
"If the Planning Commission fell down, we could get planning done at the Board of Estimate," said Sally Goodgold, chairwoman of the City Club of New York, a civic group. "We did reduce density and change things."
Moreover, she said, because the Comptroller had a seat on the board, budgetary considerations were woven into land-use review. "Now, a lot of things fall through the cracks," Ms. Goodgold said, "primarily issues of fiscal importance."
Marilyn Gelber, executive assistant to Borough President Howard Golden of Brooklyn, noted the board's role as a "unifying body" whose authority covered not only land-use matters but city contracts. "That gave you the ability to look comprehensively at a project," she said, "and, if there were problems, nothing was out of bounds."
"IF you were asked to approve the disposition of property for a day-care center," Ms. Gelber said, "you would also vote on the business terms of the lease and the social-service contract."
But Ms. Eisland said the Council was trying to forge an equally broad role and its insistence on examining safety and budgetary matters when it reviewed day-care center leases was a source of "considerable contention" with the Dinkins administration.
The question of what is in and out of bounds for review is a sore point.
"You go through so many groups," Mr. Trump said, "and everybody takes a slice. It's such a long process and such an unwieldy process. It would be nice if it could somehow be consolidated so there is one bite out of the apple instead of three or four or five or six."
"Issues can come up for the first time at a very, very late point in the process," said Shelly S. Friedman of Brown & Wood, who represented Stephen Muss, the developer of the Brighton by the Sea project in Brooklyn.
"There are players who are tangential to the process but for the requirement that they vote," Mr. Friedman said. "They prefer to remain uninformed about an application, then we show up at the City Council and it becomes an opportunity for a certain amount of street theater. That's not something that happened often in the Board of Estimate."
But Mr. Duane, who was one of those raising last-minute objections, blamed a process in which basic issues are settled at the outset, leaving Council members and community boards "to tinker at the sides."
"The old Board of Estimate was undemocratic," he said. "The potential for a better process is with the Council. We're part of the way there, but we have a way to go yet."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RIVERSIDE SOUTH PROJECT (NYC); HOUSING; CITY COUNCILS ; MAYORS; BOROUGH PRESIDENTS; CITY CHARTERS LAND USE PLANNING (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); VETO (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); 

PERSON: ;DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



50 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Superliens;
A Condo's Foreclosure Rights

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
THE drive to insure more effective collection of delinquent common charges and monthly maintenance payments is moving into the political arena.
Only there, say lawyers and officials who have been involved, can many of the problems that have plagued condominiums, homeowner associations and co-ops since the start of the recession be sorted out, since legal remedies are proving inadequate. 
 In New York State the difficulties have been compounded by the state's lengthy foreclosure procedures. It can take up to three years, about three times longer than anywhere else, to evict someone who is in default. This is a burden on neighbors who must pick up the shortfall.
"The boards think it's our fault when we can't get the person out sooner," said Stuart Saft, a lawyer and chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives. "But unless they help us fight for change, it's going to stay that way."
For 15 years, efforts have been made all across the country to give a condominium or homeowner association "superlien" powers -- the right to dip into the proceeds of any foreclosure and take out at least six months' worth of unpaid common charges ahead of the lender who normally holds priority rights. Such powers are needed, say the advocates, because it is one of the few means open to associations in a foreclosure to recover unpaid common charges. They can't even charge the new owner because a foreclosure usually wipes out all debts against a unit.
But only a handful of states -- Alabama, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Washington and West Virginia and the District of Columbia -- have passed such legislation, and it's getting tough to tempt others.
Robert Diamond, a lawyer in Falls Church, Va., who represents both lenders and associations and who helped draft model legislation in 1976, said the current rise in unit owner defaults, coupled with tighter banking regulation, had cooled lenders to this concession. They now want to hang onto every penny they can get and oppose any superlien bill that comes up for consideration.
Thus, he said, unless individual associations make their concerns known to their legislators, it is doubtful that the list will get much longer.
Barbara Beach, staff vice president for public affairs with the Condominium Associations Institute in Alexandria, Va., the national network of people in the common ownership field, recommends combining individual letter-writing campaigns with personal meetings with local representatives. In addition, she said, associations should form coalitions and work collectively through such groups as the state chapters of C.A.I., which are forming legislative action committees.
Politicians agree. "We might not have lost the opportunity in the past if these people had been more vocal," said Oliver Koppell, chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the New York State Assembly.
But Gurdon Buck, a lawyer in Hartford and the supervisory council member of the Six Committees on Housing of the American Bar Association, warned that any attempt to win superlien powers should be tied to a total overhaul of condominium legislation and achieved through the passage of model legislation known as the Uniform Common Interest Ownership Act.
He said that when superlien legislation was attempted as a separate issue it ran into roadblocks, normally because of lender objections. By contrast, a total overhaul of common ownership legislation normally includes added protection for lenders on other issues, such as construction loans and greater certainty of title on individual units. In exchange, lenders are more willing to concede the priority lien.
James L. Winokur, a professor of law at the University of Denver College of Law, who has also been involved in the adoption of a superlien nationwide, further warned lobbyists not be greedy. Any new bill, he said, must contain a limit on that right, usually six months' worth of unpaid charges.
"ANYTHING more and lenders will stop making condo loans," he warned. When Rhode Island provided its condominiums with up to five years' in arrears ahead of the mortgage holder last year, he noted, the outcry from lenders was so intense that the state had to quickly amend the provision to the usual six months.
This is why it's becoming so important for condominium leaders in New York State to lobby for a streamlining of foreclosure proceedings. Without this, six months' worth of unpaid charges would represent no more than a drop in the bucket, since a delinquent owner could remain in the unit more than another two years.
New York co-ops need to react to a different obstacle. Ironically, co-ops have long enjoyed superlien powers of unlimited duration because of their different legal structure. But in the last few months lenders who make individual share loans, led by representatives of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, have been seeking the removal of those powers.
They also want to curtail the right of co-op boards to screen prospective buyers following a foreclosure. The lenders' aim is to make it easier to recoup their losses when their loans go bad.
William Jay Lippman, a Manhattan lawyer who has been involved in these discussions, recommends compromise.
Without some sign of flexibility by co-ops, he warned, even the few lenders still active in the co-op lending market may disappear, which could further erode values and prolong the gridlock.
His suggestion is therefore to agree to limit current superlien powers to six months. This would bring co-ops in line with condominiums. He further suggested that a co-op corporation require its board to provide a "reasonable" basis for refusing a lender's applicant -- something they do not now have to do.
"But those lenders are not going to ring any doorbells telling you to make these changes," he said. Nor will they be changed through legislation. It's going to be up to the board to get it done through amendments to the co-op's governing documents.
And it won't be easy. Such changes normally require the approval of two-thirds, sometimes even three-quarters, of the shareholders.
Alternatively, the boards could heed the advice of Mr. Saft, who argues that even without the recommended changes lenders will eventually return to the co-op market because it's too lucrative a source of banking profits to write off.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FORECLOSURES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONDOMINIUMS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); EVICTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (65%); BANKING LAW (63%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



51 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Phipps Houses President;
A Developer Retires

 BODY:
"I'm not sick," said Lynda Simmons. "I'm not being fired. I just decided that this is the time."
The 58-year-old Ms. Simmons was talking about her retirement last Thursday as president of Phipps Houses, New York's oldest and largest developer of low- and moderate-income communities. She had worked at Phipps for 23 years, the last 10 as president. Phipps owns and manages 3,600 apartments for homeless and low- and moderate-income tenants and, through a subsidiary, manages 5,800 other apartments. 
 Ms. Simmons also headed the Phipps Community Development Corporation, which organizes human and educational services as well as job-training programs. In the 1970's, she helped pioneer the concept of coordinated community renewal with Phipps Houses' involvement in the comprehensive renewal of the West Farms area of the South Bronx, an involvement that continues.
"My contribution, I believe, has been in reconceptualizing 'housing' as 'community,' Ms. Simmons said. "In my years at Phipps Houses we have moved steadily toward designing each building or group of buildings as a physical community, with indoor meeting rooms and outdoor 'living rooms,' and a deliberate social community." At Phipps, Ms. Simmons also developed Phipps Plaza West, a complex of 894 apartments completed in 1976 on Second Avenue between 26th and 29th Streets in Manhattan. "I think that there we have proved that beauty is biologically important," she said, "and that beauty pays off in terms of reduced real-estate maintenance costs as well as better lives for residents."
She decided to retire now, she said, because "it seems the least disruptive time for me to leave the organization, because it allows a new Phipps Houses leader to begin the new developments he or she will carry out under a new Federal administration." A search committee has been formed to find that leader, with a target date of this summer.
Her plans? "I'm certainly not retiring in the sense of never doing anything," she said. "I am redeploying my efforts."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PHIPPS HOUSES 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHIPPS HOUSES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); DISMISSALS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); 

PERSON: SIMMONS, LYNDA

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



52 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: SEEN;
The Straight-Faced Revs and Cost

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
REVS and Cost -- two men whose nicknames, printed on signs all over Manhattan from the Battery to 96th Street, have puzzled New Yorkers for a year -- are as enigmatic as their posters.
The signs, with cryptic messages like "Who killed Revs" and "Hello my name is Cost," first appeared almost a year ago in SoHo, and soon spread to St. Marks Place, Sheridan Square, Lincoln Center and points north. 
 In a recent interview in Washington Square Park, the two spoke on condition that they be identified only by their nicknames. They kept secret even their ages -- they appear to be in their mid-20's -- and the neighborhoods where they lived.
"We want people to say, 'What the hell is going on?' " said Cost, who is unemployed and was wearing jeans, high-top sneakers, a red baseball cap over his close-cut black hair and headphones around his neck.
So, what is going on? "There is no direct answer," Cost said, smirking. "Once you've figured us out, game over. If you could give us the meaning of life, I'd give you the meaning of us."
Revs, his hair short and blond, wore an Army-style field jacket, faded jeans and a pair of battered canvas sneakers. He works in an office by day and goes on postering missions, as he called them, by night.
"Real art is not hanging in the Louvre," Revs said morosely. "It's in the gutter."
Revs and Cost met several years ago when they were both writing graffiti on buildings and walls in the city. Cost got his name from the tag that he was spray-painting. The two met again a year ago, only to discover that each was wheat-pasting posters with his name around the city, using a mixture of flour and water.
Revs said he adopted his name about a year ago, after almost jumping off the Manhattan Bridge late one night. "Revs is short for Revs Suicide," he said, adding that it stands for many things but declining to elaborate. "I just walked down from the bridge, and ever since that day, I've known what to do."
Cost said: "We both started the campaign by ourselves. I was doing mine, and he was doing his."
Revs and Cost, aware that their signs were arousing curiosity around the city, began putting a telephone number on them. "I like to be incognito, but we have to have some way of contacting the public," Cost explained.
Those who expect to be enlightened over the phone will be disappointed. On an answering machine, the voice of a woman who calls herself "the infamous grandma of graff" (short for graffiti, Revs said), says: "My intuition tells me that you're asking yourselves who are Revs and Cost and what are they doing? What is it? What does it mean? What does it mean? What does it mean?"
Revs and Cost boasted about the calls. "We get 80 calls a day," Cost said. "We've gotten a marriage proposal on there."
"Was it the anti-Cost?" Revs asked his partner. "That chick?"
"Yup."
Revs and Cost warned that the posters are merely the first phase of a campaign that would "tear the city to pieces and rebuild it," Revs said.
"It's starting out as kind of abstract," Revs added mysteriously, "but soon, the pieces are going to form a clear picture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Posters on this temporary structure in Times Square bear the names of the mysterious Cost and Revs. (Jim Pearson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POSTERS INTERVIEWS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



53 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Stocks Are Expensive, But Does It Matter?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
AS 1993 begins, the best thing that can be said for the American stock market is that most of the alternatives may be even worse.
It is not, of course, that stocks are cheap. By most valuation standards, they are far from that. A buyer of the stocks in the Standard and Poor's 500 now is getting a dividend yield of just 2.9 percent. That's less miserly than the 2.7 percent yield just before the 1987 crash, but it is well below historical averages. 
 Stocks don't look a lot cheaper when the current prices are compared to the shares' book value, or to corporate earnings.
But none of that seems to matter to those who are buying stocks. Last week brought the news that mutual fund investors had poured more money into stock funds in November than in any other month in history. The December figure looks like it will be close to that level as well.
One way to look at the $9.9 billion that went into stock funds in November is that it is more than went into all such funds, on a net basis, for the three years 1988 through 1990. And much of that money is going into the riskiest funds, the kind that buy small stocks and hope they will soar. Those hopes are coming true. The Nasdaq composite has risen 16 percent since the end of September, and ended 1992 at a record.
The big losers were professional short-sellers, who bet that stocks they deemed to be overvalued would decline. They typically run money for other people, and the funds they manage were showing decent profits for the year only three months ago. Now they show only red ink, and many fund investors chose to exercise their rights to bail out at year end. One result has been substantial buying of stocks by these funds, pushing prices of some of the least deserving stocks ever higher.
It is tempting to dismiss such things as euphoria and the kind of overconfidence that is present at market tops. And it may be correct to do so. But the question that bears have to answer is simple: If not American stocks, what? European stocks are suffering from weak economies and high German interest rates. Everybody on Wall Street knew a year ago that European bonds were a good investment, and they all lost money on the trade when currencies crumbled. This year the optimism is back, but it is tempered.
In this country real estate looks dubious, and everyone knows how illiquid it can be. Gold is all but forgotten as an investment. Bonds may be attractive, but there is real risk in buying long-term issues, and little reward from buying short-term ones. The banks don't want money, which is why they pay so little for it.
In the 1980's the idea spread that annual returns of 8 percent or more were an inalienable right. With interest rates low, many investors concluded they ought to buy stocks to have a hope of getting the returns they expected.
With that in mind, Wall Street has scheduled a flood of new stock offerings for early 1993. The demand for stocks, in other words, may be equalled by the supply. Or even exceeded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); DIVIDENDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



54 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Some Opportunities Abroad for 1993

BYLINE: By Kenneth N. Gilpin

 BODY:
FOR international equity investors, 1992 was largely a forgettable year, the third straight in which returns on American stocks outpaced gains in foreign markets.
Chances are slim that 1993 will produce a similar result, according to a sampling of portfolio managers here and abroad. Despite the mediocre returns of foreign markets, these professionals maintain that investing in them still makes a great deal of sense. 
 "We continue to be encouraged about 1993 and beyond because growth in many parts of the world continues to outstrip growth in the United States," said Jeffrey Russell, a portfolio manager at Smith Barney's World Funds International Equity portfolio.
"We think that over time you will earn commensurate rewards overseas, and that individual investors should have 15 percent to 20 percent of their assets" invested in foreign stocks.
Peering into 1993, the analysts say they see opportunities in a number of markets.
Despite strong gains over the last two years, Mr. Russell continues to like the prospects of the Mexican market and has 14 percent of his fund's assets invested there, his largest investment in any one country.
Strategists are also more optimistic about Europe's prospects, particularly those countries that have followed Britain's lead and decoupled their currencies from the European Monetary System. That decision has allowed the Bank of England and other central banks to ease interest rates, setting the stage for economic recovery.
"In Europe, we would be in countries that have ended or suspended their ties to the European Monetary System," said Marcus Grubb, an international strategist at Salomon Brothers in London.
As Britain slowly emerges from its long and painful recession this year, Mr. Grubb expects engineering companies like Siebeto to prosper, along with consumer-oriented stocks like Grand Metropolitan, Tate & Lyle and Hanson. He also favors interest-rate-sensitive bank stocks, especially Barclays.
"The markets that got hit the hardest by high interest rates should begin to return to normalcy in 1993," said Harold Sharon, an assistant portfolio manager at the Warburg-Pincus International Equity Fund. "Those markets, which include Finland, Norway, Sweden and Denmark, are the ones that will bounce back, and they are already doing so."
Analysts also expect interest rates to fall in France and Germany, the two remaining pillars of Europe's drive for monetary union.
A decline in French rates should help revive its economy and give stock prices a boost on the Paris Bourse. But the analysts see few gains in German stocks.
"We are not very positive on Germany, even though we think they will cut rates in 1993," said Sandor Cseh, president of Cseh International, a money management firm in Berwyn, Pa. "They have to assimilate East Germany, and that is not an easy task."
Falling European interest rates are not altogether good news for international investors, however, because they tend to strengthen the value of the dollar.
The problems of a stronger dollar were acutely felt by those who had money in the British market during the fourth quarter. As the Bank of England pushed down rates, British stocks rallied strongly in the final three months of 1992, rising by more than 14 percent in local currency terms. But the dollar appreciated even faster against the pound, leaving dollar-based investors with a negative return exceeding 6 percent.
Stability with the dollar is one reason that portfolio managers prefer Hong Kong, whose own dollar is tied to America's.
Despite political tensions between China and the British Governor of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong market was one of the stars of 1992, as share prices rose by more than 24 percent in American dollar terms.
Victoria Goodwin, a senior vice president at James Capel, said she expected a similar performance this year. "Hong Kong's link to the dollar, extremely attractive corporate earnings growth and its relationship with the rapidly developing Chinese economy were the reasons shares did well in 1992 and are the reasons Hong Kong will outperform in 1993," she said.
Elsewhere in Asia, Ms. Goodwin said the nascent American recovery should help lift stock prices in South Korea, whose economy is "highly geared" to consumer-products companies exporting to the United States.
And what of the the world's second-largest stock market, in steady decline for the last two years?
"The big question for any international investor is Japan," Mr. Sharon said.
In dollar terms, share prices fell by more than 20 percent in Tokyo last year. Amid a recession and continued problems in banking and real estate, analysts say, Japanese stocks may fall some more this year. But they also say the deterioration in prices since 1990 had made some issues very attractive.
"You may see some more weakness," said John R. Hickling, manager of Fidelity Investment's International Growth and Income Fund. "But I wouldn't be surprised if at some point six months to a year from now I will read articles saying that fund managers are getting their heads handed to them because they are underinvested in Japan."
Mr. Hickling says he has been buying shares in some Japanese insurers. He also likes Sega and Nintendo, whose computer games "are selling like gangbusters."
And Ms. Goodwin said: "Japan has to be one of the most interesting markets. The second half of 1993 could be the time to invest there."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); FINLAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); DENMARK (55%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: EURONEXT PARIS SA (61%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); FINLAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); DENMARK (55%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BONDS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



55 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: This Week's Numbers

 BODY:


 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Monday	Nov. construct. spending, percent change	1.1	0.3		Dec. purchasing managers index	55	57.7	 	 	 	 	Wednesday	Late Dec. auto sales, annual rate (millions)	6.2	6.7	 	 	 	 	Thursday	Nov. wholesale trade, percent change	-1.0	0.3		Dec. Univ. of Michigan confidence	91.4	95	 	 	 	 	Friday	Dec. unemployment rate, percent	7.5	7.4		Late Dec. non-farm payrolls, thousands	105	85		Dec. change in consumer credit, in billions	$0.2	0.5	
 
Tuesday -- Congress convenes * New European Commission holds first meeting in Brussels
Thursday -- Chain stores report sales * Bundesbank Council meets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (75%); BELGIUM (65%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (65%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (75%); BELGIUM (65%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (88%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (88%); STATISTICS (88%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (86%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



56 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Investors' Sentiment Rises, but Are They Wrong?

BYLINE: BY FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
INVESTORS, like other consumers, are looking over the American economy and finding more to cheer about. That may be a reason for caution in buying stock.
The University of Michigan has been separating out the attitudes of investors, as opposed to more plebeian consumers, for only three years. But the university's survey is already beginning to look as though it might have some value as a contrary indicator. 
 The December survey, conducted for Fidelity Investments, showed an investor sentiment reading of 93.8, up sharply over the past two months. The figure, which measures the attitude of investors toward the economy, had not topped 90 since the summer of 1990, just before Iraq invaded Kuwait, and shortly before stock prices plunged.
By October of that year, when stock prices were bottoming, the survey showed investor sentiment down to 64.1. That was the lowest level in the three years the survey has been conducted, and it came at what proved to be the best time to buy stocks, just before an explosive rally began.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Investors Are in A Better Mood" shows the investor sentiment index. (Source: Fidelity Investments)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FMR CORP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (84%); BONDS (74%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



57 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Careful Picks, Modest Expectations

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
DISAPPOINTED after 1991's big gains, when the average stock fund shot up 30.7 percent, only a handful of investors saw double-digit returns last year -- and 1993 looks like more of the same.
Post-election euphoria sent the stock market spinning up at yearend, but most analysts expect the afterglow to fade. In bonds, there is a chance of perhaps one more interest rate cut as the Federal Reserve gives the economy a final push. Call it a fund-picker's market, in which investors will have to thread their way carefully and should expect modest investment returns. 
 Even so, three investment advisers, asked to craft model portfolios for 1993, showed unusual unanimity. All rejected funds that buy big stocks in favor of those that hold small and mid-sized companies, which are expected to reassert their historic advantage in total return. All also opted for managers who use a value approach, seeking undervalued stocks, rather than growth managers, who buy companies with a potential for above-average earnings growth. Overseas, badly battered Europe was the favorite.
Stay away from the Standard & Poor's 500 in 1993, said Don Phillips, vice president of Morningstar Inc., mutual fund researchers in Chicago, who allocated 90 percent of his model portfolio to domestic stocks.
The big growth stocks that have led the market since 1988 have become very expensive, so Mr. Phillips would divide one-half the portfolio equally between the Strong Common Stock Fund and the Yacktman Fund, both diversified and both favoring small and mid-sized stocks. The funds' managers built good long-term track records elsewhere: Carlene Murphy and Richard Weiss at Stein Roe Special, and Don Yacktman at Selected American Shares. Mr. Phillips calls them good stock-pickers who rummage for value in sluggish markets rather than wait for trends to favor their strategies.
Mr. Phillips said he would invest 30 percent in the Fidelity Balanced Fund, partly as a defensive move because its manager, Robert Haber, "is particularly bearish on S.& P. stocks, so he combines bonds with esoteric stocks, primarily smaller ones with value orientations."
He would allocate 10 percent of the portfolio to the Third Avenue Fund which, because it invests primarily in distressed companies, does not move in synch with the overall market and should profit as the economy moves out of recession.
The final 10 percent is invested in the Financial Strategic European Fund. While there is some currency risk, European shares are cheap today as the region grapples with what some analysts call the equivalent of the 1973-1974 bear market in the United States. Well-known value managers like Warren Buffet and John Templeton are buying there.
Small-capitalization value funds occupy 40 percent of the portfolio constructed by Anthony J. Ogorek, an investment adviser based in Buffalo -- 25 percent in a brand-new fund, Oakmark, run by Robert Sandborn, a value manager who buys mainly smaller companies, and 15 percent to the T. Rowe Price Small Cap Value Fund, which buys and sells stocks more quickly than most others.
The United States stock portion (30 percent) is divided evenly between the Clipper Fund and Stratton Monthly Dividend. Clipper is a traditional value fund that buys mid-sized companies, but unlike most value funds has managed to outperform the S.& P. 500 by two-and-a-half percentage points a year, on average, during the last five years. Stratton, which invests mainly in electric utilities, is managed for yield, now roughly 6.8 percent.
Mr. Ogorek invests the remaining one-third of the portfolio in bond funds, planning to capture gains from what he believes will be another small drop in interest rates. The Fidelity Convertible Securities Fund (15 percent) avoids blue chips and yields about 4 percent. The Vanguard Intermediate Term Municipal Bond Fund, a diversified tax-free fund that holds high-rated issues, yields a little over 5 percent.
The big theme for 1993 is diversification because no one sector is outstanding, said Kenneth E. Gregory, a San Francisco-based investment adviser who edits the L/G No Load Fund Analyst. He would put one-third of his portfolio into United States stocks with a small-cap and value bias. Mutual Discovery (20 percent) is a new offering by Michael Price, whom Mr. Gregory calls a "savvy stock-picker." The fund has a bigger-than-usual exposure to overseas stocks, mainly in Europe. The Monetta Fund (15 percent) focuses primarily on small and mid-sized companies but takes more of a growth approach.
The foreign stock portion (20 percent) would be divided equally between Harbor International (two-thirds in Europe) and the Montgomery Emerging Markets Fund (Latin America and Asia), both of which avoid Japanese investments.
Mr. Gregory would put 15 percent into the Vanguard Corporate High-Yield Fund, which buys top-tier junk issues, to cash in on the improving economy. He would put 25 percent in the Harbor Bond Fund, which has some foreign exposure and a "barbell" strategy -- very short or very long maturities -- to balance the stock portion and because inflation should remain low in '93. The remaining 5 percent would go to the Fidelity REIT Fund, yielding about 6 percent from investments in rental properties.
 
 
 
BUYING THE MANAGERS THEMSELVES
 AS was the case in 1991, investors who bought shares in publicly traded mutual fund companies tended to earn bigger returns in 1992 than those with a portfolio of growth funds.
The Lipper mutual fund management company stock price index, a weighted average of the companies' stock price performance, showed a 16 percent gain in 1992, compared with a scant 7 percent for the Lipper growth fund index. (Franklin Resources and Eaton Vance, having split their shares two-for-one in 1992, are not listed individually.) The management company edge would have been even greater if dividends had been included, as they are in the growth fund index.
The equation is simple: "Assets expanded, and assets mean revenue, which means the stocks perform well," said Stephen A. Schoepke, an analyst with Lipper Analytical Services in Summit, N.J. Assets industrywide grew $250 billion to $1.6 trillion by the end of November, the latest data available.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows total annual mutual fund return by decade (Source: Ibbotson Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE WARREN BUFFETT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



58 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: The Crucial Link for Labor Talks

 BODY:
With talks progressing between the city and its municipal unions, it's crucial that Mayor Dinkins and his negotiators stand firm on the central issue: linking wage increases to productivity gains and other concessions. Should the city abandon that demand, the public will bear the burden.
The latest reports are not encouraging. Initially Mr. Dinkins insisted on a fundamental principle: no increases larger than those in the city's long-range financial plan unless the unions pay for them with concessions and increased productivity. The plan calls for no increases for two years, then an increase of 1.5 percent in the third year and 2 percent in the fourth. 
 The city still wants concessions and productivity gains. But now news accounts indicate that officials are no longer insisting savings pay for the entire wage increase. Such backtracking raises the possibility that the contract won't contain any substantive concessions, which would be a lost opportunity for a city still struggling with recession.
It would also represent a retreat from the kind of leadership Mr. Dinkins displayed in the early going. By demanding productivity and work rule concessions in exchange for larger wage increases, Mr. Dinkins was finally trying to gain the upper hand with the unions that worked to elect him three years ago.
He cannot afford to give in now. Meaningful productivity gains and work rule concessions are essential first steps toward a labor policy that emanates from City Hall, not union halls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; PRODUCTIVITY; WAGES AND SALARIES; EDITORIALS PRODUCTIVITY (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



59 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Two Who Know Thin Ice Affirm a Thaw

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ONE of them was arriving from a war zone, Yevgeny Ignatenko, Mikhail S. Gorbachev's old spokesman, observed the other day, and the other from the killing fields of political combat. One has lost his grip on office; the other lives in peril of doing so.
So when President Bush and Boris N. Yeltsin sit down in Moscow in these early hours of 1993 to sign the most sweeping arms reduction treaty of the nuclear age they do so at a moment when much about their countries' future relationship is hard to fathom. 
 This is George Bush's last hurrah, his final foreign trip as President. Remarkably, it celebrates two achievements that postdate his defeat at the polls, the arms agreement and the use of American and other foreign troops to make possible the effective distribution of food to the starving Somalis. Mr. Bush may have been stunned by his loss but he was not immobilized.
In Little Rock, Bill Clinton waits, just offstage. He has given the second Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II, his tentative blessing. Better to strike a deal, one of his aides said last week, while the striking was good, than to wait until after Jan. 20, when the pressure on both sides to compromise would be greatly lessened by the onset of a new Administration.
Now Mr. Clinton must win Senate ratification for the new treaty, which should not be difficult. He will also have to establish a working relationship with Mr. Yeltsin or whoever succeeds him, which might be more problematical. Most difficult of all, he must decide what, if anything, the United States can do to help stave off economic or political disintegration in Russia and the other countries of the former Soviet Union, which would gravely undermine world stability.
Having made his way through fractious conferences and congresses and having achieved his first big treaty, Mr. Yeltsin still has to worry about his job. Like other Russian leaders before him, he will try to use the accord to suggest that he is the indispensable man who alone can insure a relatively comfortable place for his nation in an uncomfortable world. He can argue that arms reduction frees money for economic development. But conservatives can reply that it weakens the nation and wastes the billions that were spent to develop and produce the weapons now to be cast aside.
If he remains in office, the Russian President will have to take the measure of Mr. Clinton and of the new political climate in Washington and react accordingly. He has faced no such challenge before; Mr. Bush is the only President he has known.
In their rush, both sides have had to yield on what they had considered vital points. The United States, for example, agreed to permit the Russians to reuse 90 silos built for their gargantuan SS-18 missiles for newer, smaller missiles, provided that they are reduced in size by partly filling them with concrete, which would make reconversion much more difficult. Such concessions are the stuff of compromise, of course, but at a less harried moment their consequences could have been more carefully considered by both sides.
Few believe that this treaty is based on miscalculations as grievous as those that marked another momentous conference on Russian soil, the one held in February 1945 at Yalta. Time was short then, too. Churchill lived to rue his judgment of Stalin, delivered in a toast at the final dinner, that "friendship and intimacy with this great man" made the world a safer place for freedom and justice.
Yalta would have been a fine site for the Bush-Yeltsin meeting. It was not chosen because it is no longer in Russia but in Ukraine, which is not a party to the present agreement.
And therein lies one of the greatest threats to the efficacy not only of Start II but also its predecessor, Start I, and of arms reduction in general. A considerable proportion of the old Soviet nuclear arsenal is based in Kazakhstan, Belarus and Ukraine, which have made the right sounds but have not so far joined in either Start I or the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. Getting Ukraine aboard, given the reluctance of some key members of its parliament, poses a big challenge for Mr. Clinton.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Cutting Warheads" shows U.S. and Russia's current nuclear warheads and new limits under the treaty agreed to last week (Source: Arms Control Assoc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; TREATIES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); POLITICS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DISARMAMENT (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STARVATION (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) ; APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



60 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: America Veers Into 1993 Saying It Expects Better

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
"NOW," said Satan, "you have seen your progress down to the present, and you must confess that it is wonderful -- in its way." Thus at the very beginning of this century did Mark Twain, wary celebrant of humanity, feel obliged to imagine Satan urging mankind to spare a moment for gloating darkly over the negative feats of human history, especially the purer malice of war and famine that, he predicted then, would ever trouble us in new forms, as now in Serbia's war and Somalia's starvation. These calamities last into the new year and serve as reminders that Twain's optimism is still to be preferred for the human planet's cycle across time, but that his secret, caustic fears also remain apt.
A reporter, free to wander America last summer and autumn, had to wonder what grotesque parodies of Huck Finn liberty might Twain find now in the urban American specter of young men with automatic pistols warring nightly on one another. "I'm not talking about urban America in the abstract," said Jack Calhoun, an appalled bystander in the machine-pistol combat on his tree-lined street in Washington. "I'm talking about my daily life, the gunfire, two killings in the last two months." 
 How might Twain illuminate the Detroit ghetto where able-bodied young men hold up cardboard pleas -- Will Work -- on the banks of the surrounding freeway each morning? Kenneth Anderson, a job counselor there in one of the nation's harshest areas of unemployment, said the outside nation had better understand that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s concern for a dream was fast being displaced from the minds of young black people by Malcolm X's warning of a nightmare. "We're on a battlefield here," Mr. Anderson testified quietly.
Even in that spark of fresh thoughtfulness in the land -- the confirmation of Malcolm X as a mythic hero -- there seemed reason to pause doubtfully, perhaps at the nation's tendency to merely market-entertain worthy ideas and indulge commerce over resolution, ostensibly producing still another line of the same consumables, of posters, sneakers and caps. As in Twain's time, America is a place to stagger as much as exult. "You think it would be better if I robbed you?" asked Vincent, a member of the growing national legion of beggars, persistently holding out his cup and answering a question with a question amid the street tumult of New York City.
 
Checkout Counter Egalitarians
 But after a stretch of wandering the nation, there seemed a certain sprightliness in comments like Vincent's, and a traveler had to ask whether the nation might be getting more candid about itself rather than darker, dark as Twain's despair about this land when he raged with his "pen warmed up in hell." For beyond the surface sights -- beyond the egalitarian mass marketing of the pathos of Amy Fisher and Queen Elizabeth side by side at the checkout counter, beyond the TV voyeurism of real cops taking the time in the midst of an actual crime wave to imitate TV cops' smashing into suspects' apartments (they truly do shout "Freeze!" simulating themselves), beyond the garnishing of this year's famine relief with a soupcon of chauvinism left from last year's war, beyond bottomless hyperbole for anyone remotely new (even yesteryear's spin doctors were briefly revivified as campaign mercenaries of Ross Perot), beyond even the grisliest examples of Americana -- there was this comfort: Ordinary people could still be searched out in the land, redemptively it seemed, for their honest comments on the status of being alive in a year where improvement was once more hoped for, and change promised and finally voted for in the national elections.
People wondered and grumbled and hoped, but so much more guardedly than a decade ago that they defied politics' usual black-and-white presumptions about hope itself. "He's suffered everything you can suffer, got pounded plenty with scandal, but he stands right there," said one voter, jobless and grizzled, but delighted with the advent of Bill Clinton because of the candidate's character scrapes, not despite them. Sondheim's cynical lyrics, tailored minimally for Mr. Clinton -- He got through all of last year; he's still here! -- could have served as a campaign theme for this champion survivor at taking over a government of the people that has already borrowed on unmade money clear beyond the millennial bend.
The people seemed to understand why President Bush was checking his watch while debate raged about him. In these dwindling days he is bringing a new sense of hurry to the transition of power, darting in a kind of grand loser's lap around the track, rattling his dried laurels in a bit of Desert Storm reprise and willing his successor ongoing intercessions in two of the main world problems ignored in the campaign debate, Somalia's starvation and Serbia's war.
And to the extent that satire is required, only Twain might have applied the proper American savor to the 11th-hour pardons Mr. Bush extended to a clutch of indicted and convicted Administration colleagues. He pronounced them guilty at most of an excess of patriotism in the woolly, mendacious Iran-contra affair that threatens to haunt the President beyond incumbency. At that, ordinary Americans like Doug Ford, resident of one of the nation's scattered tent cities, still might sympathize. "People out there don't realize how easy it is to go from something to nothing," he muttered in a soliloquy on how rough one human's year can get.
 
Nature's Low Priority
 In the more featured public debate, complicated new ideas were being offered by campaign specialists worrying over the economy, and one of them seemed particularly hard to understand in traveling about America's sinewy vastness and beauty -- that natural resources were no longer so important in the competitive world economy as are human resources, the work force's inscrutable talents and whims, and that new kinds of schooling and job creation were the urgent priority. In counterpoint, ordinary Americans were often to be found echoing a line of worry that was heard furiously a year ago in the freshly fallen Soviet empire, in the enduring land where Russians long ago learned to fret almost exclusively in terms of the next generation: My children must not have it worse than me.
"I can't let them down," Bill Belkner said, studying a photo of his two daughters as he waited in an unemployment line in Manchester, N.H. "I have to pick myself up and come back again," he said flatly as he fought off new levels of being down and out and continued waiting in line, patient as a Muscovite. Such troubled Americans were encountered regularly and were memorable for being among the least cynical about the promises being made hourly by the feverish candidates. "It's kind of hopeful, hearing the debates," Mr. Belkner insisted. "The talk of taking chances and turning things around."
Here was the campaign's undeniable optimism, far enough from the sound-bite trough to remind a witness that the people's choosing a leader is not so much an event for engineering the future as for wishing it well and at least getting ordinary people on record in some fashion against "this long array of crimson spectacles" that Twain had Satan smugly enjoy and anticipate as mankind's history and fate.
In the latest wintry transition of planet and politics, Mr. Belkner's hope for his daughters seems risky but unavoidable, the heightened expectations of the ordinary people needed to stoke nation and earth toward another spring. There were ordinary pessimists, too, who were interesting to witness brushing past the fading era's main questions of hope and politics. "All that doom and gloom just to get themselves elected," growled Tom Liston, a long-haul truck driver, descending from his dieseled perch to hurry on to his breakfast at the Sioux City Truck Haven. He seemed stuck with more work than worry, too busy with life's routine to despair of it. The man was brusque as Twain's Satan, but he was less celebratory about the squalor and doubt that remains in the running with human progress. "We will drink each other's health, and let civilization go," Twain had his Satan declare acidly in a challenge that turns forward with the earth.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FORECASTS; PUBLIC OPINION ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); STARVATION (76%); FAMINE (76%); POLITICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SHOOTINGS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



61 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
In Tune Now, U.N.'s Quintet Plays Themes Penned in '45

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
WITH the cold war over, the United States appears to be calling the shots on a Security Council that is finally displaying the awesome powers the United Nations' founders endowed it with in the San Francisco Charter of 1945.
From driving the Iraqis out of Kuwait to providing famine relief to Somalia, American initiatives have been the essential catalyst for the council's renaissance. Now, as fears mount that the Balkan conflict could spread south from Bosnia, the United States is pressing for firmer Security Council measures against the Serbs. 
The council's new assertiveness and America's dominant position on it have worried some countries still used to a world paralyzed by superpower rivalry.
Some complain that Washington has hijacked the council for its own ends. And many now clamor for additional seats for themselves.
Nevertheless, America often seems ambivalent about its dominance. Badly behind in its payments to the organization, the United States has selectively sought the United Nations' blessing for its foreign policy initiatives, preferring to act unilaterally in Panama, for instance, and refusing to disarm the whole of Somalia -- as Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has urged.
Yet the council's expanding role is hardly surprising now that the interests of its founding powers largely converge behind America's leadership. When the council was created by the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain, France and China after World War II, the Big Five intended it to be the instrument through which they together would project their power to preserve peace.
This is why they gave it almost limitless authority to enforce its orders, and put themselves firmly in control, with permanent membership and individual vetoes over decisions. The combination was intended not only to make the Big Five an irresistible collective force as long as their interests coincided; it was also to prevent any of the five from using the council's awesome powers for any purpose that conflicted with the interests of another.
Writing in 1945, R. Keith Kane, an adviser to the American delegation at San Francisco, argued that peace would prevail so long as "the three powers of the first magnitude" -- the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union -- cooperated.
The cold war long prevented such cooperation, of course. But now the council has awakened, authorizing more peacekeeping operations in the last four years than in the previous 40, while expanding its authority.
Once peacekeeping forces merely monitored cease-fires with the agreement of the warring sides. Today they are increasingly used to disarm opposing forces and take over governing as free elections are organized.
The council has also slapped embargoes on a growing list of countries. It has overseen the destruction of Iraq's most dangerous weapons. And it has sent armed forces to safeguard relief deliveries in Bosnia, Somalia and Iraqi Kurdistan.
As the council flexes its muscles, the frontiers of national sovereignty are being rolled back. When it ordered Libya to surrender suspects in the bombings of American and French airliners, it effectively declared that country incapable of giving them a fair trial -- a decision the World Court upheld. And when it authorized sending forces into Somalia, it expanded its own jurisdiction by deciding that a "human tragedy" could threaten international peace. "The centuries- old doctrine of absolute and exclusive sovereignty no longer stands," Secretary General Boutros-Ghali wrote.
The United States has been the chief beneficiary of the council's growing authority because it can get its way in its deliberations and thus win legitimacy for American policies. Once Britain and France are on America's side, a weakened Russia, desperate for aid, joins their ranks while China, even if it has reservations, prefers to abstain rather than cross swords with the other four.
The council's 10 non-permanent members, which serve two-year terms, find it hard to resist the permanent five. In the council's current makeup, for example, Belgium aligns with Britain and France, fellow members of the European Community; two other council members, Austria and Hungary, have applied to join the community and follow the British-French lead.
Seven council seats are normally held by developing nations, and they theoretically can block any decision because passage requires at least 9 of the 15 votes. But the seven are reluctant to jeopardize relations with the more powerful, aid-giving countries; in any case, the developing world has temporarily lost its "sixth veto" because Japan is occupying one of the Asian seats usually filled by a poorer country.
Many countries without permanent seats now argue that they should have them, calling its present composition anachronistic. Germany and Japan, as industrial powers, want a permanent say, as do the larger developing countries like India, Nigeria and Brazil.
Originally, military prowess was considered necessary for permanent council membership, to enable the organization to prevent the rise of another Hitler. Today, threats to peace tend to be more local and often have their roots in poverty -- giving rise to arguments in favor of regional and economic powers.
This year's General Assembly took a first step toward enlarging the Security Council by adopting an Indian resolution asking the Secretary General to prepare a formal report this year on the issue.
One plan would add five new permanent seats without vetoes, giving one each to Germany and Japan and perhaps rotating the other three among the biggest developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
Fearful of opening a Pandora's box of reform demands, the permanent members have shown little enthusiasm for change. And Germany and Japan, the Second World War's two major losers, have hesitated to press their claims for permanent seats.
Even if the council is enlarged, American influence might not decline. Germany and Japan are likely to ally with the Big Five. That would leave the council's third- world members facing a bigger military-industrial bloc, accounting for most of their aid and trade. Quarreling with it could be even more dangerous than disagreeing with the permanent five.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SOMALIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SOMALIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (87%); WORLD WAR II (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FAMINE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



62 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-13
 
A PROPOSAL TO REMAP BOSNIA
Leaders of factions involved in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina met in Geneva and began discussing plans to redraw the map of the former Yugoslav republic into 10 provinces. Creation of these regions, to be dominated in various areas by each of the combatants or in combination, would be an attempt to recognize territorial demands without formally engaging in ethnic partition. 1
Guests dodged snipers to attend a New Year's lunch in Sarajevo. 6
IN TOKYO, LESS WINING AND DINING
Japan seems to be turning away from its conspicuous consumption of the late 1980's. Sales of Cognac and designer handbags are declining, and some say the trend may last. 1
U.N. PLANS SOMALI PEACE TALKS
Secretary General Boutros-Ghali is in Somalia today, between stops in neighboring Ethiopia, where he is to convene a meeting of leaders of many of Somalia's battling factions in the hope of restoring some measure of civil authority. 3
BUSH ARRIVES IN MOSCOW
Keeping President Yeltsin's weak domestic position in mind, the United States made significant concessions in a nuclear arms reduction treaty with Russia, Administration officials said. President Bush arrived in Moscow to sign the pact. 8
PANEL OPPOSES NEW KENYA VOTE
An election-monitoring group said that fraud marred Kenya's balloting last week. But it declined to endorse calls for a new vote. 3
 
Lithuania's new Foreign Minister says policy has been too insular. 7
Afghanistan's new President pleaded for unity after a disputed vote. 9
Archeologists find the model of an early horse in Syria. 10
Russian defector says faulty radar doomed Korean airliner in 1983. A10
The P.L.O. says droves of Palestinian refugees have left Lebanon. 11
For Venezuela's Muslims, the highest minaret in the West. 13
 
National 14-22
 
AN UNSETTLING LEGACY
As President Bush submits a budget outline to Congress this week, he leaves his successor a Federal debt whose size will severely narrow the new Administration's options. 1
Clinton is expected to fill top White House posts this week. 19
Twelve earlier Commanders in Chief never served in uniform. 20
The new national security adviser finally "drives the tractor." 16
Bush's Iran-contra deposition of 1988 was videotaped. 17
THE WINTER OF CONTENT
This is the time of cuddling, coddling and cooing, that brief, heady respite in which Americans treat their new President like a just-born baby. He'd better enjoy it while he can. 1
NEW SEASON ON CAPITOL HILL
The 103d Congress will convene on Tuesday, with the Democratic majority hoping to prove that inaction in Washington can end now that there will be a Democratic President. 16
In Texas, there is no stampede to succeed Bentsen. 14
AN ISLAND UNDER SIEGE
The North American Free Trade Agreement is posing a threat to Puerto Rico's economic gains. 1
WHERE THE CELLS ARE EMPTY
Two years ago, needing an economic lift, the quiet farming town of Appleton, Minn., decided to go into the prison business. What it needs now are prisoners. 14
PSYCHIATRY AND THE CHURCH
The long period of rocky relations between psychiatry and the Roman Catholic Church appears over. Indeed, many leaders of the profession who will meet with the Pope tomorrow are themselves Catholics. 22
 
A robot's descent into a volcano was called off when a cable broke. 15
 
Metro 23-28
 
FIGHT OVER APPROACH TO AIDS
Earlier this month, St. Vincent's Hospital abruptly cancelled its annual observance of World AIDS Day. The move offered a glimpse into a tug-of-war between the Roman Catholic Church and the public health establishment over how to prevent new infections. 1
ARMORED BUT NOT INVINCIBLE
They are entrusted with the ultimate in valuables. But the largely unregulated courier services that deliver billions of dollars in the New York area are dismayingly vulnerable to theft, officials say. 23
Methods differ for transporting cash. 26
 
The watch for the Messiah in Crown Heights. 23
 
Obituaries 30
 
Neediest Cases 28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SOMALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KENYA (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JAPAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SOMALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KENYA (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JAPAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); ELECTION MONITORING (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



63 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: BALKAN FACTIONS BEGIN NEW TALKS

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Leaders of five factions involved in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina today began preliminary discussions of a proposal to redraw the republic based on a detailed map that carves it into 10 provinces.
In presenting the just-completed map, Lord Owen of Britain, co-chairman of the talks here, told the leaders of three separate Bosnian delegations representing Serbs, Croats and Muslims, and representatives from Croatia and Serbia, that the proposal was based on an attempt to "arbitrate" the conflicting territorial claims of the three ethnic groups.
 
A Demilitarized Sarajevo
 Under the plan, Bosnia would relinquish most governmental functions to the provinces. Lord Owen said that if the plan was accepted, Sarajevo would be demilitarized and the new provinces would be "areas as geographically coherent as possible, taking into account ethnic, geographical, historical, communication, economic viability and other relevant factors." . 
 The map envisages three provinces in which the Muslims would be predominant, one in which the ethnic Serbs would be predominant, and five in which power would be shared by Muslims and Croats or Serbs. A United Nations spokesman said that none of the provinces would be "ethnically pure," an aspect the Bosnian Government had feared in any plan to redraw the former Yugoslav republic.
The Bosnian Government has said it wants to maintain the territorial integrity of the Bosnian state, but has been willing to support the idea of territorial entities if they are not based on ethnic partitioning.
Although the Serbs technically would have control of only one province, the area where it would share power is broad and includes two enclaves lying within or beside provinces where Muslim majorities prevail.
Under the proposal, Serbian and Croatian forces would be called upon to withdraw to specific provinces and the remainder of the provinces would have to reach local agreement on deployments. In addition, the United Nations ban on military flights over Bosnia would remain in force with the exception of medical evacuation flights.
The framework for a new constitution outlines provincial and central Government legislatures that would be elected democratically, "with most governmental functions carried out by its provinces." The presidency would be organized on the basis of parity among the ethnic groups, and a constitutional court would be created with a member from each ethnic group but with a majority of non-Bosnian judges chosen by the conference co-chairmen.
 
 
Artillery Duels Reported
 As 25 official delegates took their seats around a rectangular table at 11 A.M. today, there were reports of scattered artillery duels between Bosnian Muslim and Bosnian Serb forces from various regions of the republic.
Cyrus R. Vance, a former Secretary of State and the other co-chairman of the conference, told the delegates: "The process we are starting today can make the difference between peace and war, between life and death for thousands of people. Those gathered around this table have it in their power to prevent it from sliding into escalation or expansion of the conflict."
 The meeting was closed, but a United Nations official who attended said all sides "spoke quite moderately." None of their statements were released to the press.
Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb whose forces hold two-thirds of the mountainous republic's territory, warned that his side would not willingly give up what he called "Serb lands" in Bosnia, the United Nations official said. Mr. Karadzic did declare that he wanted a peace settlement and would "stay as long as necessary" to achieve that, the United Nations official said.
Mr. Karadzic also said he would close camps where some 1,333 Muslim and Croat prisoners are held, according to the official. In discussions with Mr. Vance and Lord Owen before the conference he made some territorial concessions.
 
Muslim Delegation 'Very Glum'
 President Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia declared that all sides must accept the peace plan. He acknowledged holding 847 Serb prisoners and said he agreed to opening his detention camps to International Red Cross inspection.
The United Nations official said the Bosnian delegation was "very glum." He noted that on Friday night Mr. Izetbegovic had declared to his delegation, "We are under duress -- war is the only solution."
The leader of the Bosnian Croats, Mate Boban, whose forces have seized a large chunk of Bosnia, agreed with the principles behind the plan, a United Nations official said.
Lord Owen said that "Sarajevo should be demilitarized at the earliest possible date" and re-created as "an open city" with three access routes across lines of military confrontation. "These routes would effectively lift the siege of Sarajevo," he said.
He said the plan included a proposal for five "throughways" in the republic in which there would be "full freedom of movement" to be guaranteed by international forces. These forces would also control crossings between provinces to insure that military units did not transgress.
 
Observers at Border
 Under the plan, United Nations observers would be posted at border points, Lord Owen said, but the sanctity of the borders in terms of arms smuggling would also have to be guaranteed by the authorities of neighboring Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro.
Dobrica Cosic, the President of the Yugoslav Republic, consisting of Serbia and Montenegro, attended the talks, as did President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia.
 Mr. Cosic, said it was "high time the siege of Sarajevo should be ended." The siege is now in its ninth month. Mr. Cosic, whose republic is indirectly involved in the Bosnian fighting, also said that a settlement "could be the seed for a different future for the Balkans."
Mr. Tudjman thanked the United Nations for its efforts to bring peace to Bosnia, noting that Mr. Vance had succeeded in ending the war between Croatia and Serbia just one year ago.
The urgency of the talks was underscored here on Friday by Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations, who said this was "the last chance for peace" in the Balkans.
Mr. Boutros-Ghali and his deputies have discussed the mounting pressure for international military intervention from some Western leaders including President Bush, President Francois Mitterrand of France and Prime Minister John Major of Britain.
His deputies conducting the International Conference on Former Yugoslavia here have warned all week of a buildup of 10,000 mostly Muslim troops on Mount Igman, southwest of Sarajevo. They said the troops might try to break the nine-month siege of the capital by Bosnian Serb forces.
 
Working Groups Formed
 After the delegates heard the presentation by the co-chairmen and the comments of the delegation leaders, two working groups were formed to discuss the proposals, the first on lifting the siege of Sarajevo and disengaging military forces throughout the republic and the second on the drafting of the new constitution.
Characterizing the first day of talks, Fred Eckhard, the spokesman for the co-chairmen, said that leaders of all five delegations had demonstrated "a serious willingness to negotiate."
More working group meetings are scheduled on Sunday and the next full session is set for Monday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leaders of the warring factions in Bosnia and Herzegovina gathered yesterday in Geneva to discuss a political arrangement. From left, Alija Izetbegovic, President of Muslim-led Bosnia and Herzegovina; Radovan Karadzic, leader of Bosnia's ethnic Serbs; Franjo Tudjman, President of Croatia, and Dobrica Cosic, President of the truncated Yugoslav federation. They were among 25 delegates attending. (Associated Press, Agence France-Presse) (pg. 6)
 
Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA (YUGOSLAVIA); SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA); GREAT BRITAIN BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (57%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID; OWEN (LORD); VANCE, CYRUS R DAVID ANTHONY LLEWELLYN OWEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



64 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Threatens Puerto Rico's Economic Rise

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R.

 BODY:
Since becoming a self-governing commonwealth 40 years ago, Puerto Rico has built the most prosperous economy in the Caribbean, creating thousands of manufacturing jobs by offering companies a lower-paid work force and tax incentives not available on the American mainland.
But with the signing in December of the North American Free Trade Agreement, that economic strategy and the gains it has brought the island's 3.6 million people face daunting new challenges. If approved by Congress, the trade agreement will integrate the United States, Mexico and Canada into a single market and, officials here fear, encourage American companies here to take advantage of even lower wages in Mexico. 
 "What happens with Nafta and the other treaties that will surely follow is that the advantage Puerto Rico enjoys as a territory of the United States is no longer an exclusive advantage," said Pedro J. Rossello, the 48-year-old doctor who is Puerto Rico's new Governor. "Some of our advantages, such as lower wages, will simply disappear, and others will face constant threats."
 
Relying on Tax Benefits
 As an immediate consequence of the impending trade pact, Puerto Rico will become more reliant than ever on the benefits of Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code, which exempts American corporations from paying taxes on the profits they earn here. The more than 600 such companies account for tens of thousands of jobs and generate an estimated $11 billion a year in earnings, which are allowed to be shifted to the mainland after paying a modest "tollgate tax."
But even that tax advantage is threatened. The incoming Clinton Administration has promised to reduce the Federal budget deficit and is also under pressure to halt the flight of jobs from the American mainland. Both Congress and the Treasury Department have shown interest in proposals to abolish or reduce Section 936 exemptions, a move that could raise as much as $2.6 billion a year in tax revenues.
Losing the tax benefits at the same time that the trade agreement is being carried out would be a "double whammy" that could lead to a "total collapse" of the economy, Rafael Hernandez Colon, Puerto Rico's previous Governor, said in an interview at the Governor's Mansion in December. "If there is no 936, there is nothing more to talk about," he said.
The tax benefits would also have to be eliminated, though, if Puerto Rico became a state, as advocated by Dr. Rossello's New Progressive Party, which resoundingly won November's elections. Dr. Rossello has promised to hold a plebiscite on Puerto Rico's political status sometime in 1993, a pledge that has compounded the uncertainty prevailing among policy makers and business executives here.
"What is at stake right now is the economic future of Puerto Rico," said Hector Jimenez Juarbe, executive director of the Puerto Rico Manufacturers' Association. "This is a defining moment for us in many respects, from the status of our relationship with the United States to what kind of social, education and investment policies we want to promote."
 
Worry Is Mexico
 For most decision makers in government and business here, the principal concern is how to compete with Mexico if, as expected, the trade agreement goes into effect. Not only is Mexico closer to California, Texas and other major American markets than Puerto Rico, which is 1,000 miles from the mainland and must ship its products by sea or air, but it has a much larger labor pool that is willing to work for considerably less than Puerto Rico's.
For a generation, Puerto Rico's relatively low wages have attracted employers. About 40 percent of the island's economic production now comes from industries like clothing, rum, food processing, or chemicals, and hundreds of thousands of families have been provided secure, well-paying jobs that enable them to own homes and cars and do their shopping amid an abundance of malls.
But "Puerto Rico can no longer compete on the basis of cheap wages," Dr. Rossello acknowledged in an interview at party headquarters in December. "Even though salaries here are half those on the American mainland, on average they are four times Mexican wages. In any industry that depends on cheap labor, we are going to be at a disadvantage."
Augusto Amato, an economic consultant and former head of the economic planning department at Banco Popular, the leading bank here, estimates that the average hourly wage in Puerto Rico is at about $6.50, with "peaks of up to $13 an hour in some industries." By his calculations, Mexican workers doing the same type of jobs earn an average of only $1.40 an hour.
 
Opposition to Pact
 Among the industries regarded as the most vulnerable are several that have been pillars of Puerto Rico's economic growth for decades. Government and private analysts predict the rum industry will continue to flourish, and may even benefit from access to the Mexican market, but worry that some jobs will be lost in textiles and apparel, tuna, leather and agriculture.
In December, the National Puerto Rican Coalition, which represents some 100 Puerto Rican community and advocacy groups here and on the mainland, became the first major Hispanic organization to publicly oppose the trade agreement. The president of the coalition, Lou Nunez, said that the agreement would "make a bad economic situation even worse, because Puerto Ricans rely on the very jobs that would be eliminated" both here and in urban areas in Northeast states.
"We're going to have to take a few hits, there's no question about it," said Mr. Hernandez Colon. Unemployment here ran well over 20 percent in the mid 1980's, but dropped to 16 percent by December. About 17.5 percent of the work force is employed in manufacturing, as against 28 percent in government and about 25 percent in services, which includes tourism.
 
Less Regulation Overseas
 Beyond the issue of wages, there are also concerns that some of the hundreds of companies operating here may find the Mexico's less-regulated economic environment an irresistible lure to relocate. "Don't forget about the F.D.A., E.P.A., OSHA and their rules," Mr. Jimenez said, referring to several Federal regulatory agencies. "All those things are in place here, but not in Mexico."
But many political and business leaders believe that in the long run the trade agreement will prove to be a boon to the economy of Puerto Rico, generating new jobs and raising living standards beyond the current per capita income of $6,000 a year. Their optimism is based on faith in a well-trained, stable and largely bilingual work force that could help Puerto Rico emerge as a regional base for American and foreign companies, particularly those making high-tech products, that want to export to Latin American countries.
"We have the American flag here, which is very important," said Manuel Casiano, publisher of "Caribbean Business" magazine and a former head of the Economic Development Administration, a Government agency. "It means we have the U.S. dollar, customs and immigration, and if you run into a problem, there are U.S. Federal courts here. That's a lot of stability."
In the past, economic policymakers might also have been able to reduce some of the impact of the trade agreement by emphasizing the benefits that the Section 936 tax benefits offered to potential investors. Given the political climate in Washington and Dr. Rossello's drive for statehood, however, "there is no way to predict what is going to happen with 936," said Arthur Mann, a professor of economics at the University of Puerto Rico. "It's a factor of instability as far as business is concerned, and business doesn't like instability of any sort."
Additional concerns have arisen from judicial challenges to the tax benefits, most notably a case in which the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union sued American Home Products, makers of Dristan, Advil, Anacin and other over-the-counter remedies, and Puerto Rican officials. The suit asserted that to gain tax benefits, the company and the officials conspired to claim falsely that the relocation of a factory from Indiana to Puerto Rico would not eliminate jobs on the mainland.
Two years after the Puerto Rico plant opened in Oct. 1988, the Indiana factory was closed, and 775 people, mostly union members, were laid off. This fall, the suit was settled out of court after American Home Products agreed to pay $24 million to workers. But the union continues to participate in A.F.L.-C.I.O. efforts to amend Section 936, arguing that tax incentives in Puerto Rico harm mainland jobs.
 
Issue of Parking Profits
 The case has had considerable impact here, not only on economic grounds but also as an unpleasant reminder of the island's second-class political status. Many Puerto Ricans who followed the case were wounded by remarks that appeared to classify the relocation not as a transfer from one American jurisdiction to another, but as another example of a third world country trying to steal American jobs.
"This is part of the United States, and we are American citizens too," Mr. Jimenez said. "If these plants don't come here, they are not going to remain on the mainland. They are going to take those jobs to other countries."
At the Federal level, in both Congress and the Treasury Department, there is also some irritation that companies may be parking profits in Puerto Rico to avoid taxes on the mainland. Speaking on condition he not be identified, an economist who regularly deals with government officials and businesses, acknowledged the problem, saying that "home offices do sell goods to their subsidiaries in Puerto Rico for low, low prices and then buy back the finished product at a high price, which allows them to show little or no profit on the mainland, and a large, nontaxable profit here."
Dr. Rossello has promised that, though he favors statehood, he will fight to maintain the tax benefits as long as Puerto Rico remains a commonwealth. But he made it clear that he is also thinking of long-range alternatives that will allow the island to wean itself from its dependence on the tax benefits.
"We have to rethink our economic model," he said. "Puerto Rico has obviously built an economy based on tax incentives, but we have to get away from the one dimensional posture of '936 or nothing,' because that is going to result in our getting nothing.
"You have to ask, what is the purpose of 936? Is it to create big profits, or is it to stimulate job creation?"
Dr. Rossello's Administration is expected to press for some sort of Federal mechanism that could substitute for the tax benefits if they are eliminated or reduced. "I don't think it is fair for Congress to suddenly eliminate all or part of 936 and not give us anything in return," said Marcos Rodriguez-Ema, the new head of the Government Development Bank.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A clothing factory in Puerto Rico may soon lose some of the advantages of the island's being an American commonwealth. (Jose Rodriquez for The New York Times) (pg. 1); "What happens with Nafta and the other treaties that will surely follow is that the advantage Puerto Rico enjoys as a territory of the United States is no longer an exclusive advantage," said Pedro J. Rossello. He was inaugurated yesterday as Governor of Puerto Rico. (Associated Press) (pg. 21)
 
Graphs: "Puerto Rico at a Crossroads" shows the gross national product and personal disposable income in the U.S. and Puerto Rico from '81 to '91 (Sources: Datastream; Economic Analysis Bureau; Puerto Rico Planning Board) (pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CANADA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO; MEXICO; UNITED STATES; CANADA PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CANADA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STATEHOOD (US); REFERENDUMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TAX EXEMPTIONS ; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REFERENDUMS (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); APPAREL MFG (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TRENDS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; ROSSELLO, PEDRO J (GOV) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



65 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: GROWING U.S. DEBT IS LIMITING OPTIONS OPEN FOR CLINTON

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
America's vast and growing Federal debt is sharply narrowing the options available to President-elect Bill Clinton as he prepares to reshape the budget that President Bush will submit to Congress next week.
That process, which will take place in the coming weeks, will mark a turning point for the new President. The act of subjecting his campaign promises to the discipline of budget-making will give the country a first look at his real fiscal intentions, just as Ronald Reagan's first budget message of Feb. 18, 1981, provided a blueprint for the entire Reagan revolution. 
 Already some things are clear. Mr. Clinton's promises to create jobs and bolster investment to reinvigorate the economy will be tempered by the Federal debt, which is growing faster than the economy. And the costs of servicing the debt are consuming a larger portion of the Government's resources.
 
Doubts About the Deficit
 Since Mr. Reagan took office, the debt has quadrupled, to more than $3 trillion today from $735 billion in January 1981. Last year, for the first time since the late 1950's, the debt was more than half the size of the entire economy. The cost of interest, $199 billion in the last fiscal year, now exceeds the total of all Federal spending for education, science, law enforcement, transportation, housing, food stamps and welfare.
In comments that reflect troubling prospects for the President-elect, Clinton aides, members of Congress from both parties and private economists expressed general agreement on the following points:
*Mr. Clinton probably cannot "cut the deficit in half within four years," as he promised in his campaign manifesto. This task has become more difficult since the manifesto was issued in June, because assumptions about economic growth are less optimistic now. Health costs are also rising faster than expected, and Congress postponed costs associated with the savings and loan bail out.
*To impose fiscal austerity on a weak economy would abort the current recovery and lead to larger budget deficits in the long run. Congressional Democrats will support measures to reduce the deficit over five years, but see an urgent need for the Government to help create jobs and stimulate the economy in 1993.
*The Federal debt will reach the current legal limit in March or the first half of April. Congress must raise the ceiling on Government borrowing, or the Government cannot operate. Some members of Congress will try to use the debt-limit legislation as a vehicle for far-reaching changes in the Congressional budget process. Such efforts may disrupt Mr. Clinton's timetable and agenda with a bruising partisan debate over budget policy.
*Congress will probably be more willing than Mr. Clinton to cut military spending and foreign aid, but less willing to cut domestic programs.
The sluggish economy has contributed to the growth in the Federal debt. New calculations by the Congressional Budget Office show that the debt is now 51.1 percent of the gross domestic product, up from 47.8 percent in 1991 and 26.5 percent in 1981, when Mr. Reagan became President. The debt has not been so large, in relation to economic output, since the late 1950's, when it reflected much of the bill left over from World War II.
 
'Feeding on Itself'
 Statistics compiled by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development show that the ratio of public debt to economic output is higher in the United States than in Germany, France or Britain. For every dollar it spends, the United States Government takes in 79 cents.
Rudolph G. Penner, director of economic studies at KPMG Peat Marwick, the accounting concern, said the rising Federal debt was "the single most important indicator of our fiscal irresponsibility."
"As long as it's rising, the problem is feeding on itself," said Mr. Penner, who was director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1983 to 1987. "The interest bill is rising faster than our incomes or tax revenues. Interest is absorbing more and more of our resources."
As a result, economists say, there is less money available for the type of productive investment that Mr. Clinton wants to encourage. When the Government borrows, it diverts money from private savings that could otherwise be used for investment in housing, factories, new technology, education and job training.
The conventional wisdom of mainstream economists is that increased Government borrowing also tends to increase interest rates, especially long-term rates.
Mr. Reagan liked to quote Thomas Jefferson's description of public debt as "the greatest of the dangers to be feared" from Government. In 1982, Mr. Reagan cited the Federal debt, then $1 trillion, as a symptom of "the chaos, confusion and all-purpose mess left us by the failed policies of the past." Mr. Clinton made a similar argument against the Reagan and Bush Administrations in last year's Presidential campaign.
Mr. Bush's final budget will be an abbreviated version of the budget usually sent to Congress by a President. Instead of proposing tax increases or cuts, new programs and altered priorities, it will simply show the course of Federal spending over the next five years if current policies remain unchanged.
But in electing Mr. Clinton, voters said they wanted to change those policies. "What Bush sends up is generally irrelevant at this point," said Senator Jim Sasser, the Tennessee Democrat who is chairman of the Budget Committee.
So it will be up to Mr. Clinton to propose the program cuts or tax increases needed to supply the revenue he will need to finance new jobs and investment. With a Democratic Congress, he will have some help, though nobody says it will be easy.
Twelve years of partisan warfare between Congress and the White House over the Federal budget will presumably end this year. The new budget director, Leon E. Panetta, and his deputy, Alice M. Rivlin, are respected by Democrats and Republicans alike. They start with more good will than Mr. Bush's budget director, Richard G. Darman, or Mr. Reagan's first budget director, David A. Stockman, ever had.
Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said: "With Leon and Alice, there should be much less gimmickry and fancy budgetary footwork. The budget should be much more easily understood."
Mr. Sasser went further. "For the first time in 12 years," he said, "you will see some Congressional input into the budget that evolves in the executive branch. Rather than presenting us with a fait accompli, I anticipate that the new Administration will be consulting Congress to ascertain what is doable and what is just not possible. We'll spend less time running down rabbit tracks that produce nothing but frustration and exhaustion, and more time examining viable options for reducing the deficit."
Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, the ranking Republican on the new House Budget Committee, said he was willing to cooperate with Mr. Clinton, but saw no need for tax increases, which are favored by many Democrats. Also, he said, he is suspicious of the way Mr. Clinton uses the term investment to justify certain types of Government spending.
"The idea of investment sounds calming and reassuring," Mr. Kasich said. "Many Democrats have latched onto it. But what does it really mean? Spending more Federal dollars on more Federal programs.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Growing Burden" shows total Federal debt held by the public from '50 to '90 (Source: Congressional Budget Office) (pg. 1); "A Budget Drain" shows interest payments on the national debt from '50 to '90 (Source: Congressional Budget Office) (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PUBLIC DEBT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



66 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Choice for National Security Adviser Has a Long-Awaited Chance to Lead

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
As a youth working during the summer on a Connecticut farm, W. Anthony Lake would walk behind tractors and toss bales of hay into a wagon. "One day," he often promised himself, "I'm going to drive the tractor."
For several years, as a gentleman farmer raising 28 head of cattle on his 140-acre farm in Worthington, Mass., Mr. Lake has fulfilled his wish. Now, as President-elect Bill Clinton's choice to become national security adviser, he is about to climb into the driver's seat in his other field of endeavor: foreign policy. 
 After two stints as a chief lieutenant to others who formulated the nation's international policy, Mr. Lake is about the grasp the levers of power himself -- and hoping his new tour produces a happier ending than the last two.
 
Served Nixon and Carter
 The first time around his conscience drove him away from the prestige and power that came with being a trusted assistant to Henry A. Kissinger, then President Richard M. Nixon's national security adviser. The second time it was the voters who sent Mr. Lake packing when they turned out President Jimmy Carter -- a defeat that was, in part, a rejection of policies that Mr. Lake, as director of policy planning in the State Department, had helped devise.
"When the Carter Administration ended I thought he had been permanently tainted for mistakes that were not his fault," said Jenonne Walker, who worked with Mr. Lake in the State Department. "I'm really glad to have been proved wrong."
For Mr. Lake -- and thus for Mr. Clinton -- to avoid the fate of the last Democratic Administration, they will have to chart a new foreign policy and navigate a new bureaucratic landscape without the benefit of a map. The collapse of the Soviet Union, the rise of ethnic conflicts and the use of military intervention for humanitarian aims, as in Somalia, present nettlesome new challenges that will require innovative solutions sustained by popular support at home.
 
Career in Foreign Service
 Mr. Lake brings with him a set of experiences and a personality that set him apart from the men who have occupied the position in the past. Unlike Brent Scowcroft, General Colin L. Powell, Robert C. MacFarlane and John M. Poindexter, Mr. Lake is not a career military officer. Unlike Mr. Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzezinski, he is not viewed as a self-promoter.
A career foreign-service officer, Mr. Lake has argued in books and articles that the views of professional diplomats have not been given enough consideration in recent years.
He supported the idea of self-determination for developing countries, but also viewed "national liberation movements" with a jaundiced eye. During the 1992 campaign he was among the Clinton foreign-policy advisers who advocated a hawkish stance on Bosnia.
"If you look at the people who have been around Clinton, for the most part, they have had long-term relationships with him," said Richard Feinberg, who served with Mr. Lake in the State Department. "But here's a guy who Clinton hardly knows at all, and he makes him national security adviser. How how do you explain that?
"I think the answer is that Tony is really an extraordinarily intelligent guy who at the same time is self-effacing, not at all self-promoting and also very loyal to the people he works with."
But Mr. Lake also carries the legacy of the Carter foreign policy, including its successes and its shortcomings, especially its handling of the Iran hostage crisis.
He was intimately involved in the formulation of Mr. Carter's policy toward Rhodesia, where pressure by the United States and Britain finally forced the white-minority government of Ian Smith to cede power in a peaceful transition to majority rule.
On the other hand, Mr. Lake was part of the brain trust of Cyrus Vance, the Secretary of State who advocated a more accommodating stance toward the Soviet Union. That view took a beating from conservatives, and after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Mr. Carter himself adopted a tougher policy.
The basic tenets of Mr. Lake's view of foreign policy are that with the end of the cold war, the terms "hawks" and "doves" are outmoded, and that with the defeat in the primaries of isolationist candidates like Patrick J. Buchanan, interventionism has won out.
The new foreign-policy debate, Mr. Lake has argued, is between those who, like President Bush, see the world through a classic balance-of-power prism and those who, like Mr. Clinton and himself, take a more "neo-Wilsonian" view in which the United States uses its military and economic power to intervene in promoting democracy.
Mr. Lake entered the foreign service in 1962 after completing post-graduate work at Cambridge. A believer in President John F. Kennedy's anti-communist policy in Southeast Asia, he volunteered to work in Vietnam.
In a revealing 1975 magazine article he wrote with his wife, Antonia, Mr. Lake recalled his initial heady attraction to operating around powerful men who were making important decisions -- for a time, he was a special assistant to Henry Cabot Lodge, then the ambassador to South Vietnam -- and around military men of action. In one passage he described his feelings when driving with soldiers in a jeep and being handed a carbine in case of ambush:
"With the gun came the hope that someone would fire at us from the clumps of trees lining the road, so I could fire back. Usually doubtful that I could shoot another person, at that moment I was emotionally prepared to do so."
But gradually Mr. Lake became skeptical that the Vietnam War could be won and more and more insecure about what prolonging the war was doing to the Vietnamese people. In the same article he wrote of encountering the bodies of North Vienamese soldiers who had been ripped apart by .50-caliber machine-gun fire. Focusing on the corpse of one young soldier, Mr. Lake wrote: "His thin, scholarly face seemed terribly out of place in the bloody mud of that ditch. He seemed about my age."
The article stood out from the bloodless descriptions typical of former foreign-service officers, especially since the Lakes wrote about how the war and Mr. Lake's "loyalty to the Department of State in the face of inhuman working hours and inhuman policies" had strained their marriage.
 
Top Kissinger Aide
 During the early years of the Nixon Administration, Mr. Lake was a special assistant to Mr. Kissinger, who he believed would end the war quickly. Considered a favorite of Mr. Kissinger, Mr. Lake was one of the aides who accompanied him to secret peace talks in Paris with North Vietnamese leaders.
But in 1970, Mr. Lake, along with two other security council staff members resigned in protest over the invasion of Cambodia. They went to work for Senator Edmund S. Muskie, a likely Democratic challenger to President Nixon in the 1972 election. Two weeks after he resigned, Mr. Kissinger authorized the tapping of Mr. Lake's home telephone.
Mr. Lake later sued Mr. Kissinger over the wiretapping. The suit was settled in 1989 with Mr. Kissinger writing a letter that was not quite an apology, but in which he admitted that the wiretap had been "unconstitutional."

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Anthony Lake on his farm in Worthington, Mass. Mr. Lake, who has taught international relations at Mount Holyoke College, was chosen by President-elect Bill Clinton to be National Security Adviser. (Jon Crispin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; NATIONAL SECURITY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (66%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (62%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; LAKE, W ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); LAKE, W ANTHONY (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (90%); JIMMY CARTER (75%); RICHARD NIXON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



67 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Bartender Training Rejected By Vermont's Liquor Board

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 1

 BODY:
A proposal that would have strengthened Vermont's training program for bartenders and others who may be held liable for drunken driving accidents has been rejected by the State Liquor Control Board on procedural grounds.
The board rejected the proposal on Nov. 10 on the advice of its counsel and the State Attorney General, said Norris Hoyt, the Commissioner of Liquor Control. Since Vermont already has a mandatory training program enacted by the Legislature in 1987, only the Legislature can amend it, Mr. Hoyt said. 
 The board's decision came as a blow to the parents of a college student who was killed by a drunken driver in 1985. The couple, Adam and Ann Clymer, had petitioned the liquor board to tighten the training regulations after their daughter's death.
The Clymers won a $250,000 settlement last May from the owners of two Burlington restaurants where the driver had been drinking before hitting their daughter, Jane emily, as she was walking her bicycle. The driver, Theron Webster, served 30 months in jail.
 
More Instruction Sought
 The Clymers had petitioned the liquor board to extend an agreement made with the two restaurants to all establishments licensed to serve or sell alcohol in the state. Among other things, the agreement would have strengthened Vermont's mandatory server-training program by requiring a minimum of six hours of formal instruction in how to spot potentially drunk customers and gracefully refuse them more drinks. The training was to be paid for by business owners.
Mr. Clymer, the chief Congressional correspondent for The New York Times, said he was disappointed by the decision because the three-member board appeared open to the proposals at a public hearing last summer.
"We hope Vermont generally doesn't give up on this cause," he said Monday.
One legislator has expressed interest in bringing the proposal to the floor of the State Senate next year.
Supporters of the changes criticized the state's existing program, noting that bar owners are simply required to give employees literature on the subject supplied by the State Department of Liquor Control. They also say bar owners may not be the best teachers because they have an economic stake in selling alcohol.
"As long as you have the owners doing the training, you're not going to get a very good program," said James F. Mosher, executive director of the Marin Institute, a organization in California that conducts research on alcohol and drugs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERMONT UNITED STATES (98%); VERMONT, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DRUNKEN AND RECKLESS DRIVING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; LIQUOR; BARTENDERS ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (95%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (92%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



68 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Concessions on Arms Pact Made by U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 2

 BODY:
As President Bush arrived today in Moscow to sign a sweeping nuclear arms treaty with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, senior Administration officials said the United States, with Mr. Yeltsin's weakened domestic position in mind, had made significant concessions.
The officials said the Administration had tried to meet Russian concerns about the military and economic impact of the accord because Mr. Yeltsin may face a difficult fight to get the agreement ratified by the conservative Russian legislature, which recently forced him to abandon his choice for Prime Minister. 
 The officials said they were conscious of Mr. Yeltsin's need to defend the treaty as balanced. "One-sided treaties don't survive," one official said. Another said, "Unequal treaties don't get ratified."
 
'New Partnership'
 As the days of his Presidency dwindled down, Mr. Bush turned today from a moving celebration of the new year with United States troops helping to feed Somalis to the signing of what he called tonight "the most significant arms-control treaty ever."
In an exchange of toasts at a Kremlin state banquet in the 15th-century Hall of Facets, named for the angles of its white stone facings, Mr. Bush praised Mr. Yeltsin for his courage and dedication "to a new United States-Russian partnership," adding that President-elect Bill Clinton would be "a 100 percent partner."
Mr. Yeltsin said he looked forward to the day when "Russia's might as a great power is determined not by the quantity of its missiles, but by the living standards of its citizens and the development of culture, education and national traditions."
He then toasted the President and Barbara Bush with vodka and thanked them and all Americans for their support "in this extremely difficult period." Mr. Bush took a sip of his vodka, then chugged it down in the approved Russian style.
 
Terms of the Treaty
 The treaty, by banning all heavy, land-based, multiple-warhead nuclear missiles, is intended to eliminate both sides' confidence of achieving a successful first strike on the other. This should lessen the risk of sudden nuclear war.
The Americans are generally considered to have gained something of an advantage, since they retain a large number of their accurate, submarine-based, multiple-warhead missiles, the backbone of the American force, while the Russians must give up their prized land-based SS-18's.
That imbalance is the essence of complaints from the more conservative Russians, which make ratification by the Russian legislature something less than a given. Greeting Mr. Bush today at Moscow airport was a small group of protesters from the right-wing Nationalist Party with placards supporting Iraq and damning the arms treaty. One placard read: "Start II is Bush's final knot in the noose." The acronym Start has been used for each of the two Strategic Arms Reduction Treaties.
But in background briefings today, senior Administration officials involved in the negotiations said the United States had made significant concessions to help Mr. Yeltsin defend the treaty against criticism that it undermines Russia's national interests.
One official, speaking off the record, said Washington was not sure when Mr. Yeltsin planned to seek ratification. A constitutional referendum scheduled April 11, if it takes place, will alter Russia's system of government and may set up a new unicameral parliament. That is Mr. Yeltsin's next big political hurdle, and the official suggested that Mr. Yeltsin still had to decide whether he wanted to try to get the treaty ratified beforehand.
"We had all these feelings in mind when we sat down to negotiate," the official said. "I don't see it as a one-sided deal."
To answer Russian concerns about cost, Washington agreed in the closing negotiations to allow the Russians to convert 90 of the 308 SS-18 silos to house single-warhead missiles based on the currently mobile SS-25. These silos will be filled with 5 meters of concrete and fitted with a steel collar so that SS-18's, which are to be destroyed, could not be reinserted. The other SS-18 silos would be destroyed.
 
Down to One Warhead
 The United States also agreed that specific numbers of smaller, multiple-warhead, land-based missiles could be stripped to a single warhead if they were kept in their original silos.
While this also allows the United States to strip the older Minuteman III missiles and make the planned Midgetman a single-warhead missile, the Midgetman is unlikely ever to be built. Russia will be able to save many of its newest, smaller missiles and will not have to develop a new design and a new silo to put it in.
Asked if Moscow could quickly re-equip these missiles if a more aggressive Government took power, United States officials said that on-site inspections and spy satellites would be able to detect such changes, and that the United States "can redress any imbalance that might exist."
The United States intends the treaty to make it very difficult for any Russian Government to restore its first-strike potential quickly or in secrecy, which is why Washington insisted on destruction of SS-18 rockets and canisters. This was a major change from the first Start treaty, which did not call for the destruction of the missiles.
 
A Peek at the Bombers
 In the new treaty, Washington also agreed to answer long-standing Russian concerns about the United States bomber force.
In earlier treaties, nuclear weapons on bombers counted less than warheads on the more dangerous land-based missiles. Now, all warheads are treated as equal and each side will count actual nuclear weaponry installed on each bomber, and allow verification.
One senior official said that the B-52G carries 12 nuclear warheads, the B-52H carries 20, the B-1 carries 16 and the B-2 Stealth bomber carries 16.
In a concession stressed by United States officials, the Russians will have a single chance to inspect the new B-2 to count its nuclear weapons, though key parts of the plane will be shrouded. The Americans had always resisted any inspection of the Stealth.
 
The Other Republics
 The United States officials were sharp in their comments about Ukraine, which has delayed ratifying the Start I and nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaties; the treaties would make Ukraine a non-nuclear state within seven years. President Leonid Kravchuk has promised that Ukraine will ratify both, but the parliament is balking, asking for further United States aid and security guarantees.
The second Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty cannot come into effect until Ukraine ratifies the first, which it undertook to do last May, along with the other states that inherited Soviet weapons, Kazakhstan and Belarus. Belarus has not yet ratified the first pact, but it is expected to.
Ukraine needs "to get on with it," a senior United States official said. "The world at large, and not just the United States, looks to these countries to take these steps they've committed to."
On Sunday morning, when Mr. Bush and Mr. Yeltsin are to meet for talks before signing the treaty and holding a joint news conference, some discussion is also expected about the former Yugoslavia. The Russians have close ties to their fellow Slavs, the Serbs, and Mr. Yeltsin has also been criticized by Russian nationalists for betraying their "brethren."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush arrived in Moscow yesterday to sign a sweeping nuclear arms treaty with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia. The two men shared a drink during a state dinner at the Kremlin. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAQ (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



69 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Town Builds a Prison and Stores Its Hopes There

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: APPLETON, Minn., Dec. 31

 BODY:
If the drug dealers and sex offenders ever arrive, many in this quiet farm town plan to celebrate.
"We've been waiting a long time for something good to happen around here," said Dianne Johnson, president of the local Chamber of Commerce and the editor of the weekly newspaper. 
 Two years ago Appleton, a job-hungry town of 1,552 residents on the snow-swept prairies of western Minnesota, broke ground for a municipally owned prison and what most here prayed was the beginning of an economic turnaround.
The town issued $28.5 million in bonds to build its "state of the art," medium-security prison in a soybean field. Then it went looking for overcrowded state prison systems willing to rent Appleton's cells and thereby create new jobs and business for local residents and merchants.
 
Vacancy Sign Is Out
 "The world has written us off," Mrs. Johnson said. "It's up to us and us alone. Nobody is going to help bail us out."
It seemed like a sure thing, with state-run prisons across the country bursting and Federal courts ordering them to do something to ease overcrowding. The phrase "If you build it, they will come," danced through Appleton like a summer breeze. It still does, even as the digital clock on the Farmers and Merchants State Bank says it is 4 degrees below zero.
But for-profit prisons have a checkered record in their 10-year history, a record marked with both hope and despair, as Appleton is learning. One prisons expert called them a fad, "like the hula hoop."
And so it is that months after the Appleton prison was scheduled to lock up its first convict, its cells remain empty.
 
Inmates or Bust
 Private and for-profit prisons are generally less costly to run than public prisons because they have nonunion staff. But rocked by recession, no state or county government, including Minnesota, has yet agreed to spend the money to send inmates to Appleton's prison, the Prairie Correctional Facility.
Minnesota officials say that the state's prisons are overcrowded but that the state is converting hospital space into prison use and has no need for the Appleton site. Some people here grumble that the state is waiting for Appleton to fail so it can take over its prison.
The 472-bed prison here, which already has staff in place, needs at least 200 inmates to open, and officials are extremely anxious for it to do so. Otherwise, the Appleton Prison Corporation, created by the town to run the project, faces the prospect of laying off the prison staff of 85 on Jan. 31 and wounding the faith and confidence built up since the project began.
Bondholders were recently notified that a principal payment of $85,000 due in February would not be paid and that an interest payment of $1.4 million might also be missed. The prison's largest bondholder, I.D.S. Financial Services Inc. of Minneapolis, has asked the corporation to research selling or leasing it to the State of Minnesota.
 
Town on Tenterhooks
 Town officials say a contract for inmates will be signed any day now, and they even talk of expanding the prison to 1,000 beds. But prison employees cannot go anywhere here without being peppered with questions about when the inmates are going to arrive.
When the prison received its state operating license last November, people bought the employees drinks and slapped their backs. Now a few voices are saying, "I told you so."
"The anticipation is driving everyone crazy," said a prison official, David C. Harris. "But once the inmates get here, we'll have to beat people off with sticks because they'll all be out here wanting to see them."
The prison is a gamble but one that many here said had to be taken. Appleton is fading fast. There are few new families and even fewer jobs. The town high school is closed, and much of downtown is abandoned. Even one of the town's two funeral parlors has died.
In these parts, the farmers grow mostly corn, soybeans and sugar beets. But people say the area's largest export is its young. Those left are desperate to stop the losses.
So Appleton embraced the new prison. Except for its 10 miles of razor wire twisting and looping around its 70 acres, the prison looks like a community college, with buildings the color of dirty snow. When it is operating fully, it should employ at least 160 people. And once that happens, people here figure, money will start flowing through town like a parade on the Fourth of July.
Some of that has already come true. The town finally renovated its tiny airport. A new Super 8 motel came to Appleton in 1991 because of the prison, and people for the first time in years are fixing up their houses again.
When Doug Moe, the town's new police chief, arrived in May 1991, construction on the prison had recently begun and the "town was just so full of energy."
But the delay in getting inmates is eroding the confidence. "You've kind of seen that go down and down," he said.
 
Quest for Survival
 The man behind the Appleton prison is the city coordinator, Robert Thompson, who has lost weight and many nights of sleep worrying about the lack of convicted felons in his town. Mr. Thompson's New Year's resolution is to quit smoking as soon as an inmate contract is signed.
Puffing on a cigarette the other day, Mr. Thompson said Appleton had long searched for other development projects. Like other small towns, it chased smokestack industries, offering them free lights, tax breaks, cheap labor. But a factory would come only to pick up and leave a couple of years later to another town that had even more tax breaks to dangle.
After trying to lure up to 100 different businesses to town in the last few years, Mr. Thompson started reading about privately managed prisons starting up across the country, primarily in Southern and Western states.
He took his idea for a for-profit prison to the Chamber of Commerce and to the City Council, which gave the go-ahead. Revenue bonds were issued to 900 investors. Once the bonds are paid off, in 30 years or less if all goes well, Appleton will have complete control of the prison and its profits.
"That's not a dream," Mr. Thompson said. "That's just being visionary."
 
Quelling the Doubts
 A seven-member board appointed by the City Council oversees the prison, and a private prison company from Kansas City acts as consultant and searches the country for inmates.
Early on, there was some concern among Appleton residents about prison escapes, or about inmates' choosing to stay in Appleton upon their release. But those fears were eased when prison officials said that inmates would be transferred back to the state of origin three to six months before release.
Moreover, the prison has the latest in security: motion detectors, guard towers within the cell blocks, listening devices in every cell and videocameras all over. The only part of Appleton most inmates will see is the cemetery and the Swift County Fairgrounds across the road.
There are also some lingering doubts about the rightness, both morally and fiscally, of relying on a prison for economic development. Dale Lien, a 34-year-old farmer and the program director for the area's public television station, said that his first reaction to the prison proposal was, "Are we that desperate?"
 
Simply Refusing to Die
 "But after you have time to think it over it's not such a bad thing," he said. "It's not a smokestack industry. It's a renewable resource."
It is the natural resources, the lakes, the geese, the friendly faces, that make people who live here and in other towns like it want to stay and those who have left want to return.
It also makes them willing to take deep cuts in pay. The starting salary for the nonunion guards is $14,000, compared with about $23,000 for state guards.
Sue Baker, the prison's program director, said there was no place better than a small town to raise children. Born in Appleton, she lived in Minneapolis for years then returned, only to be laid off from the Appleton schools because of declining enrollment.
She said she was proud of Appleton and its latest effort to survive so the next generation could have what she had.
"We refuse to just sit down and die," she said. "We love this town too much for that."
Then she sat back in the empty prison and waited for the criminals to come to town.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Prairie Correctional Facility in Appleton, Minn., is a municipally owned prison built with the intention of saving the town's faltering economy. But the 472-bed prison remains empty as the recession has so far denied state and county governments the money to send inmates. "The anticipation is driving everyone crazy," said David C. Harris, a prison official, who walked in the maximum-security area.; Prairie Correctional Facility is a "state of the art," medium-security prison that replaced a soybean field. (Photographs by Steve Woit for The New York Times)
 
Map of Minnesota highlighting Appleton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBID (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRAIRIE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY (APPLETON, WIS) MERCHANTS STATE BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRAIRIE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY (APPLETON, WIS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;APPLETON (MINN) UNITED STATES (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS PRISONS (94%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (75%); BONDS (75%); COUNTIES (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); MERCHANT BANKING (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



70 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Cash Theft Shows Risks of Armored Car Business

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
They are routinely entrusted with the ultimate in valuables, prize cargoes more coveted than jewels or furs, antiquities, truffles or narcotics. But the largely unregulated courier services that collect and deliver billions of dollars of other people's money in the New York region and around the nation every day are dismayingly vulnerable to theft, particularly inside jobs, law-enforcement officials and industry experts say.
In the wake of last Sunday's suspiciously smooth robbery of $8.2 million from the Brooklyn depot of Hudson Armored Car and Courier Service -- the 31st time in the last two years that an armored car company or vehicle was hit in or around the city -- Federal investigators and company officials described an industry fraught with problems.
 
Lower Costs, Lessower Security
 There are no Federal or local regulations in the New York region on who may transport money or how, and many in the industry have long opposed such controls. Security guards require state licenses in New York, and New York City applicants for licenses to carry handguns for work are screened by the police. But otherwise, experts say, the money-courier business is free of outside supervision or regulation. 
 While a dozen or so top companies, led by Brink's and Wells Fargo, field fleets of armored behemoths and try to weed out employees with criminal records, other companies transport cash in ordinary minivans or private cars and allow convicted felons, many earning little more than the minimum wage of $4.25 an hour, to stand watch over colossal fortunes. Still other cash-movers, known in the business as "bagmen," use no vehicles of their own at all but transport money by messengers taking the subway.
"It is quite risky," said Don K. Clark, assistant special agent in charge of the F.B.I.'s criminal division in New York City, who is supervising the Hudson investigation. But he, like others, said the operative factor was cost.
"It's just logic," Mr. Clark said. "A van with no modifications is less expensive." But even the largest or best-run companies, Mr. Clark said, are not immune to theft, particularly inside jobs. In fact, the 10-year-old Hudson company is one of the area's bigger armored car services.
The Hudson robbery Dec. 27 had many of the earmarks of an inside job, James M. Fox, assistant director in charge of the F.B.I.'s New York office, said last week. Investigators voiced puzzlement at how a surveillance camera came to be disabled, how the robbers entered, and how the money vault came to be left open.
The sole guard on duty, whose name was not released, was said to have told investigators that he was surprised in his office shortly before midnight by an intruder who put a gun to the back of his head and bound his wrists and ankles. The guard has maintained that he did not get any glimpse of the intruder's face or clothes. Five or six robbers were then said to have entered and absconded with the money in 120-pound sacks of newly minted $100 bills, leaving another $30 million behind. They also ignored about $300,000 in far less traceable collected cash receipts.
 
Quality of Guards at Issue
 "This stuff is happening all over the country every week," said Ira A. Lipman, chairman and president of Guardsmark Inc., a large security-consulting company, and a vocal critic of industry practices. "You can't give a person a minimum wage, a badge and a gun and say, 'Do this job.' It's a menace to the public."
Because of the immense amounts of money they carry -- one New York armored car company alone transports up to $500 million a day -- the companies have long been close-mouthed about their business. But several executives agreed last week to interviews.
They described an industry crowded with new entrants struggling to attract clients by offering money-courier service at rock-bottom prices that established companies then feel pressured to meet at the expense of a higher-quality work force.
Yet to their frustration, these owners and others said, security is often a low priority, so the price-cutters can set the economic agenda. Some couriers charge by the trip or amount of money carried, while others set fixed monthly or annual fees.
"In the corporate world, security is always the first thing to go when budgets are cut, and the last thing to bring on when revenues spread," said Stephen Davis, a former New York City police captain and department spokesman who is now director of investigations for Fairfax Group Ltd., a leading security-consulting firm. But he warned, "You get what you pay for: when you're dealing with a guy at $4.50 an hour, loyalty is hard to control."
As long is a courier is insured to protect the client against losses due to theft, clients may be tempted to go with the lowest bidder. But given the lack of regulation, experts say, some less reputable couriers may not even carry insurance coverage.
 
Scores of Companies
 Since courier guards frequently gain access to clients' confidential operations, dishonesty by these employees may carry wider risks apart from any financial loss, some industry officials say. Conversely, the better -- and higher-priced -- companies are branching out far beyond mere pickups and dropoffs of cash to offer money-counting and auditing services, in some cases taking over these functions from the banks.
"You can do things if you want to do them," said Mr. Lipman of Guardsmark, who blamed courier services for not making a better case to their clients for the need to hire better workers at higher rates. He cited his own company's rise, despite premium fees, to a more than $100-million-a-year operation.
The industry, which traces its origins to a Chicago school bus armored with steel plate some 70 years ago, now has about 150 armored car services nationwide, with perhaps 40 operating in the New York area, officials say. Brink's and Wells Fargo lead the field, joined in the New York area by Loomis, Federal Armored Express, Revere, Coin Depot, Vets International and Hudson, among the large companies.
Some smaller companies have also carved out niches, among them the Manhattan-based Epic Security Corporation, founded by a criminologist, Mark J. Lerner, who limits his service to a modest $250,000 a run. His clients include government agencies like the Internal Revenue Service and the New York City Board of Education.
Security consultants frequently voice amazement at the unfettered operations of guard services, including the courier industry. "In New York State somebody wanting a barber's license is better checked out than someone wanting a guard's license," Mr. Lipman said. Although passage this year of a long-stalled bill increased the state's supervision over security employees, it was barely a start, Mr. Lipman said.
 
Call for More Oversight
 The problem will only grow more acute, he predicted, noting that there were already two-and-a-half times as many security guards in the country as police officers and that the ratio will soon reach three to one. His office keeps a file of news reports on security guards around the country charged with violent crime.
Mr. Clark of the F.B.I. said he too found the lack of regulation hard to explain. "If you look at the banking system, the F.D.I.C. cut down on bank robberies," he said, referring to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which sets standards for bank security. "I'm not sitting here to advocate government control of everything," Mr. Clark said, "but if we had more control we could cut down on armored car robberies."
He said that while other F.B.I. jurisdictions had one or two armored car holdups a year, his office recorded 12 last year and 19 in 1991. Nearly half, he said, were believed to be inside jobs by a company's own employees or confederates working with them.
Some industry leaders acknowledge a problem. "Statistically, 80 percent of these losses are inside jobs; you can count on it," said Kip Koehler, founder and chief operating officer of the Coin Depot Corporation, whose 150 trucks service some 250 customers with 4,000 stops a day in the New York area.
 
A Muddy Role
 "Most of us," he said, "try their best with all the resources at their command to screen people, but we're inhibited in our ability to do a decent background check." He blamed privacy statutes and other restrictions limiting an employer's ability to administer polygraph examinations and personality tests to prospective workers.
"People in the security business think we're in the trucking business, and people in the trucking business think we're in the security business," lamented James L. Dunbar, founder, chairman and chief operating officer of Federal Armored Express of Baltimore, which is among the five largest armored car companies doing business in New York City.
Although one of the industry leaders, the 35-year-old company still contends with a 25 percent annual staff turnover and was compelled this year to pay a nearly 50 percent increase in insurance rates, in part to make up losses of less proficient competitors.
If someone else is held up, Mr. Dunbar said, "I don't say, 'Great, that's my competitor.' " Instead, he said, because all the losses are ultimately underwritten by Lloyd's of London, he ends up helping to foot the bill in the form of higher insurance rates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bags of coins being unloaded at an armored car company in Brooklyn. Despite the large sums involved, there are no Federal or local regulations in the New York area on who may transport money or how. (Brian Palmer for The New York Times) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON ARMORED CAR AND COURIER SERVICE WELLS FARGO & CO (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON ARMORED CAR AND COURIER SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; ARMORED CAR SERVICES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (91%); ROBBERY (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); ARMORED CAR SERVICES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FELONIES (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CITIES (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



71 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: PALESTINIANS EXIT LEBANON IN DROVES

BYLINE: By IHSAN A. HIJAZI, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Jan. 2

 BODY:
As many as two-thirds of Palestinians living in camps in Lebanon have left the country, Palestine Liberation Organization officials say, in a move that could affect P.L.O. negotiating strength and the nation's delicate balance of religious communities.
"As many as 100,000 Palestinians left refugee camps in Lebanon" since 1991, one official, Salah Salah, the P.L.O.'s political officer, said recently at Ain El Hilwe, a refugee camp 25 miles south of the capital on the outskirts of Sidon that is the largest of 12 in Lebanon. P.L.O. officials say the exodus is a response to worsening economic and security conditions in the camps, as well as Government restrictions on jobs for non-Lebanese. 
 Mr. Salah said the number of 100,000 came from statistics compiled by the P.L.O. and international agencies. Registration figures released in December by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees, which assists them, showed a total of 321,000 Palestinians in Lebanon, with 144,400 living in the camps.
Lebanese Government statistics say that 400,000 Palestinians live in Lebanon, many of them unregistered, as a result of the flight from Palestine after the state of Israel was created there. Most have refused resettlement for fear of losing a right of return to their country of origin. Government officials said they could not confirm Mr. Salah's statements until they completed a census of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon.
 
Political Force Weakened
 Such a Palestinian exodus from Lebanon would weaken not only the P.L.O.'s position as sole representative of the Palestinians but also the political force that is inherent from their concentrated presence in the region. The right of return for Palestinian refugees is asserted by the Palestinian delegation at the Middle East peace negotiations, whose eighth round ended on Dec. 17 in Washington without a breakthrough. Israel has consistently refused to discuss the subject.
Some Lebanese, particularly Christians, fear that large numbers of Palestinians, who are predominantly Muslim, could upset the delicate religious balance in a country of 3.4 million people. Lebanese Christians feel that the resettlement of these Arabs in this country would further dilute the Christian presence in the Government, because it is based on a fine equilibrium of power sharing between Muslims and Christians. Parliament and Cabinet seats are distributed equally between the two communities even though Muslims represent an estimated 75 percent of the population.
For Palestinians living outside of the camps, the Government said an estimated 15,000 had emigrated this year, many to the United States, Canada and Australia.
 
'82 Exodus Scattered 12,000
 Another Palestinian exodus from this nation took place after the 1982 Israeli invasion of Lebanon, when hundreds of families followed guerrillas to other countries. As many as 12,000 P.L.O. fighters were forced to leave Lebanon then and were relocated in Iraq, Jordan, the Sudan, Yemen, Libya, Tunisia and Algeria.
Among those getting ready to leave this time is Amneh Abdel Kader al Daher, a 54-year-old widow who lives in the Shatila camp in Beirut. She says she is getting her passport ready to travel to Toronto to join her family. Her two daughters and son, all married with children, have been settled there for the last year.
Khalil al Farr, a 27-year-old electrician and resident of Ain el-Hilweh, said he was waiting for a visa to go to Sydney, Australia, to join a cousin who owns an electrical-appliance shop.
"The Lebanese do not like the Palestinians and do not want them here," Mr. Farr said. "If ever there is peace in the Middle East I will return, but not to Lebanon, only to Palestine."
 
Deliberate Scheme Charged
 Mr. Salah, who is also the top official in Lebanon of the hard-line Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, said the Palestinians had gone to Canada, Germany, Sweden and Denmark, which have liberal laws for accepting political refugees. He asserted that there was a deliberate scheme to induce Palestinians to emigrate.
The Palestinians faced problems after the Lebanese Government stalled on promises to provide them with employment and other social services. The United Nations refugee agency says as much as 40 percent of the Palestinian work force in Lebanon is unemployed. P.L.O. officials blamed strict Government restrictions that require Palestinians to obtain work permits from the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs.
Moreover, the authorities here have prevented hundreds of Palestinians working abroad from returning to Lebanon by refusing to renew their travel papers. Under Government regulations, any Palestinian who acquires residency abroad automatically loses his or her permit to live in Lebanon.
Officials of the Lebanese Government said they did not interfere in the travel or emigration of Palestinians, any more than they interfere in travel plans of Lebanese citizens.
Mr. Salah asserted that Western Governments in general and the United States in particular were making it easy for Palestinian refugees to go abroad "so as to deprive them of their right to return to their homeland, Palestine." He criticized the P.L.O. for "its failure to provide the refugee with all needs of steadfastness to make them stay and fight for the right of return."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); LEBANON (95%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CANADA (79%); JORDAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS RELIEF & WORKS AGENCY FOR PALESTINE REFUGEES IN THE NEAR EAST (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS RELIEF & WORKS AGENCY FOR PALESTINE REFUGEES IN THE NEAR EAST (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); LEBANON (95%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CANADA (79%); JORDAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (89%); STATISTICS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CENSUS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



72 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Some County Officials Prepare for an Earful

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: KALAMAZOO, Mich., Jan. 2

 BODY:
Last year, some Kalamazoo County commissioners got so nervous over Fred Ruden's verbal attacks on the county's mental health system that they hired a security guard to keep an eye on him at board meetings.
This year the commissioners are going to have to deal more closely with Mr. Ruden, a former mental patient who is also a lawyer and an unemployed bill collector. 
 Mr. Ruden, 37, won a seat on the commission in November, defeating a 14-year incumbent, Terry Lander.
"I think it helped that people were beginning to be very skeptical of their government," Mr. Ruden said Tuesday. "I wasn't afraid to attack it head on and risk everything."
He now says he is going to try to tone down his oratory, but he is not promising anything. "Politics is dirty," he said. "When people really upset me, I can't guarantee I'll keep my emotions in check."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KALAMAZOO COUNTY (MICH) UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LOCAL GOVERNMENT COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); 

PERSON: RUDEN, FRED

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



73 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Congress Is Hoping to Enter a New Era

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
The 103d Congress convenes Tuesday, with Democrats hoping to prove that inaction in Washington can end now that they have a Democratic President to work with.
With solid majorities in the House and the Senate and promises from leaders and important committee chairmen that President-elect Bill Clinton's agenda is their agenda, the Democrats also know that if they fail to pass a hefty measure of legislation, they will have no plausible excuses. 
 The Republicans, meanwhile, will enjoy the luxury of opposing when they want to and compromising or even supporting some Democratic initiatives when they think it serves their interest. Their role may be both simpler and more important without the responsibility of supporting a Republican Administration that some of them found too rigidly conservative and others considered too accommodating.
 
Undoing Bush's Vetoes
 The first efforts to prove that things have changed may come this month. House committees will be ready to act right away on some of the same bills that died because of President Bush's vetoes, especially a measure to require employers to offer workers unpaid leave for family and medical emergencies and another that obliges states to permit voters to register when they apply for drivers' licenses, welfare or other social services.
The Senate is less committed to a sprinter's start on legislation, but it hopes to finish informal confirmation hearings on Mr. Clinton's most important Cabinet choices in time to confirm them on Inauguration Day, Jan. 20, or the day after. The first hearing will be Wednesday, when Ronald H. Brown, chairman of the Democratic National Committee goes before the Commerce Committee to begin his confirmation as Commerce Secretary.
Party ratios have not changed much. The Senate remains at 57 Democrats and 43 Republicans. The House went from 268 Democrats, 166 Republicans and 1 independent to 258 Democrats, 176 Republicans and 1 independent.
But the new Democrats seem more likely to support their leaders on major party issues than some of those they replaced, so there may be little real shift. The Republicans are about as conservative as they were in the last Congress; they had little room to move to the right.
 
Changes in Background
 However it votes, the new Congress will at least look different. It will have six female Senators, up from two, and 48 female Representatives, up from 29. In the House, there will be 38 blacks, up from 25. At 9 percent of the House, blacks will approach the 12 percent of the nation's population they account for. The number of Hispanic House members has increased even more sharply, to 17 from 10.
The House will have 110 new members, more than a fourth of its membership and the biggest freshman class since 1949. The new members are not especially young, and many have experience in state legislatures or other forms of government, blunting the image of change that many sought to cultivate in their campaigns. One difference between new and older lawmakers stands out; fewer than a fifth of the freshmen have military experience, while almost half of the returning representatives do.
But if there are sharp changes in the ranks of junior members, with 11 new Senators joining the 110 new Representatives, there are no changes at all in the top ranks of the leadership of either chamber.
In the Senate that probably promotes what passes for efficiency in that body, because Senators George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, and Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, know each other's moves. They understand that getting anything done in a body whose rules celebrate minorities, even minorities of one, requires accommodation.
In the House, leadership familiarity has bred, if not contempt, at least a certain tedious disdain. The Democrats think the Republicans under Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the minority leader, have caved in to their noisy, negative right and cannot keep a bargain.
The Republicans think the Democrats under Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader, bully them, deny them a decent share of staff and influence, and run the institution ineptly, both in terms of legislative schedules and of administering entities like the House bank and the House post office. The Republicans are especially frustrated that voter retribution for the scandal involving overdrafts at the House bank fell on both parties, not just on the Democrats.
There will be many shifts in power at the committee level. The House will have eight new committee chairmen, and the Senate will have five.
 
Contrasting Agendas
 The most important Senate change is almost certainly the expected succession of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York to the chairmanship of the Senate Finance Committee after the current chairman, Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, becomes Treasury Secretary. Mr. Moynihan will bring with him a set of urban concerns, like welfare, that differ from those of his predecessor.
In the House, Representative William H. Natcher of Kentucky will assume the chairmanship of the Appropriations Committee succeeding Representative Jamie L. Whitten of Mississippi, who is 82 and in poor health. Mr. Natcher was the committee's acting chairman last year. And Representative Ronald V. Dellums of California, a dedicated critic of military spending, is all but certain to succeed Representative Les Aspin of Wisconsin as chairman of the Armed Services Committee when Mr. Aspin is confirmed as Defense Secretary.
A different sort of change could have even more effect. Lawyers for House employees questioned about unusual stamp purchases in the post office scandal say they believe that Jay Stephens, the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, is hurrying to persuade a grand jury here to indict Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
 
Indictments Weigh In
 An indictment would matter not only to Mr. Rostenkowski and Mr. Stephens, but also to Mr. Clinton. House Democrats require any member under indictment to relinquish any chairmanship temporarily, and the new Administration could sorely miss Mr. Rostenkowski's skill in assembling majorities on tax, trade and health-care legislation. (The Republicans have no such rule and are keeping Representative Joseph M. McDade of Pennsylvania in his position as ranking minority member of the Appropriations Committee, despite indictments last year charging him with conspiracy, racketeering and bribery.)
There is no way of telling how the new members may affect the way the committees do their business. But in the Senate leaders are pressing to get one of the four new Democratic women to serve on the Judiciary Committee, whose all-male makeup was cited in their campaigns, especially because of the panel's treatment of Prof. Anita F. Hill during the hearings on the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court.
Senate leaders are also hoping to persuade a woman to take on the thankless role of joining the Ethics Committee, which has to decide soon how it will deal with sexual harassment charges against Senator Bob Packwoood, Republican of Oregon.
 
Winning Back the Public
 The Democrats' fundamental analysis is that the public will put aside the scorn stirred by the House bank scandal and the questioning of Anita Hill if it can see the Congress passing laws that address the country's real problems.
They anxiously await Mr. Clinton's proposals on the economy and compete with each other in sight-unseen allegiance to his fiscal policies. They promise to do their best on health care, but in a chorus warned Mr. Clinton not to expect to pass health-care legislation quickly. "I told Bill Clinton," Mr. Rostenkowski said recently, " 'You haven't any idea of how many chits you have to play. You're going to have to work your buns off to get your health bill.' " .
But a lot less has been heard from Capitol Hill about lawmakers' wanting to pass new campaign-spending laws, another of Mr. Clinton's priorities. Last year, Democrats passed a bill to impose limits on spending and on contributions from political action committees, but they felt safe in doing so because they were sure Mr. Bush would veto them, as he did. A campaign-finance bill that might actually become law could be much harder to sell.
 
Top Priority: Confirmations
 The first week will be largely devoted to atmospherics. Democrats will make no effort to deny Mr. Packwood or Paul D. Coverdell, a Georgia Republican, their seats. Mr. Coverdell's election over Senator Wyche Fowler Jr. is being challenged in court, and some Oregon voters are urging that Mr. Packwood not be seated because of the sexual harassment issue. One reason for the Democratic reticence is that they want a civil atmosphere for the informal confirmation hearings. Actual nomination papers will not be sent to the Senate until Mr. Clinton has been sworn in, but if no problems have developed in the committee hearings, confirmation votes usually come quickly.
The House may be in for more of its usual wrangling. Democrats are pondering modifications of a rules change they proposed last month that would give the five Democratic delegates from the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa and the Virgin Islands voting power when the House considers amendments to bills.
That proposal has enraged Republicans, and the Democrats are wondering whether to back down a bit and whether to permit a separate vote on this issue, instead of including it with all other rules questions. The trouble with a separate vote, from their perspective, is that they might lose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY H BROWN LTD (66%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (66%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); FAMILY LEAVE (52%); DRIVERS LICENSES (51%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



74 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins to Propose 15 More Beacon Centers

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
As part of his State of the City Message, Mayor David N. Dinkins will propose financing 15 more Beacon community centers that will offer a mix of social services ranging from recreation and job training in New York City public schools after school hours.
The Mayor's proposal would bring the number of Beacon community social-service centers housed in the public schools to 36, guaranteeing at least one for each of the city's 32 community school districts, city officials said yesterday. 
 The expansion of the Beacon program, at a cost of $7.5 million, is one of the first initiatives that city officials have let trickle out about Mr. Dinkins's annual State of the City Message tomorrow.
 
Keeping Schools Open
 The Beacon program increased the hours that public schools are open by 300 percent in some of the city's most troubled neighborhoods last year, officials said. Last year, more than 30,000 children and adults were served by the centers, officials said.
Public School 15 in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, where the principal, Patrick F. Daly, was slain last month, was one of the original sites to be designated a Beacon center when the program was established a year and a half ago.
The Beacon centers, supervised by the City Department of Youth Services, are managed by community-based organizations that work with local school boards, school principals and advisory boards that include parents, teachers, religious leaders and youths.
 
Community Centers
 When school is not in session, the centers provide services like tutoring, health education, exercise classes and parental skills at night and on weekends. They are also intended as centers of community revitalization, serving as cornerstones of stability and opportunity in deteriorating neighborhoods.
Several Beacon sites have become centers for community celebrations, playing host to weekly Family Nights, holiday parties for children and Thanksgiving dinners prepared by local restaurants and served by youths to their parents.
The program so far has received $11.5 million.
The Mayor originally proposed 10 Beacon centers in his Safe Streets, Safe City plan, all of which are currently operating. In last year's State of the City Message, the Mayor proposed doubling the number of the Beacon centers, of which eight will open in February and three in April.
Financing for 15 additional Beacon schools will be included in the Mayor's budget for fiscal-year 1994. The new centers would all be open by this August.
While the current Beacon centers are situated in poor neighborhoods buffeted by crime, drugs and AIDS, some of the new centers are to be situated in more stable, middle-class neighborhoods, said the Commissioner of Youth Services, Richard Murphy.
"This is addressing the issue that there are thousands of working parents out there who have no place for their children to go when they are out of school," the Commissioner said.
City and school officials have supported the financing in the past, officials said yesterday.
"You've heard of Nimby, this is Pimby, please in my backyard," Mr. Murphy said. "The problem I have is picking the schools. Everybody wants this program. This program brings a level of support that makes it easier for schools to concentrate on the business of teaching. It's like making a school into a settlement house."
Beacon schools are currently in the Bushwick, East New York and Red Hook sections of Brooklyn; the Highbridge/Melrose and Hunts Point sections of the Bronx; the Far Rockaway and South Jamaica sections of Queens; the Washington Heights and Central Harlem sections of Manhattan, and in the North Shore section on Staten Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: YSII (NASDAQ) (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: YOUTH SERVICES INTERNATIONAL INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PARENTING (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); PARENTS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); THANKSGIVING (62%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, LYNDA; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



75 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL NOTES;
Dinkins May Have Regrets, but Not on Crown Hts.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins, a man who rarely admits fault, reflected last week on his performance over the last year and rendered this judgment: he was right the first time.
In his annual year-end interview with reporters, Mr. Dinkins did not give an inch to his critics among Orthodox Jews who have repeatedly attacked him for his handling of the racial violence in Crown Heights, Brooklyn in August 1991. 
 "I know what I did and what I said and I am satisfied with my behavior," Mr. Dinkins said.
The critics, many of them from the Lubavitch Hasidim, have suggested that the police responded too slowly to the violence and that Mr. Dinkins did not intercede quickly enough. They have also said he should have condemned a jury that acquitted a young black man, Lemrick Nelson Jr., in the racially motivated killing of a Jewish student, Yankel Rosenbaum, during the turmoil, just as he condemned the jury that acquitted four Los Angeles police officers in the beating of Rodney G. King.
If Mr. Dinkins had any second thoughts about his decisions, he did not acknowledge them in public. Indeed, he suggested that his critics were rewriting history. The Mayor argued that from the time of the 1991 disturbances until the Nelson verdict, he was praised even by his political foes for keeping the peace.
"Then of course came the Nelson verdict and in the minds of some we had to go back to square one," he said. "People in a sense began to revise and re-question that which had gone on in the first three days of the riot."
Mr. Dinkins also steadfastly repeated his argument that the King beating differed from the stabbing death of Mr. Rosenbaum, because in the King case an amateur cameraman caught the beating on videotape.
"I am not satisfied that so many people in the Lubavitcher community felt that there was no distinction between the Nelson verdict and the Rodney King verdict," he said. "To me it is as clear as day and night. I still think there is a vast difference."
The Mayor dismissed the notion that his handling of the Crown Heights episodes would haunt his re-election campaign.
"Whether or not it -- quote -- haunts me in the campaign is a function of what you media do," he said. "I don't see it as a continuing issue unless you raise it as such."
 
New Albany Budget Experts
 As any state official will attest, negotiating a budget isn't much fun when the job consists entirely of cutting. That has been the case in Albany for the last three years and will be the case again in 1993, when the Governor and the Legislature will have to fill a budget gap that some analysts now believe will exceed $4 billion.
The task will only be made more difficult by the continued flight of the Legislature's most experienced budget experts from their jobs. Last week, Carl P. Carlucci, who has served for six years as the chief budget negotiator for the Democratic majority in the Assembly, announced that he was leaving his position as Secretary of the Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. Carlucci has accepted a job as vice president for finance and business at the State University of New York at Albany. A former administrator at both SUNY-Stony Brook and the City University of New York, Mr. Carlucci was also the Assembly's leading expert on redistricting.
His counterpart with the Republican majority in the State Senate, Eugene K. Tyksinski, also has left the Capitol. With Gov. Mario M. Cuomo scheduled to present his budget proposal to the Legislature on Jan. 19, replacements have yet to be announced by either Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin or the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino.
Senate aides say that Mr. Marino is looking both inside and outside his current staff. Assembly officials say a leading contender for Mr. Carlucci's job is his deputy, Janet Penksa.
 
Anti-Tax Democrats Gain

Call it revenge of the naysayers. In the Connecticut General Assembly, conservative Democrats who went against the grain of their own party in 1991 in opposing the creation of a state income tax are now increasingly among the leaders.
The new House Speaker-elect, Thomas D. Ritter, a Democrat from Hartford, has appointed conservative Democrats to significant posts throughout the new regime. The new tenor of the chamber was also expressed when the party -- which controls both the House and Senate -- chose a fiercely anti-income-tax Democrat, Thomas S. Luby of Meriden, as their majority leader.
Although few legislators these days speak seriously of repealing the tax, as Mr. Luby and others tried to do in 1991 and 1992, the new tone is unmistakable. In the House, liberal pro-tax firebrands like Representative Jonathan Pelto have been banished to minor posts, while the former House speaker, Richard J. Balducci, who left the House to run for the Senate, has similarly been given a low-totem job by Senate leaders.
And this week, a Senate Democrat who opposed the tax, James H. Maloney of Danbury, who has already been named co-chairman of the tax-writing committee, the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee, was given the additional post of assistant majority leader in the Senate.
"He has emerged as a leading voice for mainstream 'New Democratic' fiscal, economic development and social policies," said Senator John B. Larson, the president pro tempore, in announcing Mr. Maloney's appointment. Mr. Larson also voted a resounding no on the income tax.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; CROWN HEIGHTS (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VIOLENCE; RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); JEWS VERDICTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); BUDGETS (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ACQUITTAL (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HATE CRIME (77%); RELIGION (77%); HOMICIDE (73%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



76 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Late Checks Provide Aid To Neediest

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
When Christmas decorations begin to engulf New York City and radio stations start playing a marathon of seasonal selections, many people draw up lists of holiday chores: buy presents, mail cards, plan a special meal, pray for snow, send a donation to charity.
Sometimes that final item is overlooked amid the eat-until-you-burst parties and visits from old friends and shopping-mall expeditions and annual trips to distant relatives' homes. Late last month, though, a number of contributors remembered for the first time to send a check to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 "I have meant to do this every year, but most of the time the pressures of Christmas put it out of my mind," Elizabeth J. R. Goodspeed of Fairfield, Conn., wrote in a letter to the fund that she enclosed with her $300 check. "This year I feel the need is so great that I couldn't let it go -- and have added some for having forgotten so often."
Naomi Talish of Manhattan, who sent $50 to the fund, also wrote that she was finally making good on a promise to herself.
"Like many New Yorkers, I have been meaning to donate for several years," she said. "The recent death of my grandfather Max Goldfrank, a man who instilled in my family a strong sense of duty to others, has prompted me to send you a donation in his name."
"Thank you," she added, "for giving me a perfect opportunity to honor him, although I know he would be disappointed in me for waiting so long to contribute to the fund."
Susan Schultheiss of Hamden, Conn., sent $20 with a note that explained: "I don't know why I didn't do this earlier. But I guess it's never too late." And Hilary Lieberman of Manhattan gave $10. "Last year, I put off writing this check -- and then it was too late to do so," she said. "Although it's not much, I hope it makes someone's holidays a tiny bit brighter."
Since the early years of this century, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has come to the aid of tens of thousands of people. The fund is now conducting its 81st appeal at a time when social-service organizations across New York City must meet growing responsibilities because of the recession.
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to seven charities. This year's campaign ends on Feb. 28.
In a letter to the fund that she included with her $15 check, Pauline Sasson of Manhattan said that she was proud that she was helping the Neediest Cases for the first time. "Somehow, I always forgot to do this," she said. "Other things intervened, but this cause is most important and wonderful."
Judith Rosenbaum of Manhattan, who gave $200, expressed similar sentiments.
"I missed last year's drive," she said. "Sorry. I'm glad you all were there, though. I know you made the difference between surviving and going under for many people. Maybe things will get a little easier for the world -- and the city -- this year. We can always hope!"
 
Previously recorded . . . $2,481,056.02
Recorded yesterday . . . $39,000.00
 
Total . . . $2,520,056.02

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



77 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Auguring Well: Trouble on Deck;
A Season Called On Account of Greed?

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
Baseball has just staggered through such a gloomy season that one can imagine a future without booming home runs and dashing slides and warm summer nights at the ball park. A 1993 doomsday scenario for baseball goes something like this:
The owners force their labor negotiator, Richard Ravitch, to threaten a lockout to limit free agency. Since the commissionership was knee-capped, Ravitch is seen as a hired gun rather than an ombudsman. There is no spring training, which puts baseball out of sight. 
 Opening day in April comes and goes with fans watching the Final Four and Michael Jordan, as well as doing home repairs or reading hard-cover books again.
In mid-May, the owners and players get desperate and arrive at a compromise they could have reached in January. Baseball opens its doors but the fans stay away. CBS and ESPN, in the last year of their $1.5-billion national contract, announce they will not make a bid for 1994. Meanwhile, Congress is questioning baseball's cushy anti-trust exemption.
With attendance and television ratings down, a few local stations delay payment on their contracts with individual clubs. The Pittsburgh Pirates, struggling on the field and at the gate after letting star players go in economy moves, default on their payroll. Players demand their money, like a run on the banks during the Great Depression.
One day the Pirates refuse to work, and the club hires semiprofessionals, but union sympathizers throw up picket lines at all stadiums. The game shuts down. Television stations announce that baseball has broken its agreement and ask for givebacks. There is no 1993 World Series, no midnight games, no nothing. The owners blame the players. The players blame the owners. Americans get more sleep. Children practice their jump shots.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JORDAN AS (71%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY THREE; FORECASTS BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); LOCKOUTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); STRIKES (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (52%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE MICHAEL JORDAN (57%); MICHAEL JORDAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



78 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Russian Economic Change Will Take Time;
Moscow's Pizza Hut

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Help Russia but Hold the Pizza" (Op-Ed, Nov. 23), Edward L. Keenan writes that people in the former Soviet Union do not need pizza parlors or automatic-teller machines so much as they need basic life-support systems. 
 During my family's stay in Moscow in July and August 1991, we lived around the corner from Pizza Hut on Tverskaya. Growing despondent at the extremely uneven supplies of fresh food, we relinquished our vow to experience the visit unsullied by fast-food vendors.
Forsaking the milelong lines to McDonald's (across from Pushkin's statue), we rounded the corner of our street to glance hesitantly but hungrily through the windows of Pizza Hut.
The takeaway menu, jauntily printed only in English, bids us to choose from the following and enjoy a refreshing drink with our takeaway meal. The prices marked next to the "Supreme" are a simple 18. The small print at the bottom informs us that the prices on the menu are in United States dollars, but that payment is also willingly accepted in pounds, marks and Finnish marks, as well as a variety of credit cards.
Apparently, the fledgling capitalists believed there were people desperate enough to fork over the equivalent of some $29 for pizza, should they wish to pay in pounds. No change given, I'm sure.
While this heady information left us reeling, we lined up with the rest of the former and future citizens, and waited at the outside window hatch, where one could pay in rubles, a definite bargain. Forty-five minutes later, still qualifying as lightning fast by certain standards, we placed our order, paying four rubles a slice, the equivalent of 15 cents.
The thrill of beating the system was increased by the front-line seats we were treated to a few days later at the attempted coup and the ever-with-us knowledge that we were now somehow part of history.
So, should you decide to forsake champagnsky and blinis for a delicious repast at Pizza Hut when next you are in Moscow, you may also need an automatic teller machine to pay for it.
 
JILL RUSSELL
New York, Dec. 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT PIZZA HUT INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PIZZA HUT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); TRENDS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MENU PRICES (73%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COUPS (50%); 

PERSON: RUSSELL, JILL

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



79 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Come Join the Fight

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was distressed to see myself listed in "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13) as a sponsor of a constitutional amendment that would deny United States citizenship to American-born children of undocumented parents. 
 I do not support any proposal of this sort. Last spring my name was added in error as a co-sponsor of the amendment. On learning this, I immediately requested that my name be removed.
Such an amendment would create a permanent underclass, born in this country but not entitled to the same rights as citizens.
Many civil rights leaders, you maintain, are torn between their conscience and their constituents, as African-Americans worry that immigrants are displacing them from jobs and political power. Our job as leaders is to bring attention to the real causes of unemployment and disenfranchisement among both groups and to insure that they are allies in the movement for economic and social justice.
 
CHARLES B. RANGEL
Member of Congress, 15th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Dec. 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (67%); 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



80 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Let's Not Laud Mr. Greenspan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Regarding "Greenspan's Gift to the Nation: No Bank Crisis" (Dec. 20), it is good to know that American taxpayers may not be called upon to deal with a banking crisis. But the idea that this is a gift from Alan Greenspan is hard to digest.
As the article stated, after interest rates fell, "the banks found a way to make nice money without making loans . . . by buying two-year to five-year government securities." 
 The loans the banks did not make would have financed consumer durable goods purchases and small businesses, leading to an earlier, noninflationary and more typical economic recovery. The "gift," then, is sponsored by the American people.
Perhaps it would have been more appropriate had this unannounced banking industry bailout been authorized by Congress after reviewing why Federal Reserve regulations and banking industry oversight did not prevent the excesses of the 1980's.
 
GERALD L. MURPHY
Oak Brook, Ill., Dec. 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTEREST RATES (55%); DURABLE GOODS (53%); 

PERSON: MURPHY, GERALD L ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



81 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
That Airline Pillow May Be Well Traveled

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
PAUL EKMAN, a researcher in the School of Medicine at the University of California in San Francisco, asked for a pillow on a recent United Airlines flight home from Boston. When the flight attendant handed him a pillow, he saw hair on it and complained, only to be told that the pillowcases were not changed after every flight. Nor, he was told in response to a question, were the headsets changed or cleaned after every flight.
Mr. Ekman wrote to United about its "unhealthy" practice and received a letter from a customer relations official saying that the pillows and headsets were "checked and cleaned on regularly scheduled intervals" but if the items were "damaged or visibly dirty," they were replaced. 
 Inquiries among domestic airlines show that United is in the majority in not replacing its pillows after each flight segment or at the end of the flight. Most airlines replace pillowcases nightly and while other policies about headsets seem to be stricter than United's, it is not impossible that you may use a headset that has already been used by someone else. Both time and economic pressures were cited as reasons.
By phone, United confirmed the information Mr. Ekman received, issuing a statement from Dr. Gary M. Kohn, medical director of the airline:
"We are unaware of any diseases or infections caused by contact with either headsets or headrest covers or pillows. We think it is highly unlikely that diseases could be communicated through these materials in a normal environment. Certainly in cases where there is any evidence whatsoever of contamination, we will replace the unit immediately."
Joseph P. Hopkins, the airline's spokesman, said that headrest covers, which are used only on international flights, were changed after every flight in all three classes. He said that pillows were changed whenever they appeared to need it, but that cleaners replaced them all on a cycle with a maximum length of two days.
Dr. Mary E. Wilson, chief of infectious diseases at the Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass., author of "A World Guide to Infections" (Oxford University Press), believes that some micro-organisms are spread on shared pillows but that the risk is low of contracting a serious infection from a pillow that appears clean.
"If someone had an open sore on the neck or head," Dr. Wilson said, "it could contaminate something it came in contact with. But not many disease-producing bacteria can survive for long periods on a dry, unsoiled fabric. Some common skin bacteria like staphylococci or streptococci may remain on fabrics, however they do not easily pass through unbroken skin." Dr. Wilson added that passengers need not be concerned about HIV infections from any saliva on a pillowcase.
The headset is a problem of another dimension in Dr. Wilson's view. She took note of research by Dr. Itzhak Brook, "Changes in the Microbial Flora of Airline Headset Devices After Their Use," published in Laryngoscope in January 1992. Dr. Brook, who is a professor of pediatrics at the Georgetown School of Medicine and a senior investigator at the Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute in Bethesda, Md., was following up his 1985 research showing that the wearer's own bacteria are markedly increased by 60 minutes of wearing earphones that cover the whole ear.
 
Increase in Bacteria
 Dr. Brook's new work focused on the bacteria found on the headset after use for 60 minutes. In this test, he used sterile headsets of the type most often found, ones with the smaller earphones, usually covered with gray plastic foam. The research showed a 100- to 700-fold increase in bacteria on the set, including staphylococci of three types and streptococci of two types. After this conclusion, Dr. Brook said, he does not feel comfortable wearing the headsets, and he said that people whose immune systems are compromised, including those undergoing chemotherapy, should be quite concerned.
Dr. Brook also wrote United Airlines about his results, and Dr. Kohn, in his reply, said that the airline would watch closely for any signs that infections were transmitted by the headphones.
Regardless of the airline, the best advice for those who may be concerned is to take your own inflatable neck pillow in your carry-on luggage; in any case, it is certainly more restful than the thin pad the airlines provide. The medical evidence indicates that the earphones may be more cause for anxiety. If you have a cut or any other ear problem, listen to your own tape player or view the movie as a silent.
Here are other airlines' responses about pillows and headsets.
Continental Airlines, according to Peggy Mahoney, a spokeswoman, replaces the whole pillow nightly on all the planes. "They are also replaced, as needed, during the day," Ms. Mahoney said. She said that the headsets were replaced after each use.
America West has a different approach. For $4 the passenger buys the headset, which is the light-wire type that can be used with personal tape recorders, according to Dik Shimizu, the spokesman. If customers leave headsets behind, Mr. Shimizu said, the airline sends them to sheltered workshops where disabled workers replace the earpieces, then the headsets are used again. "Our pillow policy," Mr. Shimizu said, "is to change every case every night. We also have 25 to 30 extras aboard each flight for use as needed." Mr. Shimizu spoke for many lines in saying that trying to change cases between each flight would cut down on efficiency and "profit margins that barely exist."
Southwest Airlines changes all pillowcases every night, according to Ginger Hardage, a spokeswoman. This airline does not have plug-in earphones, she said.
USAir collects, cleans and recycles its headsets after each use, according to Nancy Vaughan, a spokeswoman. Pillowcases are replaced each night.
The Trans World Airlines spokeswoman said that pillowcases were replaced at each "layover cleaning," which is generally at night, and that headsets were either dipped in a sanitizing solution or replaced after each use, depending on the model.
Northwest changes the ear part of the headset after each flight. The pillowcases are replaced at every overnight cleaning, according to Jim Faulkner.
American, according to Tim Smith, a spokesman, changes its disposable pillowcases every night; the cloth cases on international flights are changed after every flight, he said. The earphones used on transcontinental flights are also replaced after each flight; plastic ones are cleaned nightly or replaced nightly.
Delta, according to Neil A. Monroe, a spokesman, disinfects the headsets after they have been unsealed and repackages them. If the pillows have been taken from the overhead bins, he said, the covers are replaced.
Another reader, in a letter to this section, raised a second issue concerning health in the aircraft cabin. On landing in Australia in 1988, she said, the flight attendant sprayed the cabin interior and the passengers sat in the spray for a half an hour before debarking. There was no warning about this occurence, important to her because of her acute allergies.
The Australian tourist organization confirms that the spray was d-phenothrin, an insecticide. Chermerdene N. Jordan of the Australian Tourist Commission said that the spray is used in a concentration approved by the World Health Organization. The passenger was nonetheless made ill by it and had to cut her trip short. According to Ms. Jordan, the passenger sued but lost the case in United States courts.
Ms. Jordan says the cabins of all flights to Australia are still sprayed, a Health Department requirement to "keep at bay" insects that may carry human, animal or plant diseases. Qantas now does it through the ventilation system.
One sharp memory of a trip to Hawaii in 1975 was that the cabin was suddenly sprayed before we disembarked, an unpleasant experience. The Hawaii Department of Health dropped this in 1979, but if I were sensitive to pesticides, I would ask airlines and consulates of places I had never visited if there are governmental requirements that cabins are to be sprayed on arrival.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (63%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NYTRAVEL; BACTERIA; SANITATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; PILLOWS; HEADPHONES AIRLINES (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BACTERIA (89%); AIDS & HIV (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); WRITERS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (69%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY; BROOK, ITZHAK (DR) THOMAS J WILSON (52%); THOMAS J WILSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



82 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 5; Page 13; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Rediscovering Rio, With Your Eyes Open

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE; JAMES BROOKE is the chief of the Times's Rio de Janeiro bureau.

 BODY:
IN an odd turn of the wheel, Rio as an international tourist destination has gone back to where it was when I first arrived here in 1976 as a college student exploring Brazil's long coastline by bus. Today, as before, Rio is off the beaten track.
In the intervening years, mass tourism discovered the city. Americans and Europeans disembarked by the jumbo jet load. One result of this encounter between first-world wealth and third-world poverty was a spiraling rate of street crime. By the late 1980's, tourism had declined; according to Embratur, Brazil's national tourism authority, in 1990 only half of the 1.07 million foreign visitors to Brazil passed through the city, compared with two-thirds of two million foreign visitors in 1987. And in an Embratur survey of foreign tourists taken in 1990, about a third said crime was the main reason for the decline in tourism to Rio. 
 While many tourists went elsewhere, the city stayed behind. And Rio's charms endured -- white sand beaches, bronzed bodies in minimal bathing suits, gray granite mountains cloaked in emerald green rain forest, smoky nightclubs reverberating with lyrics sung in Brazil's melodious Portuguese, and corner bars offering a plethora of tropical fruit juices, freshly squeezed at 40 cents a glass.
The difference is that, once again, the foreign visitor feels more like a pioneer, an individualist whose reward is often the thrill of discovery. And Rio, instead of trying to be the world's party capital, has returned to its old, more comfortable, self -- a Brazilian city for Brazilians.
The changes in the city were brought home to me on a Sunday afternoon in late December, when I had my pocket picked for the first time in a total of eight years of living here. As I walked to Ipanema's Banana Cafe to meet two friends for lunch, about three blocks past the headquarters of Rio's new Tourist Police, a pair of pickpockets deftly relieved me of my lunch money.
Like many urban experiences these days, a visit to Rio is an experience to be approached with eyes wide open. Just as you would not leave valuables unattended on a towel in New York's Central Park in July, don't leave your camera and hotel key on a towel on Ipanema Beach in January. Take to Rio accessories you don't mind losing -- a cheap watch and a plastic box for a camera. Leave wallets, passports and jewelry in the hotel safe. Explore the city with enough cash for the day, a photocopy of your passport in your pocket, and, maybe, to blend in, a copy of a local newspaper under your arm.
With a wariness for street crime, the city can be highly enjoyable. Indeed, as I walked home after lunch the day my pocket was picked, I saw one scene after another of the Rio I love at its best. In a newly refurbished park, a jazz band was warming up for the Ipanema Jazz Festival. Along the beach, the oceanfront avenues of Ipanema and Leblon were closed to cars and had surrendered to Rio's rich human comedy: roller skaters, bicyclists, families pushing prams, retirees out for their Sunday constitutional, bleached blond surfers chatting with their girlfriends, young men improvising a form of volleyball with their feet, and mustachioed policemen walking their beach beats dressed in summer uniforms of T-shirts and shorts.
It is also cheap. To the delight of visiting Americans, Brazil is one corner of the world where the dollar is still king. Our lunch -- carpaccio, pizza, orange juice, espresso, assorted bottles of water and and tip -- came to $34 for three people. Saturday night, my dinner for two at Torre de Babel, an Ipanema restaurant with live music -- appetizer, chicken and orange juice -- came to $16.40 for two. One block off Copacabana beach, a comfortable hotel room for two can easily be found for $50 a night.
As a legacy of the boom years, Rio enjoys an excellent tourist infrastructure: luxury hotels along the beaches, restaurants with bilingual menus, friendly, English-speaking tour guides and the new multilingual tourist police. To revive tourism, city authorities have undertaken a program of safety precautions and beautification: increased beach patrols, spruced up oceanfront boulevards, fenced-in city parks, and an eight-lane highway to speed visitors from the airport to the beaches in the city's south.
Over the years, I've found favorite amusements in Rio that remain compelling. In a city notorious for its narcissism, a principal source of entertainment is people watching. (Cariocas -- or Rio residents -- are one of the world's few peoples who generally look better out of their clothes than in. During the day, a leisurely way to take in the human spectacle is to rent a bicycle and to pedal the length of the brand new waterfront bicycle lanes. The routes are: Copacabana to Leblon, around Lagoa, and the length of Sao Conrado and Barra beaches.
For dinner, the beautiful people tend to congregrate about the following restaurants in Ipanema and Leblon: Banana Cafe, for light fare; Gattopardo, a pizzeria; Guilhermina, serving international cuisine; Mostarda, specializing in dishes with mustard; Arlecchino, for nouvelle Italian, and Caribe, serving a Brazilian version of West Indian cooking. (Taxis are recommended for getting around at night.) For moderately priced Brazilian cuisine, try Casa da Feijoada in Botafogo.
Before dinner, check the show listings of Rio's two major newspapers, Globo and Jornal do Brasil. Music is one of Brazil's best known and most endearing exports. A hotel concierge can usually help you find Rio's homegrown jazz, bossa nova, samba, Brazilian rock and Afro-beat. The houses that get the best acts include: Canecao, Imperator, Jazzmania, the Rio Jazz Club, People, Circo Voador and Mistura Fina. For disco dancing, the golden youth of the Southern Zone (Zona Sul) flock to Resumo da Opera, next to Gattopardo pizzeria in Lagoa.
If you feel uncertain about wading solo into a Portuguese-speaking evening crowd, Brazil Nuts, a Connecticut travel company, offers samba, jazz, lambada and Big Band nights on the town.
Now that I have three small boys with "Rio de Janeiro" printed on their birth certificates, my late-night pub crawling has largely been replaced by wholesome daylight activities.
The standard outings listed in guidebooks are definitely worthwhile. Views from Sugar Loaf Mountain and from the Christ statue atop Corcovado Mountain are not only breathtaking, they also help the visitor and the resident alike assemble the jigsaw puzzle of tunnels, hills and beaches that is Rio. But , over the years spent in Rio, I have developed some lesser-known favorites. Two are add-ons; both are well policed. At the base of Sugar Loaf, a paved trail leads around the southern flank of the mountain, providing unexpected views of Copacabana and about one mile's worth of exercise. On weekends, the Paineiras road is closed to cars beyond the entrance to the Christ statue. For about five miles, pedestrians, joggers and bicyclists can climb through Tijuca National Park, stopping to refresh themselves in mountain showers that erupt from rock formations.
Closer to town, the newly refurbished Botanical Garden offers one square kilometer of greenery and tranquillity. Containing 6,200 species of tropical plants and trees, the gardens are ideal for quiet walks and talks.
At the end of the day, there is a fascinating spectacle to be found at the southern end of Sao Conrado beach. In a classic Rio mix of risk and romance, hang gliders take off from Candida Pedra Bonita peak, 2,000 feet above, and circle through the sunset to land at dusk on the south Atlantic sand.
 
 
 
CONCERNS, FOOD AND FUN
Cautions
 The State Department's Consular Information Sheet on Brazil warns that crime against foreigners in the city is greatest in the most popular beaches and neighborhoods of Copacabana and Leme; robberies are most common at dusk and in the evening. The department also says nightclubs and discotheques in those areas of Rio are often the site of incidents.
Rio Tourist Police, Afranio de Melo Franco Avenue, Leblon; telephone 511-5767.
A tip on Brazil's magically vanishing cruzeiro: with monthly inflation at 25 percent, the cruzeiros in your pocket shrink in value by almost 1 percent a day. Since the free-floating exchange rate paces inflation, exchange only enough dollars to cover expenses for a day or two at a time.
 
Restaurants
 Prices are for a meal for two people, without drinks.
Torre de Babel, Rua Visconde de Piraja, 128-A, Ipanema; 267-9136. $20.
Banana Cafe, 368 Rua Barao de Torre, Ipanema; 521-1460. $50.
Mostarda, 1838 Rua Prudente de Moraes, Ipanema; 259-2798 or 511-4094. $40.There is a new Mostarda branch in the Lagoa neighborhood at 980 Epiacio Pessoa.
Guilhermina, 48 Rua Rainha Guilhermina, Leblon; 294-2915. $30.
Arlecchino, 1387 Rua Prudente de Moraes, Ipanema; 259-7745. $50.
Casa da Feijoada, 10B Rua Prudente de Morais; 267-4994. $20.
 
Hotels
 Hotel Apa, 306 Rua Republica do Peru, Copacabana phone and fax (55 21) 256-3628. A double is about $50. Hotel Praia Ipanema, 706 Avenida Vieira Souto, Ipanema, (55 21) 239-9932, fax (55 21) 239 6889. A double room is $95 a night, breakfast included.
 
Outings
 Brazil Nuts, 1150 Post Road, Fairfield Conn. 06430, (800) 553-9959, fax (203) 259-3177, offers various day and nighttime excursions -- "Rio Like A Native" -- to places tourists generally don't see. An average outing, say dinner and a samba club, is about $40. These can also be booked through the office in Rio, 550 Rua Visconde de Piraja, Ipanema; 511-3636.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Claudio Courtinho Walk, around Sugar Loaf Mountain. In the city's botanical gardens. (Photographs by Andrew Posner for The New York Times)(pg. 13); Hang gliders end flights from Candida Bonita peak on the beach at Sao Conrado. (Andrew Posner for The New York Times)(pg. 17)
 
Map of Rio de Janeiro. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL); BRAZIL BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; NYTRAVEL TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TOURISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); BEACHES (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); RAIN FORESTS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (51%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



83 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 16; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: CAMERA;
New Applications For Still Photography

BYLINE: By John Durniak; John Durniak is a freelance writer, editor and consultant on photography.

 BODY:
ROBERT PLEDGE, president of Contact Press Images in New York, is looking for new directions for the picture agency he helped to found in 1976.
"I've begun spending more time in Paris," he said, "because of the tremendous shift of the news in the last few years. The news has switched from the west side of the Atlantic Ocean to the east side. 
 "For a long period, the major stories were coming out of America, but now with Tiananmen Square, the crash of the Berlin wall, the split-up of the U.S.S.R., Desert Storm, Yugoslavia's problems, Somalia and Arab-Israeli tension, the focus for photography is on Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia."
There is also more money to be made in the magazine business overseas. Europeans are still buying picture magazines like Stern and Paris Match and their counterparts in other countries. But in the United States, magazines are commissioning fewer photographs and relying on stock images.
"The magazine photography business as we have known it is in shambles," Mr. Pledge said. "Thank God for Time and Newsweek. Where would we be without them? They have replaced the old Life and Look."
Mr. Pledge used to view his business only in terms of photojournalism. But he now sees new opportunities for selling photographs to institutions for educational purposes.
"The economy looks promising and ready for technological and sociological changes," he said. "We are entering an era where the world is getting smaller, people are closer together, because of incredibly fast communication systems like TV.
"There are also more people than ever before -- two billion in the 1950's, when many photo agencies were starting up -- and there will be six billion by the end of the century. Population growth is also creating a whole new communications problem."
The French Government has already begun working on the dilemma, launching a new way of storing and using electronic still pictures. The new Grande Bibliotheque de France in Paris will have a collection of hundreds of thousands of still images when its first section opens in the fall of 1994. The image library will be catalogued so that it can be scanned electronically by researchers and others studying subjects like history and anthropology, and viewed at computer terminals. All sections of the library -- which will also store films, video and books -- are expected to be open by the spring of 1995.
There is hope that it might be possible to hook up libraries like the Grande Bibliotheque via modems to homes and to work stations in industry and schools, making visual information available to almost anyone, anywhere, almost instantly. The French Government plans to have a computer-based AIDS-prevention campaign -- still pictures with voice-over -- developed for young people and administered through the library.
Mr. Pledge said he believes that a still image can be more powerful than a moving image. "When everything is moving, it is harder to learn," he said. "There has to be a departure from normal motion, where time stands still, allowing a chance for reflection, analysis and interaction."
The screen should not be a substitute for a teacher, he continued, but a place where the educator can practice new methods of teaching.
"TV could become the savior of still photography," Mr. Pledge added. "It's an incredible venue for the still image. Still pictures can be placed on CD-ROM disks, opening the door to TV picture/book disks that can be published by the hundreds of thousands."
In Mr. Pledge's view, the switch from paper to electronics will offer a solution to the problem of shooting pictures for two weeks and having only one picture published on a quarter of a page. With the CD-ROM disks, there will be more room for images because of the opportunity to use audio narration instead of traditional printed text.
If Mr. Pledge is right, there's a new world -- and a more profitable one -- coming for both still photography and picture agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; MAGAZINES PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); MISC INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); AIDS & HIV (50%); 

PERSON: DURNIAK, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



84 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Taxes and Gambling Top Lawmakers' List

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
PICTURE the Connecticut General Assembly as a majestic cruise ship, ready to embark this week on a stately five-month legislative tour of informed debate and eloquent discourse. Now throw on the cold water and a truer picture emerges: a boatload of rookie lawmakers heading for a storm, with uncharted reefs on every side and a yawning budget deficit off the bow ready to swallow the unwary.
"It's going to be tough," said Representative Reginald L. Jones, a Republican from Darien. 
 The numbers tell part of the story: of 187 members in the combined House and Senate, 67 are new to their jobs, or about one in three -- the highest proportion of new faces since the middle of the 1970's. And while the Democrats remain in control in both chambers, their leaders are new and untested, at least in the House, having been named in just the last few weeks since the election.
And they will be tested.
The legislature's Office of Fiscal Analysis has projected a shortfall of $424 million for the fiscal year that begins on July 1 in a general fund budget of about $8 billion, assuming all state services were left intact and adjusted for inflation. Negotiating that gap, through cuts in spending -- and the likelihood of increased taxes for at least some residents -- will mean getting around a whirlpool of related issues that offer substantial challenge of their own, including the following.
* An overhaul of the income tax. Supporters, mostly Democrats, say the idea is to make the one-year-old tax fairer, since many upper-income residents now pay a smaller proportion of their income in taxes than middle-income families. But Republicans fear that the pressure of the budget could transform fairness into a major tax increase disguised as a technical revision.
* Gambling. This is the legislature's toughest issue, cutting across all lines, from aid to troubled cities like Bridgeport and Hartford, to the battered economy of southeastern Connecticut, where the Mashantucket Pequot Indian tribe's Foxwoods casino has become a major employer since it opened last year. Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. has vowed to veto any bill legalizing slot machines or casinos off the reservation lands, but the new majority leader in the Senate, William A. DiBella, a Democrat from Hartford, is a staunch supporter of casino gambling and a skilled practitioner of the art of hardball legislative politics.
* A cap on state spending. In November voters approved, by a 79 percent majority, a plan to write into the state Constitution a limit on how much the state budget could grow in any one year. Lawmakers will now have the task of translating the meaning of that mandate -- in particular which categories of spending are exempt from the cap and which are covered. Will it be a loose-fitting cap with little impact or a tight-fitting design with real restrictions?
Many of those who track the ebb and flow of state politics say the pressures of budget-related issues, and the sense that perhaps the state's economy could begin to recover from the recession this year, will create an environment of limits, making the 1993 session a time of making do.
The high proportion of new members, some legislators say, will also dampen initiatives while lawmakers gain confidence and knowledge of how things get done. Mr. Weicker, who will give his State of the State speech before the combined House and Senate on Wednesday at noon, has not tipped his hand at all about what he will propose.
 
No Exotic Initiatives
 "This is not going to be a session of innovative and exotic legislative initiatives," said John J. Carson, president of the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, a nonprofit research group that monitors state government. "They'll say, 'let's keep things intact, keep things moving along, don't ruffle feathers, and by the time we meet again, we'll have enough of an economic advance in hand to undertake some new initiatives.' "
But lawmakers could also be forced into making some major decisions on some issues. The broad agenda of recommendations about increasing the efficiency of state government, for instance, which emerged last year from a series of commissions and studies, is scheduled to begin gearing up in 1993, and some of those plans have plenty of potential for upheaval.
Under one proposal, a new super-agency, the Department of Social Services, would emerge as the existing Departments of Income Maintenance, Human Resources and Aging are combined under one commissioner. Another proposed merger would meld the Department of Health Services with the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Commission. In both cases, questions of political and bureaucratic turf promise to resound in deciding the new lines of authority, not to mention the picking out of who will still have jobs when the cutting is done.
 
New Sources of Power
 New dynamics and voting blocs also seem likely to emerge in considering those moves. Lawmakers from Bridgeport and Hartford, for example, the state's two largest cities, have risen to roles of greatly increased power and influence in this legislature. Mr. DiBella, the new Senate leader, is from Hartford, as is the new Speaker in the House of Representatives, Thomas D. Ritter, while the President pro tem of the Senate, John B. Larson, is from East Hartford. The delegation from Bridgeport, meanwhile, will have the leadership positions on at least 3 of the General Assembly's 23 standing committees.
"We're going to play a major role," said Representative Ernest E. Newton 2d, a three-term Democrat from Bridgeport who is the new House chairman of the Executive and Legislative Nominations Committee. Mr. Newton conceded that the city's new clout might not immediately translate into money for the troubled city, but it couldn't hurt. "Perception is power," he said.
Lawmakers from southeastern Connecticut, which is likely to face some of the greatest disruptions from the downturn in the United States military contracts over the next few years, have also banded together in a new voting block. The new caucus will likely be a major participant in debates about economic relief for displaced military-industry workers, and also on the subject of gambling, since the Foxwoods casino would likely be hurt by a major gambling expansion elsewhere in the state.
The new Representative from the town of Ledyard, home of the Foxwoods casino and many of its 3,000 employees, Mary K. McGrattan, said that she for one would not be "leaning toward legalizing gambling in Connecticut." Ms. McGrattan said she might support a bill allowing video slot machines where gambling was already permitted, in places like the jai alai frontons, and would like to pursue the notion of getting some tax revenue from the Mashantucket Pequots if and when slot machines were operating at their casino.
 
Municipal Backgrounds
 The leanings of other members of the new legislature are also being pondered. Many first-time lawmakers are former municipal leaders (Ms. McGrattan was the Mayor of Ledyard for eight years), and some legislative leaders said that members from such such backgrounds could create another new force on behalf of aid to local government.
And some lawmakers have small agendas of their own. For instance, Representative-elect Dominic A. Buonocore, a Republican from Branford, has already proposed a bill that would prohibit candidates for office in Connecticut from being listed on the ballot more than once. Scores of legislators, mostly Democrats, benefited in November from an endorsement by Mr. Wiecker's independent third party, A Connecticut Party, which controls the top ballot line.
Mr. Buonocore's bill would make that double listing impossible. Each candidate would instead be listed just once. "This act would create a ballot which is a lot less confusing than the one voters were faced with in November," he said.
But Mr. Buonocore would also seem to have a distinct personal interest in the matter. His opponent, Joseph Giordano, was listed twice, as a Democrat and a candidate of A Connecticut Party, and got a combined total of 5,335 votes on those two lines. Mr. Buonocore, listed just once, squeaked by with a margin of only 134 votes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; TAXATION; LEGISLATURES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME TAX GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CASINOS (89%); GAMING (88%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (85%); CRUISES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); VETO (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); POLITICS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); FAMILY (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (66%); TRENDS (65%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



85 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 4156 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Looks to Washington For Revival in '93

 BODY:
On Long Island, as elsewhere in the country, attention is focusing on Bill Clinton as the year begins. When Mr. Clinton takes office as President will he unleash an array of economic programs that will spur Long Island's economy or will whatever Federal help arrives serve just to complement the true engines of regional economic recovery? And, Mr. Clinton aside, is recovery in the cards for Long Island this year or do more hard months lie ahead?
A panel of three economists agreed that a recovery is on the way and may have already begun. And whatever money Washington injects into the regional economy, they said, will only make things better. 
 The panelists were Thomas Conoscenti, director of the graduate program in management at Polytechnic University in Farmingdale; Gary Huth, senior economist in the State Labor Department, and Rosemary Scanlon, chief economist of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. At the request of the Long Island Weekly, the economists met for a discussion at The New York Times bureau in Garden City. The roundtable was conducted by John Rather.
 
The Forecast
 Q. As we enter 1993 what kind of shape is our regional economy in? Is recovery on the way or will this be another grim year?
MS. SCANLON Will Long Island have recovery in 1993? I think yes. And it's essentially from the income overflow out of New York City which is being accumulated by Wall Street.
Combine that with pent-up demand for housing, and by 1993 I expect we'll see more construction in housing. I expect to see much more public construction, everything that has been in the planning stages.
Consumer confidence is up generally, in the sense that there is a sea change under way. And I think that most people have paid down the worst of their debt at this point. So I think we will see more retail spending. So right there are the ingredients for a recovery.
Probably local government will still be a drag, and so you may not have a lot of job growth, but that will not be the best measure of economic activity. It really will be income flows, wage flows.
The second point I would make is that this probably will happen without the usual engine of growth on Long Island. The engine of growth that I see is really in New York City. It's Wall Street. And coming up behind Wall Street in terms of recovery are business services in New York, the big elements of advertising and accounting and management consulting and law. And there is a spillover effect on Long Island. And I think that if we worry about an engine of growth, then the state to look at is Texas. Because Texas has had its recovery without a particular engine of growth, which would have been oil, and has managed to get some sort of recovery, a diversified one, with its banking system in shambles. Jobs probably don't pay as much as they used to during the heyday of oil. But nonetheless, you look at the Texas economy, and it is in recovery.
There is a readjustment process under way in Long Island's manufacturing economy, and I presume we will see more of that.
 
Clinton's Role
 Q. Will Bill Clinton help Long Island or will the focus be elsewhere?
MS. SCANLON The Clinton program will help Long Island. It's early, but if on top of everything else I have said they follow through with what they said they would do, there will be spending on public works. There will be more spending on the environment, which could be very targeted toward Long Island, for coastal waters, ground water, sludge, garbage, the whole thing. I think that will be very favorable.
We stand a chance of getting some antirecession types of investments out of the Clinton Administration, which should help our metropolitan area and Long Island in the process. There will be job training and retraining, which will help Long Island.
And above all I think we will probably see some new attitude toward reconversion strategy, though that is still a little bit nebulous. But I do think we are going to see something over the course of the next two years. And up until now we have seen very little discussion. So if there is a peace dividend and a reconversion strategy, we stand a chance of seeing something in the next two years, and we should hopefully start to see some of that favorably affect Long Island in terms of more research and development dollars to come, whether it's at Cold Spring Harbor, Brookhaven or Stony Brook.
Looking at the intermediate term and my outlook in the 1990's, I do think that there will be growth. It will be slower compared to everything Long Island has seen for three and a half decades. And it will be a different type of job growth, different in the sense that the measurements will be different. They may no longer only be these great units of more jobs, more housing, more miles of highway, and then they go this way with lanes.
What we will count as economic growth in the 1990's for a place like Long Island is very different. We look much more at income distribution, purchasing, reinvestment. We will pay more attention to income generally and types of investment, income as it is swung back through to the public sector, the so-called quality of life, the quality of the environment. We will have to change our measuring structure.
We will begin to look at 1987 as being an unattainable level of growth. We will have to go back to some other measurement in the index that will become a more sensible way of measuring what constitutes growth.
 
Employment Picture
 Q. Are we entering recovery, particularly in terms of employment?
MR. HUTH It looks at this point like we have bottomed out, although not in any dramatic way. I do expect to see some slow, gradual improvement in 1993. I agree with Rosemary, in that I don't see dramatic employment growth. Even before this recession started, we talked about how it was going to be slowing down in terms of employment numbers.
The high point for Long Island was actually 1985 in terms of really dramatic growth. I think it was something like 54,000 jobs gained in 1985. That's not only not going to happen. There is really no need for that to happen, because there is not the population growth to sustain that.
The labor force has shrunk considerably. The number of people who are searching for jobs is down because of the slow population growth and the aging of the population -- fewer young people coming in. So we will be able to lower the unemployment rate more easily. Obviously we need job growth. But it will not have to be as dramatic as it has been in the past.
What is important, while I am on that subject, is training, and not just training for dislocated workers, but training that advances skill levels. We have a dramatically changing workplace, in terms of the technology, forcing dramatic changes both in terms of how products are made and how companies operate. There is a whole different culture in terms of how companies operate.
Some of what seemed to be kind of esoteric discussions two or three years ago is really starting to play out in business. The fact that things are done on a group basis, for instance, means there is a lot more decision making on the job. The type of skills that people need on the job are changing as the structure of business becomes much less hierarchical.
 
Job Training
 Q. Do you expect Federal support for the kind of training you are speaking of?
MR. HUTH Clinton talks about this. It's probably one of his main points. Aside from additional money, though, I think how things are done is going to be just as important.
I think the alliances between business and schools are going to tighten up considerably. I think there will be relationships between community colleges and business. I see those school-business alliances as being very important in terms of preparing people for the work climate.
Q. What types of jobs will they be preparing for?
Mr. HUTH Well, the advantage of Long Island's small-business structure is that it is adaptable. I think general services will continue to be probably the area where there is the largest job growth. But there will be other industries. Some in electronics, some in medical instruments, some in the broad category of information-related industries, where you can lump together things like Computer Associates in terms of software; Symbol Technologies in terms of bar-code scanning, Cablevision, fax machines. That's just a very inclusive area. Anything related to computers is going to be important.
If you talk about what skills people are going to need to train for, computer skills continue to be important. Critical-thinking skills, your ability to make your own decision on the job, that is important. Again, any kind of communication skills, both writing and verbal communication skills, those are very strong points. Math and science, obviously.
I think you will see a lot more people looking for people with an engineering background who will be in their marketing department. They will not just want midlevel managers who don't know what kind of product their company is producing. They will want people who have technical abilities. So people who have dual skills like that, that's important.
I might just add in terms of what is important about the Clinton Administration that Rosemary touched on is not just the infrastructure stimulants, but the research and development funds. It's very important for Long Island how these funds get distributed. That's the big if. It's very important that Long Island be preparing itself to make sure that it gets its appropriate disbursement.
Some of it should go to our research institutes, Cold Spring Harbor, the State University at Stony Brook, and we have also this year the formation of the Long Island Research Institute, a perfect vehicle. The institute is probably a model for things happening around the country.
I would certainly like to see the Clinton Administration take a nice chunk of money and take a role in plant conversion to civilian products. That's a crucial area.
MR. CONOSCENTI I am looking at the transition that is occurring, and I see the Computer Associates and the Canons wanting to stay on Long Island and other companies that are going to be coming down the pike as the kinds of companies that are replacing the heavily tied-in defense-related manufacturers.
I think sometimes we may say, well, we should do this, we should do that. But sometimes I have to think in terms of what these people are doing in those industries. Take the navigation industry, and all of that heavy navigational equipment was designed for defense. They would have certain kinds of magnetic bars on the top of a battleship, a plane would fly over, and it would give a reading as to what ship it was without ever having a direct communication. Well, in the shipping industry that's not important. You have Loran, telephones. So maybe that technology is just really not applicable to these other industries.
At Polytech I keep seeing these engineers that are coming back to school to be retrained into the management field. They don't want to stay in engineering. The way to climb the executive ladder in an engineering firm is to become section head, and then you become manager. What happens is that when you get a good engineer you make him section head, and if he is still a good engineer you make him a manager.
Then when you get to that point you have a problem. You lost a good engineer and you have a lousy manager. But yet they want to move out of that particular area.
Q. Out and up?
MR. CONOSCENTI Out and up, right. If you have an engineer who has been in the system for 25 years, and you say well you are a great design engineer and now on you can design navigational equipment for the defense industry. Do something with that technology that you learned, that you understand and you know well. But he doesn't have a market to do it, and so he is an aerospace engineer, and there is this kind of a mind-set. Well that's all I am, I'm a snake charmer. Period. And I don't want to move out. And we saw that with Grumman in the early 1980's with the bus company. It totally fell apart.
 
Grumman's Future
 Q. Mr. Conoscenti, what will be the role of Grumman in Long Island's economy?
MR. CONOSCENTI Grumman's role in the Long Island economy has been a planned role, although Grumman may not state it publicly. I think that they have in other parts of the country maintained a policy of not participating more than 10 percent in the local economy's labor force. And I think that Grumman will ultimately move in that direction here.
But the residual to that will be that the people who will be left here will be the high-tech-oriented types of people who are really involved in what I call the high-tech service-sector economy. We are talking about what Gary just alluded to, the Computer Associates types of people, programmers, systems analysts and those types of people who have an ability to export their knowledge to some other part of the country.
In the 70's the whole idea of an export-based economy was that we would manufacture a product, like a paper plate, and we can go to Texas and sell it and bring the income in. And we have forgotten about the knowledge industry, which we can sell our knowledge to another part of the country. I think Computer Associates, in effect, is that kind of a company. It sells a diskette, and someone else is selling it somewhere else in the country or parts of the world.
The economy, from where I have been looking at it for a couple of years, is like the letter "u" in 1992. It sort of fell down and got to the bottom of that "u," and it's been a long bottom. Now it's starting to pull itself back up now. I think we are going to see the result of that in maybe the first or second quarter of 1993. We will see some growth in 1993.
If we are lucky, and we do have some change in Federal policy -- say, for example, that Mr. Gore and his proposals for targeting high-tech industries go forward -- Long Island may be a beneficiary of those proposals, whatever they ultimately may be.
MR. HUTH Certainly we have the profile for it.
MR. CONOSCENTI We have the profile for it, and we have a lot of companies that were defense oriented that were in the transition between defense and consumer products or intermediate-industry products beginning in the mid-1970's right through to the present day. So those industries are profiled for it and will add a little zip to the region's economic base.
One point we mentioned earlier were retail sales. An area of retail sales that seems to be developing is seen if we look at the school industry on Long Island, a $4 billion industry. That's a lot of money. But if you look at the people served in kindergarten through 12th grades this last September, you have seen significant increases in those grade levels, which is a very strong indication that housing turnover has begun, that empty nesters are selling out their homes, and if these K through 12, and even pre-K, are starting to get filled up, they are the people who go out and buy the sneakers and the shirts and the jeans and whatever else helps move retail sales.
 
Family Income
 Q. And people who buy those goods are not using disposable income. Aren't they using income that they have to have to clothe the family?
MR. CONOSCENTI Right. That's a driving force in the system. The graying population doesn't need to buy sneakers every six months, because, you know, your son or daughter's foot gets bigger.
MR. HUTH But the graying population is putting their money into investments. That's their contribution. They are no longer the purchaser.
MR. CONOSCENTI Anyway, the accumulated wealth at that level is not that significant that it's going to make a major dent or be an impetus to the region's economy. But I am looking at the school-age population as being that which is driving.
If we look at the total numbers, yes, they are declining. But a lot of that has to do with the fact that in the 1970's you had zero-growth population trends. So all of those kids have just about filtered out of the system. By 1996, 1997, you are going to see a significant reversal in total school age population, which is going to upgrade the economy back out to the end of the century.
 
Educating Students
 Q . And then many of them will go to college on Long Island?
MR. CONOSCENTI A lot of them will go to college on Long Island. But I think there is a notion in the region that we should keep our students here. I'm not in favor of that. I think if a student wants to go to Kansas to study, that's his prerogative. We wind up with an exchange of people, and I think that's part of the mix.
What I am saying is that I saw this "u" in the economy as coming down and turning around, and I see 1993 with some growth in employment, primarily in the service sector. And I see some activity in construction. The projects that are on line haven't been able to get through, haven't been able to get through the towns. Whether it's a Canon or whether it's an Olympus, those projects are coming due. They are going to be pushed through the towns, and I think the towns, the local government, is being pressured to start making some decisions.
The pine barrens suit, whether we agree with what happened in the appellate court, the mere fact that now the cumulative environmental-impact statement is not required is going to shift the banking industry. The banking industry had sort of redlined that whole area. There were no funds available. If you wanted to borrow money, a developer, to develop 500 acres, in the eight years it was going to take you to get through the planning process, nobody wanted to tie up his funds for eight years, even on paper.
MR. HUTH One thing that we have not directly identified is the growth of the immigrants in New York City and the potential of that, if past patterns continue, to move out to Long Island. And that's a potential positive area in terms of spurring residential construction and the housing market.
 
New Immigrants
 Q . Long Island has had a major surge of immigrants in the last three to five years. Some are working at the lowest level, landscaping and restaurants and so on. Will there be more?
Mr. HUTH It may take a little longer to percolate out, but in New York City, you look in certain areas of Queens, some of the immigrants are owning businesses. They are already getting themselves off the ground. And those people will eventually move to the suburbs.
Q. What missed opportunities or underuse do you observe in Long Island's economic picture?
MS. SCANLON There are a couple of opportunity areas where the Long Island economy is really underdeveloped. One is the whole area of exports. It doesn't matter whether it is exports of goods or of services. Long Island can play a much different role in reaching out.
The second area that seems to me that remains largely undeveloped on Long Island is its tourist business. Only 17 percent of the visitors in 1992 came from "other," meaning some place outside of the metropolitan area.
In the future Long Island could become a place where European visitors or Japanese visitors could come. So there is a whole area that is quite underdeveloped. The infrastructure, the hotel complexes, simply doesn't exist here as it exists other places.
MR. CONOSCENTI If you look at the correlation between Disney World, every time they built a new hotel the tourist industry declined. On Long Island, the way they define tourism is not like in Orlando. If you're from New York and go to Orlando or Miami, you are a tourist. But if you live in Nassau County and you go to Montauk, are you a tourist?
MS. SCANLON Well, they do have the category of visitor. But the point I am trying to make here is I think that it is a largely underdeveloped industry that reaches out to a larger market worldwide. They don't have beaches like Long Island's many places.
MR. CONOSCENTI But most of the beaches on Long Island, except for Fire Island and Jones Beach, are all private beaches, which has been a major problem for the tourist industry.
MS. SCANLON It's about to become public, and that was the point I was going to make.
The other point is a longer term. Once we get out of this recession, and it will end, then I don't think it will be long before the discussion on Long Island will go back to focusing on the cost of growth and what will be possible in terms of making the island livable. And a graying population with more money is the population that drives that discussion. The discussions of growth, the issues of water quality, of what to do with garbage and pollution in the bays and in the ocean.
MR. HUTH That could spur an environmental industry, also.
MS. SCANLON It spurs a whole new set of industries. And there are real issues to be solved as I understand it, ground water, for instance.
And if that recent storm was not the 100-year storm, but the second or third year in a row of major storms, then we will enter a very different public discussion about what must be done. Is it a flight or flood strategy?
 
Political Realities
 Q. Do you think the public officials we have on Long Island are up to considering these issues, these problems in the next five years?
MR. CONOSCENTI . At the town level the public officials are equipped to deal with those issues. The next generation of public officials will be. But in many towns and villages we still have the old-line politicians who worked their way up through the party.
I think on the county level there are people who are trying to change policy and have the wherewithal. Their time will come due in the next years or three years. In Nassau County, Mr. Gulotta, the County Executive, seems to be having a lot of problems. Whoever runs against him, should he win, would be a different type of a politician. I think we are going to see the next generation arrive in the mid-1990's with the kind of politicians that will develop and nurture good ideas.
MR. HUTH I think there has been some awakening among the local officials in terms of the depth of the problems and some of the things that need to be done. The economic-development things I mentioned earlier.
But I think that that process is nowhere near finished. I don't know whether the old guard is adapting rapidly enough or whether they will need to be replaced by kind of a new mind-set, and I wouldn't comment on the politicians per se. But I think that change has to be there.
People are now much more attuned to following these economic issues. They know more about the economy now, they follow what goes on.
 
Extending Bank Credit
 Q. Do you think bank regulations will be liberalized so there is greater lending?
MR. CONOSCENTI The banks got themselves into a bind nationally with a lot of development in real estate.
Q. Then the Government tightened the regulations. The question is are we coming out on the other side of that?
MS. SCANLON Banks did two things this year. One, they had to restore their profit rate. They went practically out of the banking business and they went into Treasury instruments. That's what they've done in 1992. Buying low short term, they are paying 2.5 percent on interest and just making money of the spread.
MR. HUTH Anything wrong with that? It's very profitable.
MS. SCANLON It's been very profitable. It also means we start 1993 in a whole new situation. If the banks don't loan for mortgages, there will be new intermediaries in the market. The mortgage market is a national market.
And the construction-loan market and the loan market will come from some place else. This is one business where water finds it level very quickly. If the small business wants money, it's going to get it some place.
MR. CONOSCENTI You are saying the profitability of the banks in 1993 will be significantly stronger, which will provide an impetus, capital, in the market place? And maybe some form of deregulation in the banking industry?
MS. SCANLON Why do you use the term deregulation? All you are doing is lifting this little bind, this little collar that has been on it. It's not a major problem.
But if the economy recovers, actually we are in an interesting situation in 1993 in this country. There will be more money in search of investment than immediate investment opportunities. Which should begin to lower the long-term rate of interest.
MR. CONOSCENTI Interest rates are already low.
MS. SCANLON It's the long term. That's the one that counts right now. Short-term interest rates are going to go up a little bit. But can you bring that long-term interest rate down from the Treasury bills from 7.4 percent? Can you get that down to 7 and 6.8? That's the one that's going to make a major difference in the housing market and in the investment market.

GRAPHIC: Photos: E2-C surveillance plane being assembled at Grumman in Calverton, top. The company may reduce its staff to 10 percent of the local labor force, an economist says. Right, construction on the L.I.E., a major public work on the Island (pg. 1); Discussing the state and future of the economy were Rosemary Scanlon of the Port Authority with Gary Huth, center, senior economist in the State Labor Department, and Thomas Conoscenti of Polytechnic University; Worker at Computer Associates in Hauappauge, an example, according to Mr. Conoscenti, of a company that is supplanting manufacturers closely related to military industries. (pg. 7) (Photographs by Lois Raimondo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (53%); 

PERSON: HUTH, GARY; SCANLON, ROSEMARY; CONOSCENTI, THOMAS BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



86 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 6; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Scouts Debating Potential Land Sale

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

 BODY:
TWENTY-FIVE years ago, William O. Field, an ardent environmentalist and director of exploration for American Geographic Magazine, found the perfect buyer for his 1,400 acres of wilderness in Putnam County.
Although state officials wanted the site to add to their adjacent parkland, Mr. Field chose the Boy Scouts of America and gave them a reduced price because the Scouts promised him that the land would remain forever wild. 
 Now Scout leaders in Westchester and Putnam Counties say their own organization has betrayed them, and Mr. Field agrees. More than 500 Scout leaders, supported by a coalition of environmental groups, are trying to persuade the Westchester-Putnam Boy Scout Council to rescind its decision to sell the property, known as the Clear Lake Reservation, to a developer who wants to build a golf course and convention center.
Opponents say they are concerned about potential damage to Clear Lake, which is said to have unusually pure water, and they say they are worried about the threat to the nearby Wiccopee Reservoir, the only source of water for Peekskill.
 
A $4.5 Million Offer
 The property's wetlands and steep slopes, they say, make it unsuitable for development in any case.
The Boy Scout Council has temporarily tabled its plan to sell the property in order to give the Open Space Institute, an Ossining-based land-preservation organization, time to study the proposal, but opponents say they fear the financially strapped Boy Scout Council will be unable to resist the offer of $4.5 million from International Design and Construction of Garrison, an offer three times higher than the property's appraised value.
The offer, contingent on receiving a three-year option, would give the developer time to assess the feasibility of building the golf course and convention center and time to invite investment from other developers. One company that has been asked to join the investment group is Tully Construction of Flushing, Queens, which is seeking approval to build a sludge plant three miles away.
Opponents argue that the Scouts not only should be honor bound to protect the open space but should also heed their legal obligation. "This is a clear violation of the previous owner's intent," said Martin Brech, chairman of the Putnam County Tree Advisory Commission and a member of the Clear Lake Coalition, the citizens group formed to challenge the development plan.
 
A Distrust of the State
 Mr. Field agreed. "This proposed sale is contrary both to my intent when I agreed to sell the land to the Boy Scouts in 1968 rather than to the State of New York, but also it is contrary to the intent of the Boy Scouts when they negotiated with me to buy Clear Lake," the ailing geologist wrote to the Boy Scout Council.
In his letter, Mr. Field claimed that the Scouts promised that the land "would remain forever wild," and he said the organization further agreed, "if it were ever necessary to sell the property, New York State would receive right of first refusal." That condition was written into the deed.
Last week, Peter H. McCallion, a principal in the development company and its lawyer, said the offer to purchase the property would be withdrawn, although he had not yet informed the scouting organization. "We just learned of this potential title problem," he said. "Apparently, the Boy Scouts don't have the right to sell the property until they offer it to the state." He added that the state has a year to respond to an offer by the Scouts.
Although Clear Lake Reservation is bordered on three sides by Fahnestock State Park, Mr. Field said he had feared that the state would not be able to prevent development of the property. He had disapproved of a public beach that the state permitted at the end of Canopus Lake in Fahnstock State Park.
Spokesmen for the Boy Scout Council in White Plains were on vacation last week and the national organization in Irving, Tex., said it was unfamiliar with the details of the plan, but local Boy Scout Council leaders have made their position clear in letters to the membership. Sale of the property would finally end years of worry about "the financial ability of the council to properly maintain and operate its camping programs," wrote P. Paul Nardone, Scouting Executive for the Westchester-Putnam Council. He added that the governing body had approved the sale of Clear Lake by a 2-to-1 margin.
 
Scout Principles at Issue
 The Boy Scout Council owns two other camps in addition to Clear Lake, including Siwanoy in Dutchess County and Camp Read in the Adirondacks. Three years ago, a special task force was appointed to evaluate which camp to sell in order to raise funds to maintain and improve the other two. Camp Siwanoy was offered for sale, but it attracted little interest from potential buyers and an outcry from local environmental groups. Last summer, the offer for the Clear Lake Property arrived.
"Economic times have changed over the years, and Scout councils simply cannot afford to do business as they have in the past," Mr. Nardone wrote local Scout units. "Selling a camp is never an easy decision for anyone to make," he added. "Clear Lake is a beautiful piece of property, but unfortunately as our world changes, we must keep pace."
Some things must never change, outraged Scout leaders replied, arguing that the proposed sale contradicts cherished scouting principles. They point to "Scouting for Boys," the scouting manifesto written by Lord Robert Baden-Powell, who founded the organization in England in 1908 and created the Scout oath.
"Camping is the joyous part of a Scout's life," Lord Baden-Powell wrote, adding, "Living out in God's open air, among the hills and the trees, and the birds and the beasts, and the sea and the rivers -- that is, living with nature, having your own little canvas home, doing your own cooking and explorations -- all this brings health and happiness such as you can never get among the bricks and smoke of the town."
 
'It Can't Be Replaced'
 Save Our Camps, the organization of Scoutmasters and leaders formed to prevent the sale of Clear Lake Reservation or any of the Boy Scout Council's other camping properties, said Clear Lake has particular significance.
"This is 1,400 acres of wilderness," said Jack Palmer, co-chairman of Save Our Camps. "It can't be replaced." No other site in the region allows campers to live so close to nature, Mr. Palmer said. "We are terribly upset our Council has decided to sell our camping property. We are dead set against selling any of our camps."
In November, a second organization, the Clear Lake Coalition, a 30-member group of environmentalists and neighborhood opponents, joined the fight and threatened to picket Boy Scout Council headquarters in White Plains unless scouting executives agreed to meet with the two coalitions.
 
Jeers and Shouts
 The meeting was held two weeks ago, but it accomplished little, said Bill Primavera of Yorktown, one of the participants. He added that the meeting ended in a chorus of jeers and shouts.
At its monthly meeting on Jan. 25, the Boy Scout Council will hear arguments from the two groups urging them to rescind their decision. A 90-day period for the Open Space Institute to complete its evaluation expires on Feb. 20.
"You can be sympathetic to the Boy Scouts," said Peter Borrelli, executive vice president of the Open Space Institute. "When you have got your back to the wall, you do things that are not entirely rational." He added that although the Scouts had been handed the opportunity to sell the property, "they stopped short when they realized the value of the camping at Clear Lake."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER-PUNTAM BOY SCOUT COUNCIL; INTERNATIONAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION CO BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (58%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (58%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (57%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (57%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (55%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER-PUNTAM BOY SCOUT COUNCIL; INTERNATIONAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION CO BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (58%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (58%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (57%); SCOUT ASSOCIATION (57%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (55%); OPEN SPACE INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUTNAM COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WILDERNESS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); GOLF (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (73%); WETLANDS (73%); 

PERSON: MELVIN, TESSA

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1993



87 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Westchester, the World's 'Golf Capital,' May Get a New Course

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

 BODY:
DESPITE its belt tightening on other issues, the County Board of Legislators has voted unanimously to authorize $515,000 in bonds for planning a new golf course next to the county-run Mohansic Golf Course in Yorktown Heights. The new course, which would become the county's sixth public course, is expected to cost $10 million and must be approved by voters in a referendum next November.
Andrew A. Albanese of Eastchester, the Board's majority leader, said the new course would be "a great thing for Westchester County" and vowed to campaign for it. "Our golf courses make money for the county," Mr. Albanese said, adding that Westchester "has always been known as the golf capital of the world." The game was introduced more than 100 years ago at St. Andrew's Golf Club in Hastings-on-Hudson. 
 The bond money will cover survey costs, environmental studies and reviews and architectural and engineering design work. The proposed course, which will include an 18-hole course, a 9-hole course, a driving range and a clubhouse, will be built on 400 acres that the county has owned for several decades. Barry Samuel, acting Commissioner of the County Department of Parks, Recreation and Conservation, said the land had been purchased with an eye to building an additional course some day.
 
Fastest-Growing Sport in County
 Mr. Samuel said a market analysis by the National Golf Foundation of Jupiter, Fla., had confirmed the need for a sixth course. Calling golf "the fastest-growing sport in the county," Mr. Samuel said 280,000 rounds were played on county courses last year, but that there was an "unmet demand" for thousands more rounds.
Herman Keith, the Democratic minority leader of the Board of Legislators, said he believed a new golf course was needed and that he did not view spending for recreation as "taking money away from the homeless or teen-age pregnancy programs" that serve the poor in his Yonkers district. He added, however, that he hoped the county would be as aggressive in pursuing solutions to homelessness and other problems associated with poverty as it was in acquiring parklands and creating recreational spaces. "You can't live on golf courses," he said.
There are 26 private golf courses in Westchester, most of which charge high membership fees. Fees for playing on county courses range from $12 to $40 a game, depending on the day of the week and whether the player holds a recreation pass. Adele Dowling, public information officer for the Parks Department, said there had been some discussion of allowing a private developer to operate a new course on the land, but this idea had been rejected. "We thought it would be a viable investment for Westchester County," she said.
The new Mohansic course would be the first built by the county in 62 years. Other county-run courses are Dunwoodie and Sprain Lake in Yonkers, Maple Moor in White Plains and Saxon Woods in Scarsdale. Saxon Woods was the last one built, in 1931. Dunwoodie was acquired by the county in 1957.
 
Social vs. Recreational Needs
 Local golfers, who have waited on long lines to play on county courses, have applauded the Board's plan. Augie DeSisto, an avid player who uses the Mohansic course, described sleepless nights waiting to sign up for the most desirable playing times on weekend mornings. "I've been there at 2 A.M. to get a decent time to play the next day," the Ossining resident said. "I've been there 12 straight hours to play a round of golf that lasts 4 or 5 hours."
John Ioris, who owns the Complete Golfer in White Plains, said that despite the recession, his shop had been selling equipment to first-time players and had had a good Christmas season. "The primary hindrance to the growth of the sport," he said, "is the lack of facilities on which to play. The county courses are terribly overcrowded. The county can use several more."
But Frank Squire, who plays in a foursome Saturdays at Dunwoodie, has his doubts about spending for a new golf course. "As a golfer, I absolutely feel we should have a new course," the White Plains resident said. "As a citizen, I'm not that certain. We have social problems that should be taken care of. Whether they outweigh recreational problems depends on where you're sitting."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (54%); NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (54%); NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); YORKTOWN (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF GOLF (92%); COUNTIES (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (87%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); APPROVALS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1993



88 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Auguring Well;
This Time They Really Mean It

 BODY:
Another year, another attempt to erase the deficit. It has already avoided the knives of Messrs. Gramm, Rudman and Hollings twice, as well as Presidential blades. Fiscal 1993, already under way, is heading toward a deficit of more than $300 billion.
 
Surplus by 1984
 
 Reagan's first budget: March 1981
 During the campagin, Ronald Reagan has promised a balanced Federal budget by fiscal year 1983. But his first budget proposal didn't attempt to predict one until fiscal 1984. It anticipated surpluses after that.

Deficit Gone by 1991
 
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings I: November 1985
 Congress took matters into its own hands. Under the new law, if the budget deficit did not meet a set of shrinking targets, automatic spending cuts would take effect. The goals weren't met, but the Supreme Court took everyone off the hook by declaring the key enforcement tool, automatic cuts imposed by the White House, unconstitutional.

Deficit Gone by 1993
 
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings II: September 1987
 Another, constitutional version. Congress hoped to force Mr. Reagan to agree to a tax hike. He refused, so Congress went ahead, cutting from the military and shifting expenses to meet the first year's target. Subsequent years would be the next President's headache.

Deficit Halved by 1994
 
George Bush's first budget: March 1989
 Even after assuming a rosy growth in the economy and cuts in spending, Bush and Congress had to juggle the books to get this first budget in line.

Deficits Cut by $500 Billion in 5 Years
 
Deficit, reduction agreement: October 1990
 After President Bush submitted a budget for fiscal 1991 that predicted a deficit of $64.7 billion, the Congressional Budget Office came back with an estimate of more that twice that size. In the final agreement, Congress bowed to some spending cuts and Bush broke his "no new taxes" pledge. They managed to trim $500 billion off five years' worth of deficits. But increasing expenses, especially for entitlements, and lower estimates of future tax revenues kept the situation looking grim.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY THREE BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); TAX INCREASES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1993



89 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Dawn at Last for a Troubled Economy
Recessions are like colds. They may linger a while, sufferers may curse them, but sooner or later they do get better. According to the Commerce Department's index of leading indicators, released last week, the economy's fever has all but passed. The index rose 0.8 percent in November, its second straight monthly advance and its largest gain in 10 months. The index forecasts economic activity six to nine months hence. Its increase "is a very convincing sign that a self-sustaining economic expansion is under way," said Norman Robertson, chief economist at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. Together with other recently released indicators, it means the prospects are good for gross domestic product "to grow at between 2.5 percent and 3 percent for 1993 without any fiscal stimulus," he said. That's good news for the nation's business leaders. Which industries will fare best in 1993? "The capital goods sector, primarily computers and high-technology goods. The strong upswing in spending will also mean a pickup in the industrial equipment sector." 

Awesome. Of Coke and Calories.
For a decade now, the Coca-Cola Company has been been hocking Diet Coke with the same slick slogan: "Just for the Taste of It." In advertising years, that's a millennium. But last week Diet Coke said it would soon fill the airwaves with two new raps: "Taste It All" and "One Awesome Calorie," written by the Lintas New York agency. The old slogan -- whose number is being retired -- was a favorite among the Coca-Cola cognoscenti. Not only did it help propel low-cal Coke to No. 1 among sugar-free brands, it also changed how people feel about the stuff. "One of the all-time greats," said Renee Frengut, president of Market Insights Inc. in Bronxville, N.Y., a market consulting firm. The slogan broadened the drink's appeal and changed the perception that sugar-free sodas were "only for ladies on a diet," she said.
 
What Does the Air Force Want?
In round one, the Compuadd Corporation of Austin, Tex., scored what seemed like a KO by winning the contract to sell 300,000 personal computers to the Air Force. But then Zenith Data Systems, a unit of France's Groupe Bull, coaxed the old Palooka-of-a-contract off the mat by saying the Air Force had not given it enough time to fine tune its bid. That was enough to get the Air Force to rescind Compuadd's contract -- worth $740 million -- and give it to Zenith. Round two was last week, when Compuadd and several other companies protested the Air Force's change of heart, saying Zenith had not given it "best value." After reviewing Zenith's award, the General Services Administration handed the contract back to Compuadd. Zenith did not use enough American parts, the G.S.A. said.. Groupe Bull's Paris spokesman said his company was "shocked," by the ruling.
 
The Canadian-American Skies
They are not exactly clones -- money-losing American Airlines, an industry giant, and money-losing Canadian Airlines International Ltd., an industry small fry. Still, there are synergies. Enough to lure American into taking a $194 million stake in the Canadian carrier. Canadian Airlines will use the cash to acquire new technology. The deal gives American a 25 percent voting interest in the Canadian company and comes with a 20-year contract to help Canadian Airlines with accounting and data processing. American expects to make about $2 billion over the life of the contract. The deal will enable American to expand its airline service business -- a profitable niche in a money-losing industry.
 
Fill-Her-Up Fares
What the airline industry loses on each seat -- thanks to the air-fare wars -- it tries to make up in volume. Why else would seat prices remain cheap with the industry so deeply in the red? That good-for-consumer, bad-for-the-industry strategy is not about to end. Northwest Airlines said last week that it would extend for three months fare cuts to Europe of up to 43 percent. Why continue the cut-rate tickets? "Too many seats," said Candace E. Browning, an analyst with Merrill Lynch.
 
Outsourcing to I.B.M.
Move over Queen Elizabeth II, it was a pretty horrible year for the International Business Machines Corporation too. But unlike the royal family, Big Blue received at least a little cheer at the end of 1992. In one of the largest outsourcing deals ever, the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, the military and commercial contractor, said it would turn over most of its information and telephone services to I.B.M.'s Integrated Systems Solutions Corporation. The deal -- worth $3 billion over 10 years -- would turn over McDonnell's in-house systems along with 1,450 staff members to I.B.M. McDonnell Douglas said the deal makes sense because it "eliminates the need for ongoing investment in an area that is peripheral to our core aerospace business," said Herbert Lanese, McDonnell Douglas's chief financial officer.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
U.S. Chips a No-Sale in Tokyo
Once he is confirmed, Mickey Kantor, President-elect Bill Clinton's choice for United States trade representative, will have his hands full over the problem of chips -- the silicon variety. In 1991, Japan promised to open its markets to American semiconductors. Negotiators agreed that American companies could have 20 percent of the Japanese market. American suppliers haven't come close. Worse, according to Carla A. Hills, the current trade representative, America's share of the Japanese market actually fell to 15.9 percent in the third quarter from 16 percent the quarter before. What can Mr. Kantor do? Not much under the aggreement. The negotiators failed to include provisions for sanctions if Japan's chip buying fell short.
Making it all even murkier, Mr. Kantor may have to recuse himself from the chip crunching because of a conflict of interest. His Los Angeles law firm, Mannatt, Phelps, Phillips & Kantor, registered with the Justice Department as a paid agent of the NEC Corporation, one of Japan's largest producers of semiconductors.
 
Japan's Enduring Trade Edge
Although its economy is in a slump, Japan's trade balance is still the envy of the world. According to the Ministry of Finance, Japan's current account surplus, the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, surged nearly 50 percent in November to $10.45 billion from $7.05 billion in November 1991. Exports increased by 0.7 percent over last year, but imports were down 5.7 percent, reflecting corporate reluctance to spend in a recession. Don't expect Japan's surplus to shrink anytime soon. A report by the Nikko Research Center Ltd., in Tokyo said there would not be "any significant change in the trend in the trade surplus."
 
Israel Thinks to Sell Its Phones
Technically, Israel has a Socialist government. Socialist governments favor large, state-owned enterprises -- or at least they once did. These days even the Socialists want to sell off Government property, even phones. Last week, the Southwestern Bell Corporation, an American regional telephone company, and Israel's Clal Industries Ltd., a high-tech conglomerate, said they would jointly bid for control of Israel's national telephone company, Bezeq. Abraham Shohat, the Israeli Finance Minister and a Socialist, recommended this month that the Government sell its 75 percent share in the Bezeq telephone monopoly. No price has been set.
 
It's G.M., or Isuzu, or Both
When Isuzu Motors Ltd., said it would stop making passenger cars to concentrate on sport utility vehicles, the General Motors Corporation thought it was the loser. Isuzu -- which is partly owned by G.M. -- produces several cars in G.M.'s Geo line. But when Isuzu said it would allow the Honda Motor Company to sell 20,000 sport utility vehicles each year under the Honda name, Isuzu dealers though they were the losers because they would now have to compete with Honda. But hile Isuzu dealers pine, quality-conscious Honda may not be happy for long. According to a recent study by J.D. Power and Associates, the automobile consulting firm, the Isuzu Rodeo, which Honda will sell, had considerably higher defects per 100 vehicles than the industry average.
 
Layoffs -- in China?
Britain -- the original site of capitalism's Satanic Mills -- may have closed coal pits last year and made plans to let 30,000 miners go, but China? The Worker's State? Last week China laid off 100,000 coal workers, and there were reports that as many as 400,000 more workers would be dismissed over the coming years. The reason for China's capitalist-style cutbacks are the same as those given by Britain's Conservative Party: at today's prices the mines are not economic. The Government said its layoff plans were still being formulated. "We'd like to do these things," said Tan Enli, a director in the Energy Minister.
 
THE ECONOMY
 
The Confident Consumer
Talk about warm and fuzzy feelings about the President-elect. Since the election, the Conference Board's Index of Consumer Confidence has been rising smartly. It climbed to 78.3 in December, from 65.5 in November. (The index was 100 in 1985.) The Conference Board also said its Index of Consumer Expectations -- which measures how confident consumers are about the future -- jumped to 104.5 from 85.7 in November. Last January, the expectations index sat nervously at 68.7. Since confident consumers are more likely to part with their cash than gloomy ones, the rise in consumer confidence could foreshadow increased economic growth. "An increase of such dimension in so brief a time period generally foreshadows significant improvement in the nation's economic performance," said Fabian Linden, head of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center.
 
Existing Homes on a Sales Roll
Finally, a little pep in the existing home market. The National Association of Realtors said last week that sales of existing homes surged 5.8 percent in November to the highest level since 1986. The adjusted resale rate for November was 19.2 percent above the level of 3.23 million units a year ago. The upturn coincided with a November rise in interest rates on 30-year mortgages to 8.31 percent from 8.09 percent the month before. "Many decided to buy after seeing a spike in interest rates during a time of economic recovery," said William Chee, president of the relators association.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Business Diary column last Sunday about the Compuadd Corporation, Zenith Data Systems and the competition to win a contract to sell the Department of Defense 300,000 computers for use by the Air Force misstated the outcome of the latest round. No award was made. The report also misstated the date of a protest by Compuadd and other companies. It was in September.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 1991 Isuzu Rodeo. China National Coal in Shanxi Province (Eastfoto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (82%); BULL (PAR) (80%); BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (82%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%); ASIA (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (82%); BULL SAS (80%); COMPUADD CORP (63%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS GMBH (51%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ITALIA SPA (51%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS IRELAND LTD (51%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ESPANA SA (51%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS CORP (51%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS SA (51%); ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS EUROPE (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%); ASIA (58%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (87%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); CONTRACT AWARDS (66%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



90 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1794 words

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Sure, it all seems beguiling now.
All the lively chat about infrastructure and all the intense seminars on spiritual renewal. The slow jogging and fast-food binges, the lip curls and love handles, the New Age networking and the his-and-hers Presidential file boxes full of holiday homework. 
 This is the time of cuddling, coddling and cooing, that brief, heady respite when Americans treat their new President like a newborn babe, regarding every word and step and smile as wondrous. Past sins are forgiven; future sins are unthinkable.
 
A Magazine Elevation
 Time magazine, which put a spooky-looking negative photograph of Bill Clinton on the cover last spring with the tag line "Why Voters Don't Trust Clinton," this week celebrates him as "Man of the Year" with the headline "The Torch Is Passed" and a tone of dizzy worship:
"Clinton's campaign, conducted with dignity, with earnest attention to issues and with an impressive display of self-possession under fire, served to rehabilitate and restore the legitimacy of American politics and thus, prospectively, of government itself."
It would be considered churlish to recall any low points of the Democrat's campaign now. The Clintons, after all, should savor this hour of splendor in the grass and glory in the power. Those who have enjoyed it in the past can testify that it is fleeting. As the maxim goes: "We make our arches out of brick so that after the leader passes through we have something to throw at him."
"America has a manic-depressive cycle with its leaders," said Michael Beschloss, a historian who has studied the Presidency, "and it's a bad thing, because it inevitably sets these Presidents up for a terrible fall.
"For the first 90 days or so, this is a Superman; we tend to find a virtue in every defect. Then, suddenly, there's a pardon of Richard Nixon or a Bay of Pigs, and we're disillusioned."
As soon as a President makes an unpopular decision or pushes a difficult program, a fickle public begins to find a defect in every virtue. And the very same qualities that once charmed can begin to grate.
"In the beginning, Jimmy could do no wrong stylistically," recalled Gerald Rafshoon, President Carter's media adviser. "But then after he made his first hard speech on energy conservation, people began to say, 'What is this thing with the sweater?' "
But that new breeze is blowing again, and among journalists, Democratic job seekers and social savants seeking access to the era of Fleetwood Mac and Big Macs, 'tis the season to be fawning.
 
Reborn Clinton Supporters
 In Washington, the number of cars with Clinton-Gore bumper stickers has grown noticeably since the election. Revisionism about his campaign has set in: just about everything he did is now described as brilliant, even things that received mixed reviews at the time, like his saxophone turn on Arsenio Hall's show.
And in this winter of content, it is now held that America is fortunate to be getting a strong-willed career woman as First Lady and First Adviser, and that the Clintons have gone from having a troubled marriage to a model one.
A panoply of influential journalists were eager to get the hottest ticket in town: an invitation to the Renaissance Weekend in Hilton Head, S.C., not to cover Mr. Clinton but to share intimacies with him in panel discussions closed to the working press -- even though they had to take vow of silence about what the President-elect said in the presence of 1,500 guests.
One who attended, Wolf Blitzer, the CNN White House correspondent, said it was worth the trade-off: "I think there's a difference between becoming friends with someone and attending something that allows you to get a greater perspective on what a person you're covering is like."
Even Mr. Clinton, who struggled with image problems in the campaign, has occasionally seemed abashed at the transition rapture. At the Little Rock economic conference, Robert Kuttner, an economic columnist, told the President-elect: "This has to be the defining moment of your Presidency. It is the President as leader, as explainer, as synthesizer. This is a magical moment and I thank you for including me and for offering this to the country."
To which Mr. Clinton replied, "I hope that doesn't mean it's all downhill from here."
 
Millie and Socks
 And that is precisely the danger.
The vote for President is the most personal of all votes, and Americans are possessive and judgmental about Presidents in the same way they are about movie stars.
"I used to say the White House theme song should be 'Riding high in April, shot down in May,' " said Sig Rogich, President Bush's image adviser for most of the first term. "But it's more like 'Riding high at 8 o'clock, shot down at 9.' "
During the Bush transition in 1988, Mr. Bush's aerobic rounds of sports were seen as evidence that he was a graceful athlete and an energetic leader who would not follow his predecessor's example and sleep through a world crisis. After a couple of years, however, many Americans began to regard these same scenes as a metaphor for a President who had lost touch, a Yankee squire zooming around in a gas-guzzling speedboat in the middle of a war over oil and golfing his way through the recession.
"My advice for the President-elect is to only play golf at night," said Marlin Fitzwater, Mr. Bush's spokesman. "They love Mr. Clinton in the golf cart. I remember when they loved George Bush in the golf cart, until it came to election time, and then that was seen as a distraction and an inability to focus."
Or consider the relative fates of Socks the Cat and Millie the Dog.
"The same photographers who are fawning all over Socks were fawning all over Millie and her pups four years ago," Mr. Fitzwater said. "Now the journalists don't like Millie anymore because they said she chased a squirrel at some event a few months ago and they wanted the Humane Society to come in and find out if Millie was killing squirrels.
"My warning to the Clintons is this: It's just a matter of time before Socks is accused of manhandling the mice in the White House."
 
Ford Was Charming, Until . . .
 Even men who left the Oval Office castigated as milquetoasts and villains had cuddly debuts.
The press was charmed when the new President, Gerald R. Ford, toasted his own English muffins and picked up his newspaper from the driveway. "Ford's Easy Manner Charms Hill," proclaimed a headline in The Washington Star. Then the pardon of Richard M. Nixon shifted the prism and made those same qualities look pallid and un-Presidential.
In "The Making of the President 1968," Theodore White wrote of the "transformation" of Richard Nixon from "the impulsive, wrathful man of the 1950's, so eager for combat and lustful for vengeance, to the man in the White House, cautious and thoughtful, intent on conciliation."
Just as the public has extreme mood swings about their President, so it swings back and forth on what qualities it wants in a President. In politics as in romance, those qualities are often simply the opposite of the ones that bothered people the last time around.
After the stolid Dwight D. Eisenhower, Americans were drawn to John F. Kennedy's youth and flair. But before long, critics began to worry about his ability to lead the nation. "There is a vague feeling of doubt and disappointment about President Kennedy's first term," James Reston wrote in a column in The New York Times on Nov. 15, 1963. "He has touched the intellect of the country but not its heart. He has informed but not inspired the nation."
After Kennedy's death, the nation began to see Lyndon B. Johnson's high-pressure sales tactics and craftiness as virtues that would allow him, in the wake of the tragedy, to "grab the wheel of government and make it go," as a Johnson aide, Harry McPherson, put it.
But when the nation grew disappointed with Johnson, the same qualities were reviled. "His big nose, the way he pulled his dog up by the ears, his showing his abdominal scar -- suddenly he was seen as a fixer, not a leader, an uncouth politician, not a statesman," Mr. McPherson said.
 
From Cardigans to Pageantry
 Americans expelled Mr. Carter, fed up with his cardigans and his frugality and his "de-pomping," as his aides put it. Hugh Sidey of Time magazine wrote that the easygoing Ronald Reagan was repainting the rundown White House and returning "dignity" and "pageantry" to "a nation that craves it."
(The fact that the fawning season lasted longer for Mr. Reagan than it did for most Presidents may hold a cautionary note for Mr. Clinton: the ancient-king model seems to wear better with Americans than the downhome-populist model.)
But eventually, as many Americans grew disgusted with the Reagan era's excesses, the less regal George and Barbara Bush seemed refreshing. Mr. Bush even modestly changed the Presidential signature from the front to the back of the souvenir White House tie tack.
Where the public liked Mr. Bush at first because he seemed far more engaged in policy than the detached Mr. Reagan, they turned to Mr. Clinton because he seemed far more engaged in domestic policy than the detached Mr. Bush.
The same image pendulum will most likely affect Mr. Clinton at some point.
Either when the new President makes some hard decisions or when he fails to, people may begin to chafe at his long-windedness or his permanent campaign or his insider ways or his desire to please everyone or his tortured tangos with interest groups. They might grow tired of his populist festivals, just as they did with Mr. Carter's.
Past and present White House officials suggest that all this first-act attention tends to give leaders a false sense that they are invulnerable.
"Jimmy Carter was no fool, and the guys around him were not naive," said Hodding Carter, a Carter Administration official. "But even so, at the moment it's going on, for that one little minute it lasts, you do sort of think: 'I don't need a boat. I shall cross the Potomac, and I won't sink beneath the waves.' It's human nature."
Clinton staffers say they know that the current mood has all the staying power of champagne.
"I came back to Washington after working for Michael S. Dukakis in 1988 and I was a knucklehead," said Mark Gearan, the deputy transition director. "I came back in 1992 and I was a genius. It makes you realize there are centrifugal forces beyond our control. I guess one is always a knucklehead-in-training."
Skip Rutherford, an old friend of the Clintons who works in the Little Rock transition office, agreed: "We know spring doesn't last year round. We realize there will be some cold, windy days out there. But, on the other hand, we don't need to put on our coats yet."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A credit line last Sunday with a picture of President Jimmy Carter and his brother Billy, with an article about the public's attitude toward presidents as their terms progress, referred incorrectly to the photographer. She is Teresa Zabala.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President-elect Bill Clinton arriving for a breakfast seminar yesterday in Hilton Head, S.C. (Reuters) (pg. 1); Ronald Reagan was said to have returned dignity and pageantry to the country. The Reagans gave a tour in 1981 of their ranch in Santa Barbara, Calif., on horseback. When Jimmy Carter, shown with his brother Billy in 1976, began to fall out of favor, even his choice of sweaters came under fire. When the nation grew weary with Lyndon B. Johnson, they no longer liked the way he pulled his dog up by his ears. (The New York Times, 1964); "Now the journalists don't like Millie anymore because they said she chased a squirrel at some event a few months ago and they wanted the Humane Society to come in and find out if Millie was killing squirrels," said Marlin Fitzwater, President Bush's spokesman, of the fallen star. The Bushes tried to get Millie to go back in the White House. (Associated Press, United Press International, Teresa Zabella) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (59%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HUMANE SOCIETY (59%); HUMANE SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (59%); HUMANE SOCIETY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (59%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HISTORY (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); WRITERS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



91 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 2919 words

HEADLINE: The Face In the Crowd

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
CAPRICE BENEDETTI stared fixedly at herself in the mirror, surveying her beauty, and saw that her color was just not right, so she repaired that deficiency quickly. She daubed on a touch more lipstick. Self-absorption is expected of a model. It was late in the day, and she had already changed clothes and makeup a half-dozen times, piling new look upon new look. "O.K.," she said. "I'm the next me."
She bounced out of her apartment building in Manhattan, the doorman nodding to this latest version of her. Quickly, her long legs propelled her into the humming convoy of pedestrians, those who had uncomplainingly lived with the same look all day long. "Some days, I'm changing my face and changing my clothes 10 times," she said. "I'm elegant. I'm casual. I'm chic. I'm downtown. I'm sexy. I'm theatrical. I begin to wonder: Who am I? I'm 10 different people. Where's the real me? You have an identity crisis. Who is this?" 
 As she wove through the crowds, there were, as always, covetous stares, but no sense of recognition. For hers was not a face that many would know.
Caprice, as she is known professionally, is an average fashion model. She is not Cindy Crawford or Naomi Campbell or Niki Taylor, and never will be. She is one of "the other girls." While she makes abundant money, never does her face decorate the covers of Vogue or Elle or Harper's Bazaar. Never has she been the Clairol girl or the Revlon girl. She wallows in the vast anonymity of fashion, her scrupulously made-up face blurring with thousands of others. Was she the one in that sequined dress in the Macy's catalogue? Was it her in the aqua T-shirt on page 132 of the September Allure?
She earns from $150,000 to $300,000 in a busy year, turning up in J. C. Penney and Neiman Marcus catalogues, in commercials for Honeynut Cheerios and Coors beer and in myriad fashion shows. That is astounding money for someone who is 26, and it eclipses the income of many average models, who make closer to $100,000. But Caprice takes on copious work and, after more than seven years, is well connected. In any event, the so-called supermodels can match her income in a month or two and bring in $2 million to $3 million a year.
As a model who will never be a cover girl, Caprice is more typical than atypical of the modeling business. Her orbit is the middle ground of very good but not exceptional models who are the backbone of the industry, the ones who do the grunt work of Seventh Avenue. They make do without the celebrity that anoints the top models. They don't get the megabuck contracts from the cosmetics houses, the acting offers from Hollywood. They don't marry Billy Joel or Richard Gere.
It was a miserable day. Leaden clouds had formed in the sky, offering fair warning of the rain to come.
"Usually, you have the whole city of New York showing up for something like this," Caprice said, walking up lower Broadway toward a smoke-colored tower where she was to try out for a hair-care commercial. Some weeks find her auditioning for as many as 10 commercials, few of which pan out.
When she emerged from the elevator, a half-dozen models were sitting in the waiting area, some of perhaps 200 who would seek the job, and they eyed one another suspiciously. Auditions offer intensities of mood. As always, though, there were familiar faces, available for a nerve-quieting schmooze. Caprice greeted a willowy, tawny-haired veteran of the audition wars.
"So how's married life?" Caprice asked.
"Great. I love it. Are you in love?"
"Was. Broke up."
"Oh, well. Move on."
"Yeah. It's hard."
Caprice is 5 feet 10 inches tall, with short dark hair, hazel eyes, high cheekbones and endless legs. She is beanpole thin, 125 pounds, with a waist just 22 inches around. She wears a size 4 or 6. According to her chart at IMG Models, the agency that represents her for print and runway work and collects roughly 20 percent of her income, she has great skin, good teeth, a good smile, great legs and good hands. She is ardent and full of emotive energy.
Caprice's name was called, and she entered a bare, brightly lighted room. "You always look fab," the casting director said.
She was to speak less than 30 seconds' worth of lines, bragging about how the product had rid her of unwelcome gray hair.
"If you're not comfortable, change the words," the director said. "And don't do too much selling. Make it fun."
She nimbly read through the beginning, messed up, tried again.
"O.K.," the director said. "One more."
She was finished, and the next name was called. " 'Bye," the director said. "Boy, you do look fab."
There was no call back for the hair-product ad. "So you try another," Caprice said.
Illuminated by the street light, Caprice's apartment looked sleek and elegant. Her closets were a constellation of clothing. She owned 20 dresses, 15 pairs of pants, 18 pairs of jeans, 15 evening gowns, 30 blazers, 20 leather jackets, 10 white shirts and 40 pairs of shoes. When they pass from fashion, the clothes go to her mother in Seattle, who is the same size.
Caprice shops at the finest boutiques, with a bent for Armani, Karan, Klein and Lauren, though she adores the Gap and J. Crew for casual clothing. Like any model, she does not find it difficult to spend $15,000 in one spree. While in Milan, Italy, recently, she left her wallet in a cab. Her credit-card company informed her that the person who found it bought $32,000 in clothing in a single day. Caprice concluded that the person had to have been a model.
Women who embark on modeling careers have two dreams sharp in their minds: to be on the cover of Vogue, Harper's Bazaar or Elle, and to land a major makeup contract. Few realize either dream. Were they to come true, they would most likely occur within the first year or two of modeling. The arbiters of beauty tend to make up their minds fairly fast, separating the faces of destiny from the faces of ordinariness.
Caprice's thoughts were drawn repeatedly to these two big dreams, and she knows neither will happen for her. She has appeared inside Elle and Harper's Bazaar, but never in Vogue and never on the cover of any magazine. "Oh, no, I'll never get a cover or a contract," she said. "If that was going to happen, it would have happened. A lot of it is timing. A lot of it is politics. You have to be nice to everyone. I feel often like I'm an ambassador to myself. It just didn't happen for me. My face just wasn't appealing at the time. And they always want new faces. By now, my face is known in the business."
The first couple of years that she modeled, these facts tormented her. When a shoot for Italian Vogue was canceled at the last minute, she was so depressed that she went shopping and spent $4,000. "When I was younger, I acted childish," she said. "I kept wondering, Why doesn't it happen?" Now, rebuffs produce no diminution of composure. When she was recently hired for a L'Oreal advertisement, she said to her agent: "Great. Who did they cancel?"
The model's world pivots around some derailed idea of beauty, for no waist of 22 inches can be maintained by living any semblance of a real life, the sort with an important role reserved for potato chips and hot-fudge sundaes. There is both an excitement and an emptiness to modeling. Caprice confesses to an ambiguity of purpose.
"This whole business is deception," she said, toying with her hair. "It's false advertising. It's total fantasy. How can a 5-foot-5 woman with a pear-shaped body put on a pair of leather pants and a tight shirt and look 5-10, 120 pounds and not pear-shaped? It's a shame. We give women false expectations and we make them feel worse about themselves. I feel guilty at times. I know I'm putting something on that most people can't wear. I know this is just a game."
An ineluctable part of modeling is the pressure to retain your ethereal look against the uncooperating ravages of time. Low-calorie is your god; zits are your devil. Most models starve themselves. They smoke heavily and drink gallons of coffee to throttle their appetites. They tend to be vegetarians. They work out at gyms daily. Caprice is an oddity, blessed with natural thinness. She shuns junk food and fried food, but eats with abandon, rarely works out and doesn't smoke.
Her health has taken some bruising. She developed sinus problems from all the flying she does for catalogue shoots and fashion shows. Her back aches. She has seen an acupuncturist regularly for three years.
The tendentious protocol of her calling prohibits her from revealing the real face behind the layers of makeup. "You can never go out of the house looking bad," Caprice said. "One time at 11 o'clock at night, I ducked out to get something at the deli. I had on sweats, high-top tennis sneakers and stuff on my jaw to get rid of a zit. Sure enough, I ran into a photographer. The next day at the agency, everyone was razzing me: 'Hey, we heard you looked really bad last night.' "
By now, Caprice knows that she not only can't look imperfect, but also can't act anything but cheerful. Two years ago, she was unable to mask her darkened mood. Within a matter of months, her uncle and her grandmother had died and she had broken up with her fiance. She went out on shoots wrapped in gloom. "No one showed the least bit of sympathy," she said. "Everyone said: 'Hey, you're a model. You're not allowed to have feelings. How dare you have personal problems! We pay you to entertain us.' Since I wasn't my bubbly, charming self, I lost an unbelievable amount of business. It was pretty disgusting. In the end, what it comes down to is you are a product, not a person."
"Do that thing with your arm." Click.
"Bring your hands up." Click.
"Try to act like you're hanging out in the front room, thinking about something." Click.
"Beautiful." Click.
Caprice, dressed in a Macy's sport bra, was posing in a rented apartment on Grand Street for a Macy's catalogue. David Herrenbruck, a Macy's photographer, was caressing his camera and barking directions.
"Watch the wrinkles in the bra," chirped Barbara Snyder, the art director for the catalogue. "They threatened me with death if there were wrinkles."
Catalogue work is the bread and butter of Caprice's business. Though hardly glamorous, it is steady work at good pay. At her age, Caprice gets little magazine work, for the fashion magazines crave younger, fresher faces. In fact, one day soon, no one at all will want Caprice's face. To turn 27 is to be very old and in need of another occupation. Caprice is thinking of becoming an actress.
Before the recession tightened budgets, models were routinely ushered to exotic locales for leisurely shoots. Now, pennies are dearer. Not long ago, Caprice wound up in Atlanta in a hotel with ants in the bed. It took an hour to kill them. Dreams of ants crawling in her ears aborted her sleep.
Caprice guessed she knew upward of 100 poses, and rolled out her repertory. She struck a subdued pose, then a beatific pose, then a flighty pose.
"Heavenly." Click.
"Yessss." Click.
Outwardly, Caprice was her familiar ebullient self, though inwardly she was seething. She thought the look was all wrong for the sport bras she was wearing. They had fake eyelashes and her hair was slicked back. Too elegant, she felt. And the side lighting threw shadows on her face. When she saw the pictures afterward, she hated them.
F OR every 1,000 aspirants who walk into a modeling agency, perhaps 10 or 20 will ever model. Sometimes, though, modeling comes to you. Modeling found Caprice in the women's clothing department of the Nordstrom store in Seattle.
She was born in Seattle, and after high school worked as a saleswoman. In March 1985, while on her coffee break, a scout for Marcella's Studio, an Italian modeling agency, spotted her. When he told her she had promise as a model, she thought he was demented. As a lark, she consented to a photography session and, with $300 in her pocket, agreed to journey to Milan and see what modeling might have in store for her.
Jobs arrived in fits and starts. She lived in Milan and Paris, building a portfolio. She shared quarters with other models, sleeping on the floor, eating crackers and cheese. In late 1986, she came to New York and signed with the Elite agency. Before long, she switched to the Ford agency, and last July went to IMG. J. Michael Bloom represents her for television work. Agency switching is common.
There were endless go-sees, appointments to be looked over by prospective clients, but also days of being whisked around in limousines and being fussed over by makeup artists. And she found that shrugging into clothes could reward her with $2,000 a day.
Not every assignment was simple. For Self magazine, she had to wrestle with a male model at the edge of the roof of a hotel in Dallas. It was 12 stories down, and the Fire Department watched with open nets. Once, she did a shoot wearing slinky clothing inside a church in Rio de Janeiro. Residents took umbrage. They hurled bottles and tomatoes. "I got nailed big time in the head," she said.
The business is replete with the need for endless self-promotion and a nimbleness at evading acts of vengeance. "You have to go out on a lot of client dinners," Caprice said. "You have to be seen at the right party or the right restaurant and with the right people. It's silly, but you do it to get a booking. It's a fake world. You have to live up to the image of what people think the model is. And so, you're constantly acting."
Models tell of how, if they switch agencies or enrage a photographer or client, they find themselves the target of unfounded rumors. A couple of years ago, word circulated that Caprice was pregnant and had quit the business and returned to Seattle. She learned about the rumor when she bumped into a colleague who asked her how the baby was doing.
IN the hour before the Arnold Scaasi spring fashion show started, the models were very busy. In the insistent dreariness of a drizzly afternoon, the murmuring crowd filtered into the Celeste Bartos Forum at the New York Public Library. Backstage, Caprice and 14 other models were riveted on mirrors, transforming their faces.
Daubing on blusher, Caprice spoke of runway work: "It's a madhouse. You're back here and you have to put on an outfit in like two minutes, and sometimes the earrings don't work and you rip them off and get another pair, or you get a run in your hose and you have to quickly change hose, and then you hate the outfit you have on, but you've got to go out there and look like you've had all day to get ready and like you'd rather wear nothing more than what you have on."
Caprice had seven "exits," or outfits, to wear. To pulsing music, she paraded down the runway past faces pinched with curiosity. Runway walking is an art of its own. Caprice explained: "You don't walk like a normal walk. You don't walk heel-toe -- you walk toe-heel. The clothes hang better that way. And you have to tuck in your pelvis and lead with your hips. It's all in the pelvis and hips."
On the runway, it was all lush glamour. Backstage, it was grim. Most of the dressers who undressed the models were new and sluggish. "They're just standing there," Caprice said with a moan. Her shoes were a size too big. "How am I going to wear these and look elegant and poised and not trip?" she howled. Toilet paper was the answer. She stuffed the toes with it, then added tape inside to grip her feet. As she headed down the runway, she scrunched her toes together. And her earrings kept falling off.
When the show ended, Caprice dressed in leather pants and a leather jacket and bounded out the side entrance. "That was really unorganized madness," she said. "Sometimes a show goes really smoothly, but often it's like this. Chaos."
The Metro Cafe and Club is on West 17th Street. It was late on a Wednesday night, and the fantasy people were there, projecting unending images across the noisy floor. There are a handful of fashion play spots where models go to connect and advertise that they exist and are not pregnant in Seattle. Among the current spots are Peace, the Playground and the Metro Cafe.
Ferreting her way through the crowd, a melange of chortling thin people, Caprice paused to accept the card of a casting director, to plant a kiss on the cheek of a photographer, to declare to a cosmetics vice president, "Well, don't you look great, babe!"
Everyone was happy to see everyone else. Caprice stoked herself with a glass of champagne. "Networking," she shrugged. "Have to do it."
Naturally, Caprice can't wear just anything when she goes out. A prescribed model look seems to become acceptable for six months, a year, then gets rudely replaced. Caprice and her model friends call the look the Uniform. Of late, Caprice said, the Uniform has consisted of tight black leather pants, high-heel platform boots and a tight leather vest or white shirt. Tonight, Caprice was emphatically in Uniform.
A model wandered over and said, "I want to see 12 movies this weekend, go on a movie marathon."
"Let's do it," Caprice said.
Another model said: "Look how thin Jack looks. Actually, everyone looks thin."
"This place reeks of thinness," someone else said. Midnight, and there was talk of heading to another club. And here, perhaps, was a good place to leave Caprice. She was smiling, giggling. She had a sip of her drink. Across the room was a photographer. She winked and beckoned him over. He began moving her way.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOOKING GOOD: Though she'll never be a supermodel, Caprice Benedetti's "great skin" and "good smile" help to earn her up to $300,000 a year. (pg. 1); "You can never go out of the house looking bad." "In the end, what it comes down to is you are a product, not a person." Products are what Caprice's face and body have helped to sell. Some days, "I'm 10 different people," she said, adding, "Where's the real me?" "I'll never get a cover or a contract," Caprice said. "If that was going to happen, it would have happened." (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S BAZAAR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CELEBRITIES (88%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); 

PERSON: CINDY CRAWFORD (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1993



92 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Come Join the Fight

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was distressed to see myself listed in "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13) as a sponsor of a constitutional amendment that would deny United States citizenship to American-born children of undocumented parents. 
 I do not support any proposal of this sort. Last spring my name was added in error as a co-sponsor of the amendment. On learning this, I immediately requested that my name be removed.
Such an amendment would create a permanent underclass, born in this country but not entitled to the same rights as citizens.
Many civil rights leaders, you maintain, are torn between their conscience and their constituents, as African-Americans worry that immigrants are displacing them from jobs and political power. Our job as leaders is to bring attention to the real causes of unemployment and disenfranchisement among both groups and to insure that they are allies in the movement for economic and social justice.
 
CHARLES B. RANGEL
Member of Congress, 15th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Dec. 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS; CONSTITUTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION IMMIGRATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (67%); 

PERSON: RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR) CHARLES B RANGEL (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



93 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Come Join the Fight

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was distressed to see myself listed in "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13) as a sponsor of a constitutional amendment that would deny United States citizenship to American-born children of undocumented parents. 
 I do not support any proposal of this sort. Last spring my name was added in error as a co-sponsor of the amendment. On learning this, I immediately requested that my name be removed.
Such an amendment would create a permanent underclass, born in this country but not entitled to the same rights as citizens.
Many civil rights leaders, you maintain, are torn between their conscience and their constituents, as African-Americans worry that immigrants are displacing them from jobs and political power. Our job as leaders is to bring attention to the real causes of unemployment and disenfranchisement among both groups and to insure that they are allies in the movement for economic and social justice.
 
CHARLES B. RANGEL
Member of Congress, 15th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Dec. 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS; CONSTITUTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION IMMIGRATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (67%); 

PERSON: RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR) CHARLES B RANGEL (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



94 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Conversations/Allan G. Lindh;
Is 1993 the Year of the Big One? Rumblings from a California Prophet

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif.

 BODY:
ALLAN G. LINDH looks the part of a latter-day Jeremiah, with a long russet-and-white beard, a piercing gaze and an absent-minded mien.
And he sounds the part when he warns Californians that the recent earthquakes in the Mojave Desert, among the largest in state history, are a "final warning" that the Big One on the southern end of the San Andreas Fault is just around the corner and that "it's time to act as if the damn thing will happen tomorrow." 
 "Tomorrow" in geological time is a hazy concept, easy to push aside, and Californians consider insouciance about earthquakes a badge of honor. But Dr. Lindh's latest caveats are the most ominous ever issued here. And they were followed by months of frequent aftershocks down south and a flurry of revised scientific predictions, which have made all but the most devil-may-care residents catch their breath.
Still, the chief seismologist at the United States Geological Survey does not see himself as a prophet of doom, but rather as a public educator, someone paid by the Federal Government not merely to delve the mysteries of earthquake science but to instruct people on risk reduction.
"It's not like being Jeremiah," Dr. Lindh said, making room for himself and a guest in an office where the floor and every available piece of furniture is buried under computer printouts, dirty coffee mugs, yellowed message slips and assorted athletic and outdoor gear. "It's like being a high school teacher explaining AIDS to teenagers."
Dr. Lindh says he doesn't enjoy scaring folks. But a little fear goes a long way toward motivating people to prepare for a natural calamity that need not kill them or destroy their property, he said. And it also goes a long way toward persuading public officials that investing in safe buildings and roadways is good business. "A magnitude 8 earthquake in an urban area is going to be a $100 billion event, but it should kill relatively few people," Dr. Lindh said. "It is within our capacity to turn earthquakes into events that, while terrifying, take very few lives. And to some degree we already have done that here in California, thanks to building codes and life style changes."
 
Death by Falling Parapet
 For the citizens of California or other earthquake-prone regions, Dr. Lindh said, safety is simple: a matter of bolting their houses to the foundations to avoid major property damage and paying attention to the "duck and cover" drills that have been part of Earthquake Preparedness Week every April here since 1985.
Consider the person inside an old brick building when the ground starts to shudder. Stay inside the groaning building with your head covered and you'll probably do fine, Dr. Lindh said. But panic and run into the street and you risk being killed by a falling parapet.
Dr. Lindh uses mathematical probabilities, a staple of earthquake science in the United States for nearly a decade, to educate public officials who must decide which problems to solve and which dangers to ease in an era of shrinking resources. "Society is always playing a high-stakes poker game when there's only so much money to spend," he said. "You move some problems to the foreground and others to the background."
The best way to decide where to spend money, Dr. Lindh said, is to quantify hazards in terms of the likelihood they will occur. For instance, the chance of being hit by an asteroid is somewhere between 1 in a million and 1 in a billion "and so not much money is being spent on asteroid shields."
But earthquakes are another matter. While seismologists argue about probabilities, Dr. Lindh said they generally agree that the chance of a major earthquake within the lifetime of a Californian is somewhere between 1 in 2 and 1 in 10. "If the odds of something that can kill your children are 1 in 10, you move it into the foreground," Dr. Lindh said. "If the odds are 1 in a billion, well, we take risks like that all the time."
Earthquake preparedness is harder to sell in Seattle, where Dr. Lindh has spent a lot of time lately trying to convince local residents and officials that they, too, live atop a precarious fault line.
Each "felt" earthquake here in California -- and there have been many in recent years -- is a wake-up call, reminding local officials to review their emergency plans and creating a stampede for batteries and bottled water. "But Seattle hasn't felt an earthquake since '65, so the education process is a much bigger job up there," Dr. Lindh said.
Dr. Lindh, who is 49 years old, came to his career via a long and winding road, similar to the one traveled by Jack Kerouac and his acolytes in the 1960's. Dr. Lindh's bachelor's degree took more than a decade, with stops at Cal Tech, Yale, Washington State, the University of Oregon and the University of California at Santa Cruz. Then, with a dog-eared copy of "On the Road" in his back pocket, he set off to the wilderness.
Living with some homesteaders in British Columbia and trying to earn money to repair a broken truck, Dr. Lindh and a friend were hauling sawdust at $100 a load to a gas well under repair. The rig site was "a scene from hell," Dr. Lindh said, a sea of icy mud two miles off the Alaska Highway. The work was hard and cold for everyone involved, except for one man who sauntered from his warm house trailer to the rig every few hours for a brief look-see.
 
Earthly Comforts
 That man was a geologist and he told Dr. Lindh that it was nice work if you could get it: $100,000 for the winter, with summers off to hunt and fish. It sounded good to Dr. Lindh, who pointed his repaired truck toward Stanford University. Ten years and much procrastination later, he had a doctorate in geophysics and a job at the Federal agency, whose motto is "Earth Science in the Public Interest."
When Dr. Lindh isn't talking probabilities and preaching preparedness, he offers eloquent testimonials to the San Andreas Fault, which tore asunder in Northern California during the Loma Prieta earthquake of 1989 but has not ruptured in the south for over 300 years. That quietude in the south doesn't suggest that the fault is safe, but that it is accumulating stress -- increasing the urgency that something awful is about to happen.
The San Andreas is a fearsome feature of the local landscape, Dr. Lindh said. But it is also the geological source of California's spectacular scenery because it carved the coastline with its harbors, the Sierra Nevada range with its winter snows and the sheltered Central Valley with its lush crops.
And that landscape is not merely beautiful. It is the source of billions of dollars a year in economic benefit, a thought that set Dr. Lindh rummaging through papers, looking for data from a recent lecture. "Ah, here it is," he said, a preacher ready for his finale.
"Shipping, agriculture and oil and gas alone reap $15 billion a year in economic benefit for the state of California," Dr. Lindh said. "A major earthquake, which might cost $100 billion in damage, occurs here every 50 to 100 years. Do the arithmetic and you'll see that the San Andreas gives us many times more than it takes away. So all we have to do is figure out how to invest a fraction of what the fault creates in making this a safer place to live."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Allan G. Lindh near the San Andreas fault. (Michael Tweed for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MOJAVE DESERT (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MOJAVE DESERT (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EARTHQUAKES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1993



95 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 11; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 2148 words

HEADLINE: True Leadership for the Next Millennium

BYLINE: By Paul Kennedy; Paul Kennedy, professor of history at Yale, is author of the forthcoming book "Preparing For the Twenty-First Century."

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
As President-elect Clinton, his Cabinet and advisers prepare to take office, concentration on immediate and short-term issues would be scarcely surprising.
Should the North American free trade agreement be accepted? Should more pressure be put on Serbia to cease its "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia? Can some troops now be withdrawn from Somalia? Should our profligate use of petroleum be curbed by a gas tax? How can the new Administration convince the markets it is serious about cutting the deficit? 
 Add to these challenges the unpredictable crises of the year ahead, and it would seem almost impossible for Bill Clinton and his fellow world leaders to focus on anything other than the problems at hand.
Yet, as we move toward the 21st century there is a compelling need for politicians and nations alike to raise their eyes from day-to-day issues, however pressing and tragic, and devote time to considering our global condition as a whole.
The immediate crises -- among them, turmoil in foreign-exchange markets, ethnic unrest, trade tensions, refugees -- have to be set within a larger context and understood as local manifestations of the way different societies are responding to broad trans-national forces for change. Unless we grasp the larger picture, we have no chance of preparing for the problems ahead, and will most likely find ourselves limited to reactive, damage-control measures when a crisis occurs.
But how, given the kaleidoscopic nature of contemporary world affairs, are we to distinguish the important from the ephemeral? It might help to consider an earlier time in this century when hopes of a new world order were also being overshadowed by economic fears, ethnic jealousies and political paralysis.
In a remarkable article in October 1930 (after the Wall Street crash but before Japan's invasion of Manchuria and the Nazis' seizure power), the Economist of London somberly surveyed contemporary global problems and concluded: "The supreme difficulty of our generation . . . . is that our achievements on the economic plane of life have outstripped our progress on the political plane to the extent that our economics and our politics are perpetually falling out of gear with one another. On the economic plane, the world has been organized into a single all-embracing unit of activity. On the political plane, it has not only remained partitioned into 60 or 70 sovereign national states, but the national units themselves have been growing smaller and more numerous and the national consciousness more acute. The tension between these two antithetical tendencies has been producing a series of jolts and jars and smashes in the social life of humanity."
This is not to imply that another Hitler is lurking around the corner but to suggest that those "antithetical tendencies" noted by the Economist are as much, or even more, in evidence today. With the Western colonial empires gone, the Soviet Union disintegrated and Yugoslavia torn apart, almost three times as many states exist as in the 1930's. All confront the task of reconciling technological change and economic integration with traditional political structures, national consciousness, socio-economic needs and habitual ways of doing things.
As the forces for modernization and integration press against social groups desperately clinging to older ways (French farmers and Chinese bureaucrats, for example ) and in some places are countered by the forces of disintegration (in, say, Slovakia and the Sudan), it becomes clear that we are witnessing a global process, not random incidents.
Furthermore, the task of reconciling economic and political structures will be complicated by trends that were scarcely evident three generations but now threaten to worsen social tensions in all manner of ways.
In the place of the Fascist threats of the 1930's, there are numerous volatile regimes in Asia and Africa, some striving to obtain weapons of mass destruction.
There is also the problem of growing demographic imbalances between rich and poor societies: 95 percent of the projected doubling of the world's total population, from five to 10 billion people, between now and the middle of the next century will take place in developing lands. This has profound implications for the environment, political and social stability, the prospects of sharing diminished supplies of water and woodlands and for migration patterns.
The 1990's are unfolding with vast numbers of ambitious and desperate peasants moving from their strife-torn overpopulated homelands toward the prosperous societies of Europe and North America.
At the same time, new technologies -- completely automated assembly plants, biotech farming and food processing, 24-hour-a-day futures trading -- make traditional jobs redundant, even in developed economies, while further eroding the economic sovereignty of countries. In sum, we again face a "series of jolts and jars and smashes in the social life of humanity," with every likelihood that such shocks will continue.
Given the dimension, complexity and apparent inevitability of these technological and demographic forces, is there really anything that the Clinton Administration can do, especially in light of America's budget deficits, social needs, the shake-out of so many household names in the manufacturing industry, and spiraling health care costs?
Don't U.S. politicians have enough on their hands in simply dealing with domestic problems, from downsizing the military to reviving the inner cities? Isn't grappling with the more than one million people who stream across the Rio Grande each year a task enough, without Mr. Clinton's being required to respond to demographic trends in Africa and Asia?
Certainly, addressing internalneeds is critically important, not just for the Democrats' electoral chances in 1996 but because a more productive, vibrant and confident nation would also be in a better position to contribute to solving global challenges. This does not mean, however, that the U.S. can completely insulate itself from the world's problems.
More than ever before -- much more than in the 1930's -- what happens in the world outside affects America's prospects, simply because we have become so much integrated economically, strategically and politically in global affairs over the past half-century. Unlike Franklin D. Roosevelt, Bill Clinton probably cannot afford the luxury of devoting his first few years of office to domestic renewal alone.
Thus, the broad trans-national forces call for true leadership by the President and Congress and their equivalents elsewhere. Such leadership would display three critical, linked characteristics. The first is a willingness carefully to study and try to understand the truly global nature of the challenges we face. The second is an ability to articulate clearly why it is important to pay attention to external trends and, where necessary, to allocate resources to deal with pressing needs outside our own boundaries. And the third -- the most important of all -- is a commitment to evolve policies, in conjunction with our allies and the appropriate international agencies, to ameliorate and contain global trends that threaten instability and to support measures that encourage sustainable development.
All three attributes -- understanding, explaining, carrying out -- are required. In the absence of one of them there is no prospect of progress.
Supposing that the Clinton-Gore team can avoid being totally overwhelmed by the domestic agenda and is able to comprehend trans-national challenges and persuade America of the need for sacrifices to improve our global condition, what policies would really make a difference? What could be done to ease worries about long-term trends as against simply reacting to regional crises that are their manifestation?
No doubt 100 different replies, involving policies, large and small, could be given in answer to those questions. The danger is that in trying to do everything at once an Administration's energies can become dissipated and attention become unfocused. It is far better to deal with only a few critical issues, giving them the attention they deserve and relegating other policies to a secondary order -- another sign of true leadership.
What might the top four issues be?
The first, admittedly long-term but arguably the most vital of all, is to encourage a reduction in the global population explosion, which is the cause of mass poverty and also feeds into social turbulence from Algeria to India. At a time when tens of millions of married women in the third world, already weakened by bearing three or four children, are desperate to gain access to benign contraceptives (like Norplant), it is unconscionable that our Government -- lumping sensible population-control measures with forced sterilization and abortion -- should continue to deny funds to assist efforts to reduce the demographic explosion.
Improving the condition of women in developing countries, especially their access to education, would be the single most important move to bettering mankind's social condition. This will take time, so why not start now?
Second, intelligent proposals are needed to head off the growing gap between the rich North and poor South, not just on humanitarian grounds but also because of urgent pragmatic reasons. It is inconceivable that Americans and Europeans, a mere 10 percent of the earth's population, will be able to exist as islands of prosperity in a sea of poverty and social strife as the next century unfolds.
A North-South "grand bargain" that included environmental pacts, increases in overseas aid from today's pitifully low percentages, the maintenance of open access to the third world's exports and reduction of fuel use and greenhouse emissions is a fundamental requirement.
Given the past record of failures and inefficiencies in development policies, selling such a deal to the public will be no easy task -- even if we have leaders willing to tell the nation that, while this will surely cost us large sums now, the results of neglect might be even costlier later.
Third, there is need to address a more immediate and more traditional military danger -- namely, the proliferation of sophisticated weapons, some capable of long or medium-range delivery and mass destruction, into the volatile regions of the globe.
What will be increasingly different about future politics as compared with the time when the Economist warned of "jolts" and "smashes" is that poorer countries will come into possession of such weapons and be able not only to inflict dreadful damage on their neighbors but also to carry that destruction farther afield. Do we want to wait until, say, the range of North African missiles extends to Paris and Frankfurt before waking up -- or join instead a serious campaign against proliferation, including sales by our own arms industry?
Finally, because all these considerations will affect America's society and economy in a world of rapid technological change and the disappearance of many traditional jobs, we need to introduce apprenticeship and retraining systems like those in Germany and Sweden and to raise the numerical and literary skills of the noncollege population to those in other advanced economies. We need alterations in the school curriculums -- from grammar schools to elite universities -- to teach about global trends.
More than that, we need politicians who will keep reminding the public of the truly significant developments in world affairs instead of appealing to short-term interests ("no new taxes") and pandering to anti-foreign and protectionist forces.
There must be better ways of responding to the impacts of globalization than restricting food and textile imports from third world countries -- moves that only worsen their problems and send more illegal migrants streaming to our shores. All this involves costs both in money and in political popularity.
Sixty years ago, the coming jolts and smashes in the social life of humanity eventually produced one leader who offered his country only blood, sweat, toil and tears. But Winston Churchill had it easy in one way, since the external threats had become so clear and the need for sacrifices so obvious that he offered the only real alternative.
The challenge for the Clinton Administration is to convince America and our allies that today's global trends, while less immediate a threat to national security than Fascist aggression was, might be equally perilous to our well-being over the long term and thus require equally serious responses. If the new team can successfully respond to the new global agenda -- understanding, explaining and carrying out intelligent policies to meet the changed conditions -- it will indeed have demonstrated true leadership. But that is a big if.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; WOMEN; ARMS SALES ABROAD EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILLENNIUM (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FUEL TAX (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); KENNEDY, PAUL M (PROF) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



96 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
The Loneliness of the Layoff Survivor

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
PETER DiToro, a senior consultant at Computervision in Bedford, Mass., is a veteran of what is becoming the combat zone of the 90's. He has survived a half-dozen rounds of layoffs over the last four years and in recounting them, he talks about this group "getting shot" or that group having "a hand grenade rolled under it."
The dramatic shrinking of American industry during this seemingly endless slump has been characterized by large companies laying off thousands of workers. While the focus has been on the plight of the suddenly unemployed, the survivors are left to handle the emotional stress wrought by dramatic changes in the workplace, often with scant attention from senior management. 
 Like passengers who survive a train wreck in which others perished, employees who keep their jobs often experience pangs of guilt and long periods of anger and inability to accept what has happened, before awareness of the new reality sinks in.
Amid the fear and uncertainty, heightened by the constant threat that more layoffs will be coming, perhaps with less lucrative severance packages, those who remain must take on increased workloads, often adding 20 hours or more to their workweeks. Consultants say this often leads to burnout, stress on relationships and finally an employee who is little good to himself or the company.
"Business leaders don't pay much attention to the tensions" after a layoff, said Jim Francek, a human resources consultant based in Norwalk, Conn. "There tends to be a gruff 'They should be happy they have a job' kind of attitude toward the survivors." This attitude is a mistake, he says.
Mr. DiToro, a 45-year-old middle manager and the sole breadwinner in a family of four, understands better than most workers that lifetime employment is no more. Computervision, a maker of computer-aided design software, was until recently part of Prime Computer, once a leading minicomputer manufacturer. Prime acquired Computervision in 1988, just as its own minicomputer business turned sour. Prime left minis and in 1992 folded its remaining operations into Computervision, laying off thousands. The company went from 12,500 employees in 1988 to the current 5,000.
Mr. DiToro has emerged a grizzled pragmatist. "Job security is gone," he said. "I expect a revolution in my career every five to seven years."
He joined Prime in 1987 from a good public sector job, lured by the promise of a cash-rich, employee-oriented company that had never had a layoff, he recalled. Two years later his group of 25 industry marketing specialists was eliminated. Half, including Mr. DiToro, found other jobs within the company immediately. He spent eight months in a new business development group with six others, and then that group was cut.
Mr. DiToro was one of two who survived, moving to a spot with another product marketing group. Eleven months later, the bottom dropped out again.
"They cut a group of 55 down to 15 in one morning," he said. "They just called us into a room in groups of eight or nine and handed us the severance package. My manager was tough, and people were afraid to work for her, but that morning she cried."
WHILE the others went out for a tearful group lunch, Mr. DiToro got on the phone. "I had three interviews lined up by the time they got back from lunch," he said. Forty-eight hours later, he had a job with a group that is now part of Computervision.
"Before the first layoff, there was a lot of fear," he recalled. "Everyone knows something is coming, work stops, you wonder if you should be looking for a job. After the first layoffs, there was a sense of security. People had the attitude they could always get a job. But that has since disappeared."
Mr. DiToro said the layoffs had bred resentment among workers. "People are certainly asking the question 'What's in it for me?' more now."
Alcohol consumption has risen outside the office, he said, and the signs of emotional pressure are evident. A once-dapper manager shows up unshaven, with frayed cuffs.
Nevertheless, morale is generally better now than it was right after the layoffs, he said, with personal variations. Some have taken low-profile jobs and kept their heads down in hope of avoiding future cutbacks, but many of those people are unhappy, Mr. DiToro said. He has continued to stay active and visible, broadening his skills in technology "strategically important to the company," learning programming, for example.
Mr. DiToro said he has been spared any guilt feelings. "I've always believed that you are your own corporation," he said.
"There's no complacency," he said. "Every time I visit a customer, I assume the guy walking in as I'm leaving is the competition. If we ever feel fat and sassy, we'll be making the same mistakes again."
 
 
 
MANAGING THOSE WHO REMAIN
 THREE issues are critical for executives managing employees who have survived a round of layoffs, Jim Francek, a human resources consultant based in Norwalk, Conn. said.
* What is the current reality for employees? What job or jobs are they expected to do? Who is the boss, and how will the employees react to this person?
* What is the corporate vision now? The vision is at the top of the organization, and often employees below do not know what it is.
* Pay attention to the tension. It is unrealistic to expect people to react quickly to layoffs and move on.
"People often feel they are running in place; they feel physically fatigued, and fear is high," Mr. Francek said. "They are happy to have a job but guilty to have one as well."
Quinn Mills, a business professor at Harvard Business School, said managers spend more time on the people getting laid off than on the survivors. "They have to spend time with the survivors, allay their fears, let people meet and talk through the issues," he said. "Change is often good if you bring some newness and spirit to it."
"People can get personal satisfaction if a company builds teams around the concepts of quality and customer focus and sets out a sense of purpose," said Tim Hall, professor of organizational development at Boston University. "But companies are still struggling with how to provide that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter DiToro, who has dodged a half-dozen rounds of layoffs at Computervision. (Joe Wrinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PRODUCT MARKETING GROUP INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; STRESS (HUMAN) LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); WORKPLACE STRESS (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); WORK WEEK (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); FAMILY (68%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (60%); ENGINEERING SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993



97 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: When Housing Collides With Race and Class

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN

 BODY:
VELMA WILLIAMS divides her life between two worlds. During the day she works as a statistical assistant for the Veterans Memorial Medical Center in West Haven where she has many things in common with her colleagues, most of whom are white. They often laugh together, eat together and share stories about their families. But when the day is done, said Ms. Williams, "We go our own ways, and as a black person mine is to be isolated."
For 16 years Ms. Williams has lived in the Brookside public housing development in New Haven. Situated next to a landfill, the complex is cut off from the rest of the city by a ring of fences and dead-end streets. Residents of the neighborhood say that garbage collection, public transportation and police protection are inferior to other neighborhoods, and that residents who need medical assistance often have a difficult time getting nurses to visit because the area is perceived as dangerous. 
 The mother of a mentally disabled daughter, Ms. Williams describes herself as a warrior for the tenants association, as she fights to expand housing opportunities for minorities. She calls it the toughest battle of her life.
She is among hundreds of residents of public housing complexes and affected neighborhoods who have come forward in public hearings in the past year. Some, like Ms. Williams, have expressed guarded approval, but the hearings also brought out cross currents of fear, bitterness and anger concerning the Housing Authority of New Haven's plan to scatter 183 homes for low-income residents in predominantly middle-class areas of the city. The emotionally charged sessions have often included contradictory testimony that has been critical of the city's housing practices and its commitment to racial equality as well as reflecting conventional ideas about race and class.
 
Arson Fires in Morris Cove
 In late October, two homes associated with the plan were set on fire by arsonists. In one, a 69-year-old woman went running into the streets in the middle of the night after spotting a blaze in her kitchen. The police said that a third fire in a vacant home nearby was related to the other two because the arsonists might have assumed that the Housing Authority owned the building. Two of the fires occurred in the East Shore neighborhood of Morris Cove, which has been the scene of racially motivated incidents over the years. The police have not yet identified any suspects.
But many residents in Morris Cove and other neighborhoods targeted for the plan said the issue had less to do with race than with the Housing Authority's dismal reputation as a landlord and their fears that property values might decline as a result. They point to the city's loss of tax revenue in homes purchased by the Authority when citywide property taxes are expected to rise more than 25 percent in the next three years.
"Most people don't care who lives next door to them, just so they can take care of their home," said a resident of Morris Cove and an opponent of the plan, Paul Maccio. "And when the Housing Authority's involved, everything goes to ruin."
The Authority, which is buying the homes to replace 366 units lost when the Elm Haven high-rise complex was demolished in 1989, is under a Federal mandate to find housing units in mostly white neighborhoods, in order to reduce racial segregation of public housing tenants. The Authority has received $18 million from the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development to acquire 183 of the units.
 
A Widening Chasm
 Lawyers from the New Haven Legal Assistance Association have sued the Authority and the city, charging them with reinforcing housing discrimination and perpetuating a long history of acquiescing to white homeowners. One of the lawyers retained by the Legal Assistance Association, Glenn Falk, said that for decades the city and the Authority have widened the chasm between black and white households by abolishing plans to reduce the number of low-income residents in white neighborhoods, while units proposed for areas with large minority concentrations have cleared with few problems. In the four years since the Elm Haven high-rise was demolished, he added, the Housing Authority has acquired only 11 single-family homes and all of them remain vacant.
The executive director of the New Haven Housing Authority, David Echols, said the process of acquiring homes had been slowed due to the maze of red tape required by the Federal Office of Housing and Urban Development, the lack of available land and the extension of public hearings.
The Authority is in the process of buying 15 additional homes and will begin renting units this month, he said, adding that the tenants will be chosen through a screening process now being developed by a coalition of residents in public housing and from neighborhoods that will be affected by the plan.
In response to residents' complaints about the Authority's management practices, Mr. Echols said that a private company has been hired to oversee the homes. He added that he was tired of residents and politicians using the Housing Authority as the scapegoat for all of New Haven's social and economic woes.
"If job and housing discrimination wasn't such a part of this country's makeup and if poor people had a stronger support system we wouldn't even be in this predicament," he said.
 
Urban Renewal in Background
 To a large extent the city's housing problems can be traced to its aggressive urban renewal programs from the 1950's through the 70's. Designed to stave off the social and economic deterioration of the area, the program, which was considered a national model, evolved into a story of good intentions gone awry. During those years some 10,000 housing units were demolished, uprooting nearly 8,000 households, according to records from the Federal Office of Housing and Urban Development.
While many white people left the city or moved to Westville or the east shore neighborhoods of Morris Cove and the Annex, black residents settled mostly in Fair Haven, Newhallville and the Hill. Between 1956 to 1967 alone, 31 percent of black residents relocated from mixed neighborhoods to predominantly black public housing units. The programs deeply affected the city's demographic patterns, laying the groundwork for much of the racial tension that exists today.
Mr. Maccio, a longtime resident of Morris Cove, said that many families who migrated there from the central city still felt the wounds from that period. Mr. Maccio, who was raised on Legion Avenue in the Hill section of New Haven, described his neighborhood of mostly Italian households as a close-knit enclave of families struggling to survive. Many of the residents, like Mr. Maccio's grandparents, had immigrated from small, isolated villages in Italy and few had had any encounters with people from different ethnic or racial backgrounds, he said. And when they came to New Haven, Mr. Maccio added, "They carried their prejudices and suspicions about outsiders over from the old country."
When the Legion Avenue neighborhood was demolished in the early 1960's to make way for commercial development, Mr. Maccio's family and hundreds of others moved to Morris Cove and other outlying areas. He said the neighborhood, which covers the eastern end of New Haven Harbor, grew into a solid middle-class community with few of the problems of the central city. "No matter what," said Mr. Maccio, "you knew your neighbors and you knew your history."
At the same time, an undercurrent of xenophobia developed among some residents, which gave the neighborhood a reputation as "a place that didn't like outsiders," he said. But at the core of that image, Mr. Maccio said, was a well-entrenched fear of the past. "We had already watched the intellectuals and the politicians concoct a misguided attempt to create a model city and all it did was unglue stable neighborhoods," he said. "Now they want to ram through plans for a housing program whose salient points are still not known."
 
Warehousing and Exclusion
 But the president of the local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Haywood Hooks Jr., said that the real victims of urban renewal in New Haven were black residents who continue to be warehoused in public housing developments and excluded from certain neighborhoods.
"I've heard the argument over and over that the public housing tenants don't share the same work ethic as white folks and that many poor people will pay minimal rents for homes comparable to ones that others have worked so hard to buy," he said. "Well, most people in public housing are just as hard-working and responsible. The truth of the matter is that those people out there don't want to see anyone of color coming into their neighborhoods buying better homes."
When Richard Gay and his family moved to Morris Cove in 1979, he said they had no idea that they would not be welcome. But for the next nine years, he said, the family was subjected to dozens of racially motivated threats. Residents once drove by threatening to burn down their house, he said, and later the family dog was poisoned. One Halloween night, Mr. Gay said he sat at his bay window and watched a parade of cars circle his house. In one convertible a man disguised under the clothed head of a white horse stood up and shouted "Niggers, get out."
In 1988 his family moved to a predominantly black neighborhood in New Haven.
But Velma Williams, who is among several plaintiffs named in the Federal lawsuit against the Housing Authority, said they could not let such incidents prevent them from living where they want. "The black family that chooses to live in places like Morris Cove are going to be real trailblazers," she said. "They'll no doubt be scrutinized. But we're used to having to prove ourselves."
On a quiet afternoon in Morris Cove recently, Dorothy Pickop, 88 years old, sat in the English cottage-style house that her father built in 1914, where she has lived all of her life. As a youngster, she said, she used to take the trolley into New Haven to attend the public high school, a trip that took about an hour. She and her sister often swam or rode their boat around New Haven Harbor, or reclined on the balcony of the family's bathhouse and watched the oyster boats dock across the bay. In those days the area was home mostly to summer residents and "good old Colonials," she said. But in the late 1920's more and more Italian families began moving into the area. "I don't remember anybody saying anything about it," she said.
Miss Pickop said she has seen the Cove change from a placid summer resort to a populated residential neighborhood, and she could not understand all the commotion over the Housing Authority's plan to place a few low-income families in her neighborhood. "It would break my heart to think that just because a person has a low income they don't have a nice place to live," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The New Haven Housing Authority plans to move low-income people from places like the Brookside public housing development, top, to houses scattered in predominantly middle-class neighborhoods like Concord Street, abovel; Velma Williams, a worker at the Veterans Memorial Medical Center, expressed guarded approval of the housing plan. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN) UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); ARSON (89%); MEDICAID (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); HATE CRIME (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); LANDFILLS (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); FIRES (67%); TESTIMONY (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%); 

PERSON: RIERDEN, ANDI

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



98 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: A BRIGHTER OUTLOOK IN A STILL SOFT ECONOMY;
Spending Is Up, but Jobs Aren't

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
FOR Westchester, 1992 was a most difficult year -- one that many observers of business activity in the county said they were happy to close the books on.
It was a somber year -- a period when bad news clearly overshadowed the few bright signs suggesting that economic hard times might not last forever. 
 Looking back at 1992, economists will remember it as the year when Federal regulators seized three county-based banks, one major department store shut its doors in New Rochelle and another closed shop in Yonkers, when the nation's largest automaker announced layoffs and a plant closing in North Tarrytown and a major international firm packed up its corporate headquarters in Purchase and moved out of town.
Meanwhile, vacancy rates for commercial real estate in the county continued to rise, the construction industry stagnated and corporations continued the painful process of downsizing.
All the while, the lines for unemployment kept growing as many workers in the county lost their jobs -- and in the process, their homes and their confidence in the future, too.
What Frank M. Surdey, an economist with the New York Department of Labor, called the "human side" of a lingering recession included reports by some unemployed workers of months and, in some cases, years without a job and few prospects for re-employment.
It was, Mr. Surdey said, "an extremely difficult time for the labor market."
In the 12-month period ending in October, the county lost 7,800 jobs, down 2 percent from the year-ago period.
The hardest hit was the wholesale and retail sector, where 4,900 jobs were lost. Some retail establishments cut back on hiring; others, like Macy's in New Rochelle and Alexander's in Yonkers, went out of business. Also during the year, manufacturing saw a loss of 3,000 jobs, affecting factory workers like those in North Tarrytown, where General Motors reduced its work force and went to a single production shift. The automaker also announced in February that it would close the North Tarrytown assembly plant in 1995.
In the first 11 months of 1992, unemployment in the county averaged 6.3 percent, the highest average rate for a comparable period since 1977, when it was 7.1 percent for the whole year.
In October, the rate was 6.2 percent, which was the highest for that month in 16 years. The rate in November 1992 was 5.5 percent.
 
A Hopeful Sign
 Although economic indicators, like consumer confidence, suggested that the recession was drawing to a close, Mr. Surdey said the labor situation was a far different story.
"Beyond those indicators, we have not seen an improvement," Mr. Surdey said. "The economy is still soft."
One hopeful sign for workers was the release of figures for the average workweek during October. They showed that the workweek for manufacturing was increasing to 40.1 hours from 39.7 hours in September.
But because job losses for manufacturing grew over the year, those figures could mean little except that fewer workers were putting in longer hours.
But a longer workweek often precedes actual rehiring, so the figures may, in fact, suggest that the recession is finally easing, said Noreen L. Preston, an economic development specialist for the county's Office of Economic Development.
 
'Running a Tighter Ship'
 At best, economists agreed, the unemployment patterns during 1992 reflected changes in employment that will be with the county for years to come.
For one, the economists said, job growth is no longer in the major corporations but in small and medium-size companies that specialize in health care, computer technology and services like personnel, accounting and building maintenance.
For the larger companies in the county, among them some Fortune 500 corporations wrestling with the impact of global competition, survival has become a matter of "running a tighter ship," Ms. Preston said. "They have to focus now on the bottom line."
Among those firms is the Armonk-based computer giant International Business Machines, which in addition to downsizing over the year also announced more severe cutbacks -- 25,000 jobs -- for this year.
The banking industry, too, saw the need to run a leaner and meaner enterprise in order to survive. In February, Federal regulators seized Dollar Dry Dock Bank, which was the largest bank based in the county. In June, the American Savings Bank was closed. Also last year, American National Bank, a credit card institution in Larchmont, was closed by Federal regulatory agencies.
 
An Active Mortgage Market
 For many banks that watched from the sidelines as those events took place, the stories of bank failures so close to home reinforced the need to bring under control some problems that had been simmering for several years. The overall message was that overlending in commercial real estate during the previous decade had finally taken its toll, bank officials said.
For most banks, the mortgage market was active in 1992, with many homeowners looking to refinance existing loans to take advantage of lower interest rates. But consumer lending was down overall, and lending to mid-size businesses was down even more, as many companies eschewed quick growth and followed a straight and narrow path in order to survive challenging times.
The biggest problems facing banks are the glut of unleased and unsold commercial real estate in Westchester and the problem loans that resulted from what is now being viewed as overly optimistic growth in the 80's.
"It will take some time to compensate for the overbuying of the late 70's and early 80's," said Robert C. Hooley, executive vice president and chief lending officer for Peoples Westchester Savings Bank, which is based in Hawthorne.
 
A Few Positive Signs
 The vacancy rate for commercial property at year's end was 22 percent, compared with 20 percent a year ago, said William V. Cuddy, a senior vice president with Rostenberg-Doern Company, a commercial real estate brokerage firm in Purchase.
Private real estate, although still a struggling market, offered some positive signs that the economy was improving, reported Merritt K. Mitchell, president of the Westchester Multiple Listing Service, a division of the Westchester County Board of Realtors.
Housing sales topped the 5,000 mark, bouncing back from an all-time low of 4,431 sales in 1990, Mr. Mitchell said. Single-family homes sold best during 1992, with condominiums running a close second. Sales of cooperatives, however, lagged behind along with multifamily homes.
Sellers were being more realistic about pricing, backing off from the high prices that homes were selling for in the late 1980's, Mr. Mitchell said. And buyers were less fussy in 1992, he said. Those factors, combined with lower interest rates for mortgages, fueled the market.
 
Hardly Any New Building
 But new-home construction flagged, and the construction industry felt the effects, said Ross J. Pepe, president of the Construction Industry Council of Westchester and the Hudson Valley, a professional trade group representing 500 businesses and 40,000 construction workers.
"Aside from some housing and commercial work, there has been virtually no new building," Mr. Pepe said. "The workers are devastated."
"For those depending on the building trade, it has been a dismal year," Mr. Pepe said.
County legislators echoed concerns about a downbeat economy as they turned down requests this year for pay raises from four unions representing corrections officers, nurses and teachers.
"We have to keep faith with the taxpayers," said County Legislator Audrey G. Hochberg, a Democrat from Scarsdale. "These are hard times."
 
Malls Moving Forward
 Voters, too, appeared to shy away from further spending this year, when they turned down a $26.3 million state jobs bond act, dashing the hopes of, among others, construction workers who had hoped the act would generate jobs. But as Harold E. Vogt, president of the 3,000-member Westchester County Chamber of Commerce, said at the time, it was more important to focus on "financial housekeeping" in hard times than to spend more money.
But not all of the news was bad. Ms. Preston of the Office of Economic Development said that while the wholesale-retail sector had suffered, plans moved ahead for three new shopping malls in White Plains. And the Galleria at White Plains, an 880,000-square-foot mall in the heart of the city's business district, announced plans to spend $8 million for a face lifting.
And while the Nestle Food Corporation closed its headquarters in Purchase and merged with a sister company in California, taking with it 400 county jobs, other companies moved into Westchester.
Perhaps the brightest news on that front came from the United States Tennis Association in Queens, which announced that it was purchasing a 110,000-square-foot, four-story office building in Harrison and would move in during the first part of the year.
 
'New Signs of Life'
 The Brown Paper Company, a paper distributor, moved from the Bronx into a 40,000-square-foot building in Mamaroneck. George Little Management Inc., a trade show company, moved to 10 Bank Street in White Plains. The Sony Corporation moved a regional office to Briarcliff Manor. And Reich & Tang, a financial services concern, moved to Tarrytown.
Those moves represented more than 350 jobs for the county, Ms. Preston said. In all, 80 new companies have moved to Westchester during 1992, generating about 2,600 new jobs and softening the blow of corporate restructuring, she said.
"The downsizing has been a real negative," said Margaret S. Soter, director of commerce and economic development for the county, "but, clearly, we see new signs of life in the economy."
Renewed indicators that the economy was picking up could also be seen along North Broadway in White Plains, where a commercial building front was recently renovated to provide access to a new upscale restaurant, Papa Razzi, and a health club.
"We definitely see Westchester on the rebound, especially with the new malls coming in," said Kevin Vouglitois, regional manager for the Back Bay Restaurant Group in Boston, which owns Papa Razzi.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The newsstand area under construction at One North Broadway in White Plains. Despite the high vacancy rate in the county, the ability of the building to rent a high proportion of its available space could be an indication that the economy is improving. (David LaBianca for The New York Times) (pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); WORK WEEK (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); TRENDS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); RELOCATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1993



99 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN MOSCOW: Bush and Yeltsin Sign Pact Making Deep Missle Cuts;
A Last Treaty Of Its Kind

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3

 BODY:
If nostalgia enveloped George Bush on his 25th and probably final foreign adventure as President, there was also some nostalgia for the old sureties of traditional arms control.
Given its very sweep, the second Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II, is likely to be the last agreement of its kind. It represents both the triumph and the limit of two-way negotiations on arms control in a world that is no longer bipolar. 
 The Soviet Union may have been a totalitarian menace, but its military commanders -- especially compared with the military commanders in some of the world's current trouble spots -- were responsible professionals who knew the dangers of the weapons they brandished or faced, and who could largely be expected to keep to the letter of the agreements they signed, however long or hard the negotiation.
 
New Cast of Nuclear Powers
 There was no fuss then about ratification by parliaments or any need to assuage the wounded pride of new states, like Ukraine, that woke up as nuclear powers and started to like the way it looked in the mirror.
Each difficult, incremental treaty on the road to Start II felt momentous -- not because arms were reduced in any meaningful way, but because the gap of ideology and misperceptions crossed by the superpowers was so cavernous and the rope across it seemed so thin.
The treaty is a legitimately momentous agreement, around which President Bush, President Boris N. Yeltsin and their speech writers did their best to spin flourishes of oratory about peace, children, trust and brotherhood. But there was a curious lack of moment.
This odd fact was caused in part bythe haste of negotiation, and in part by Russia's impoverished condition, as an imploded empire reaching for aid and acceptance. Russia's diminished status seemed to intensify Mr. Bush's, even though he is a lame-duck President.
But there is a deep, underlying sense that the new world is not only more complicated, but also considerably more volatile than the old. The end of the cold war straitjacket has meant the start of conflicts based on old nationalisms and economic rivalries, just as the collapse of the old fears of mutual assured destruction and nuclear holocaust has made the world safe for conventional war.
 
Disagreement Over Serbs
 As much as Mr. Bush and Mr. Yeltsin talked of cooperation and partnership, they clearly have their disagreements over how to deal with Serbian aggression in the former Yugoslavia. Mr. Yeltsin must face Russian conservatives and some nationalists who say they feel that he has already betrayed their "Serbian brethren" as well as old Soviet allies in Iraq, Syria, Cuba and elsewhere.
The shelling over Mogadishu, Somalia, while Mr. Bush spent Friday night on an American naval vessel offshore was a reminder of the limits of relief intervention and feel-good gestures that Russian-American amity cannot solve. In Cambodia, where Washington and Moscow brokered a peace treaty through the United Nations Security Council, the Khmer Rouge's blatant defiance of that treaty and their continual kidnapping of United Nations peacekeeping troops promises a future renewal of horrors that could make Serbian behavior seem civilized.
The disclosures of Iraq's long and secret efforts to develop chemical and nuclear weapons, despite intermittent international inspections and despite Baghdad's signature on treaties that should have banned such programs, is a reminder of the actual value of treaties intended to stop the spread of arms. The behavior of Western companies that knowingly sold advanced machinery to Iraq that could be used for weapons-making raises questions about how former Soviet companies and their skilled scientists will act in a free-market system with porous border controls.
 
Future Tasks Cited
 Senior American officials here spoke of the future tasks of arms control, pointing to the Chemical Weapons Convention, scheduled to be signed shortly in Paris, and the effort to extend the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty beyond 1995.
But they also understand how difficult Start II will be to ratify and carry out, even assuming that Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan follow through on their pledges to become non-nuclear states. According to a study by the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, the United States and Russia each employ more than a million people to build, field and maintain their nuclear arsenals. Dismantling these structures will present fundamental political, economic and environmental problems. Dismantling the weapons themselves, plus thousands of tactical nuclear weapons, is full of dangers.
The Harvard study estimates that the Russians will have to destroy 100,000 metric tons of liquid rocket propellant, which explodes on contact with air, as well as safely transport, store and protect the highly prized nuclear material in all those warheads.
Washington has promised direct financial and technical aid to Moscow and Kiev for these purposes, but the cost of dismantling these arsenals safely is likely to be shocking, diplomats suggest, far in excess of the initial American installment of $800 million.
 
Democracy as Arms Control
 One senior American official said wanly that "democracy is the best form of arms control," arguing that democratic nations do not start wars.
But it is always possible, as Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia made clear last month in his stunning mock speech in Stockholm, that the Russian Government may one day end up in the hands of extreme nationalist, anti-Western politicians or military men who will treat Start II much as President Saddam Hussein of Iraq treated his solemn commitments.
Another American official cautioned that there were limits to Washington's ability to influence events here or even to control how Russia carries out the treaty.
"Both the financial obligations and the willingness to undertake the task are responsibilities that Russia and the other parties are accepting themselves," he said. "It is the Russian people and their leadership in this present instance who want to put some of the worst and most destabilizing aspects of the nuclear age behind us and accept that responsibility. We can help, but we're by no means the principal actor."
 
 
 
LEASHING WEAPONS: 30 YEARS OF PACTS
August 1963 (Limited Test Ban Treaty): Prohibits nuclear testing or any other nuclear explosions in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water.
 
January 1967 (Outer Space Treaty): Prohibits sending nuclear weapons into Earth orbit, placing nuclear weapons on celestial bodies or stationing them in outer space.
 
July 1968 (Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty): Prohibits the transfer of nuclear weapons to other countries and prohibits helping countries without nuclear weapons to make or or acquire them.
 
May 1972 (Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty): Bans space-based defensive missile systems and limits the United States and Soviet Union to one ground-based defensive missile site each.
 
July 1974 (Threshold Test Ban Treaty): The Soviet Union and United States agree to limit underground nuclear weapons tests.
 
June 1979 (Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty): The first formal strategic arms treaty sets an initial overall limit of 2,400 intercontinental ballistic missile launchers, submarine-launched missiles, heavy bombers and air-to-surface missiles, with the ceiling to be lowered in stages later.
 
December 1987 (Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty): Provides for the dismantling of all Soviet and American medium- and shorter-range land-based missiles and establishes a system of weapons inspection to guard against violations.
 
November 1990 (Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty): Originally negotiated between the members of NATO and the Warsaw Pact, the treaty limits the number of tanks, artillery, armored combat vehicles, combat aircraft and combat helicopters that each side is allowed to maintain in Europe.
 
July 1991 (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty - Start I): Brings the number of Soviet long-range nuclear warheads down from 11,012 to 6,163 and the United States warheads from 12,646 to 8,556.
 
January 1993 (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty - Start II): Slashes the superpowers' arsenals to a third of their current size. The American arsenal will be cut to 3,500 warheads and bombs, while the Russians will be down to 3,000 warheads and bombs. The reductions are to be carried out by 2003.
 
(Source: Arms Control Association for warhead numbers for Start I and II.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



100 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN MOSCOW: Bush and Yeltsin Sign Pact Making Deep Missle Cuts;
It Would Reduce Atom Arsenals About 75%

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3

 BODY:
With a flourish of oratory and a dash of wistfulness, Presidents Bush and Boris N. Yeltsin signed a treaty today calling for the most significant rollback yet in the formidable nuclear arsenal of the cold war.
The signing ceremony in the richly embellished St. Vladimir Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace was the centerpiece of a two-day "working visit" that also marked Mr. Bush's last curtain call in the East-West drama that defined so much of his presidency. 
 The new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II, called on the two nuclear giants to eliminate almost three-quarters of their 20,000-odd nuclear warheads by 2003, scrapping some of their most threatening weapons. President Yeltsin called the treaty "the core of the system of global security guarantees." [Excerpts from the press conference, page A8.]
 
A Major Threat Removed
 The process includes the total elimination of the most formidable weapon yet concocted, the multi-warhead land-based missile. These missiles, which can each launch many separately aimed nuclear warheads, form the backbone of Russia's arsenal. A senior American official declared that in bringing these weapons to an end "once and for all," the treaty would eliminate "that dreaded thing called the first strike."
The treaty, to be completed in two phases, also calls for deep cuts in missiles launched from submarines and bombers, the main pillar of America's nuclear deterrent.
Though by far the most extensive disarmament treaty ever signed, the bulk of Start II was negotiated in a mere six months, compared with the decade it took for each of the earlier strategic arms limitation treaties, known as SALT, and the first strategic arms reduction treaty. The speed of the feat seemed to show what the treaty itself termed "the new realities that have transformed the political and strategic relations between the Parties."
 
'Centuries-Old Dream'
 Neither President skimped on hyperbole in prepared statements read before aides and reporters who had witnessed the signing.
Mr. Yeltsin said: "It is not every century that history gives us an opportunity to witness and participate in an event that is so significant in scale and consequences. The treaty signed today represents a major step toward fulfilling mankind's centuries-old dream of disarmament."
Mr. Bush said: "We meet at the beginning of a new year and at a moment that is also a new era for our two nations and for the world. We stand together today in this great city at the threshold of a new world of hope, a widening circle of freedom for us and for our children."
But the first reaction in the Russian media was a warning not to "pop champagne corks yet." In its report on the summit meeting, a Russian television news program noted that the Ukrainian Parliament seemed to be moving further from ratifying the first Start treaty, a prerequisite for the new one to go into effect.
 
Resistance in Moscow
 The commentary further noted that despite Mr. Yeltsin's assurances to the contrary, the conservative Russian Parliament could also balk at ratifying a treaty that many conservative Russians might view as lopsided in favor of the United States.
There were other dramas that the summit pomp also failed to conceal.
First was the fact that Mr. Bush has only numbered days left in his presidency.
In 17 days, the treaty he signed and the American-Russian relationship that took shape under him would be passed on to President-elect Bill Clinton.
Both presidents stressed that Mr. Clinton had endorsed their efforts, and Mr. Yeltsin announced that he had sent a letter to the next American President urging that they meet "in a neutral place" as soon as possible after the Inauguration.
 
A Good-Bye for Bush
 But Mr. Yeltsin made a point of paying a warm tribute "to my colleague and friend, George," and there were some who thought they spotted a misting of Mr. Bush's eyes when the burly Russian turned to him and said, "Spasibo, George" -- "Thank you, George."
That note of farewell weaved through Mr. Bush's entire trip, first in Somalia, where the President spent New Year's with troops bringing relief supplies, and this evening in Paris, where Mr. Bush was to dine with Francois Mitterrand, the French President.
On his arrival in Moscow from Somalia, Mr. Bush was joined by his wife, Barbara, by James A. Baker 3d, his former Secretary of State, and by Brent Scowcroft, his national security adviser, giving the proceedings the air of a last reunion.
The ornate trappings of past summits were scrapped in favor of a low-key "working meeting" that included only one relatively restrained banquet and the signing ceremony. The only unofficial activity was a brief tour of the Kremlin by the two Presidents and their wives, during which they dropped in on one of the series of annual New Year's spectacles for children.
 
Santa Backs the Treaty
 As the leaders walked in, Grandfather Frost -- the Russian Santa Claus -- intoned, "Today, children, a wonderful treaty will be signed, which will make all our lives easier."
But with Russia closed down for a long New Year's weekend, during which no newspapers were published, many Russians were barely aware that the American president was in their midst.
One who was quite aware was Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet president. A senior aide to Mr. Gorbachev, Anatoly Chernyayev, expressed dismay to Reuters that Mr. Bush totally ignored his former partner in detente, especially now that the American had "nothing to lose."
 
Standing on the Tank
 But Mr. Bush seemed more keen to claim a new garland than to delve in the past. "Today the cold war is over, and for the first time in history, an American President has set foot in a democratic Russia," he declared.
He then heaped praise on Mr. Yeltsin, "for your unwavering commitment to democratic reform and for the history you've written since the heroic day in August '91 when you climbed atop that tank to defend Russia's democratic destiny."
That kind of tribute was one reason Mr. Yeltsin had pushed for the summit meeting at the start of a new year. He had concluded the last one with a humiliating drubbing at the Congress of Peoples' Deputies in December, when he was forced to jettison Yegor T. Gaidar, a market-oriented economist, as his chief of Government and to name in his stead a conservative manager, Viktor Chernomyrdin.
Mr. Chernomyrdin sat impassively alongside Vice President Aleksandr Rutskoi, another political thorn in Mr. Yeltsin's side, as the Russian President reported that he had "assured" Mr. Bush that the new Prime Minister would continue "on the same road of reforms."
The first question to Mr. Yeltsin by a Russian reporter highlighted another problem he faces, the resistance the increasingly hard-line Parliament might show to ratifying the treaty.
Die-hard Communists and far-right Russian nationalists resent what they perceive as Mr. Yeltsin's kowtowing to the West and have actively resisted his foreign policy, including his disarmament efforts.
"I am not going to conceal from you that a certain part of the deputies are against the treaty," Mr. Yeltsin said. But he insisted they were a minority, and that the treaty would be approved.
Both presidents went to some length to claim that the treaty was fair to both sides. Senior American officials noted that it included concessions not considered before, like letting the Russians peek at sections of the B-2 bomber to see how many nuclear bombs it could carry.
The reductions called for in Start II are to come in two phases: the first within seven years after the treaty goes into effect, and the second by 2003 -- or sooner if the United States can help Russia pay the costs of eliminating strategic weapons.
 
Strongest U.S. Suit
 But Russian critics were certain to decry the total loss of their vaunted SS-18 missile, which can carry up to 10 independently targeted warheads, while America gets to keep a portion of its submarine-based missiles.
Mr. Yeltsin protested that even after the reductions, Russia would have 3,500 warheads, more than any power other than the United States. "This is a powerful shield, which is capable of defending Russia in case of an unexpected aggression from any side," he declared.
"May I simply add that we do not view this as a one-sided treaty at all," Mr. Bush said. "We view it as balanced and I think that history will record it as such."
Even more worrisome was the position of Ukraine. Like Belarus and Kazakhstan, the other republics with nuclear missiles stationed on their territory, the Ukrainian Government has agreed to observe the first Start treaty and to transfer nuclear weapons to Russia for dismantling. But the Ukrainian Parliament has so far failed to ratify Start I, demanding that it first receive ample compensation and security guarantees against Russia.
The Ukrainian President, Leonid M. Kravchuk, who has repeatedly assured Western and Russian leaders that Ukraine will come through, issued a statement today hailing Start II as a "momentous event."
But Mr. Kravchuk gave no date for his Parliament to take up disarmament. Instead, he called for negotiations with Russia on "a wide range of technical and financial questions" related to the nuclear weapons.
 
 
 
ARMS TREATY HIGHLIGHTS
 The Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty signed yesterday by President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin calls for a two-thirds reduction in the strategic nuclear arsenals of the United States and Russia by the year 2003. Each side would end up with 3,000 to 3,500 warheads. These are some of the major provisions:
-- A ban on all long-range land-based missiles with multiple nuclear warheads, long regarded as the most destabilizing weapons. That means elimination of Russia's SS-18 missile, the centerpiece of its nuclear forces. Moscow now has 308 of the 10-warhead weapons, and was already committed to dismantle half of them under the arms treaty signed in 1991. The United States would have to scrap or modify its 50 MX missiles, which have 10 warheads each.
-- Russia may retain -- and reuse for basing other missiles -- 90 of the silos that now house the SS-18s.
-- Russia may convert 105 of its 170 SS-19 missiles, which now have six warheads apiece, to single-warhead weapons. The United States' Minuteman III missiles, which carry three warheads, may be modified to carry a single warhead.
-- The United States would have to cut by about half the number of warheads it has on submarine-launched missiles, traditionally the area in which the United States enjoyed the greatest advantage. The number is to drop from 3,456 to 1,728.
-- The United States would grant Russian inspectors access to its long-range nuclear bomber fleet to verify the types and numbers of weapons being carried.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin exchanging pens after signing the arms treaty in Moscow. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); President Bush, his wife, Barbara, and President Boris N. Yeltsin attending a children's New Year's party in Moscow. When the leaders arrived, Grandfather Frost, left, the Russian Santa, said, "Today, children, a wonderful treaty will be signed, which will make all our lives easier." (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



101 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
U.S. AND RUSSIA SIGN ARMS PACT
Presidents Bush and Yeltsin signed a landmark treaty in Moscow that calls for their countries to eliminate almost three-quarters of their nuclear warheads by 2003. A1
 
NOSTALGIA FOR THE OLD ORDER
News analysis: The signing of the Start II treaty was a poignant final adventure in George Bush's Presidency. Adding to the nostalgia was a sense that the world is more volatile than it was during the cold war. A1
 
President-elect Clinton welcomes an early meeting with Mr. Yeltsin. A9
 
America invades Moscow with fast food and videocassettes. A8
 
SOMALI CROWD ATTACKS U.N.
Rock-throwing protesters besieged the United Nations compound in Somalia's capital. It was the second country in a week to protest the arrival of Secretary General Boutros-Ghali on a peace mission. A1
 
The Marines leisurely came to the rescue of the U.N. leader. A6
 
Somalia's warring factions are to open talks today in Ethiopia. A6
 
The U.N. will pull aid workers from a port where one was killed. A6
 
SHELLS ISOLATE 400 PALESTINIANS
Shells landed near tents in southern Lebanon where about 400 Palestinians are living after being expelled by Israel. The Palestinians said Israelis were trying to prevent people from bringing them food. A2
 
An Israeli intelligence agent was slain in Jerusalem. A2
 
WITH A MAP, BOSNIAN FOES MEET
Radovan Karadzic, leader of the Serbian nationalists who have seized two-thirds of Bosnia, met in Geneva with Bosnia's Muslim President, Alija Izetbegovic. They gave conflicting reports of their talks. A3
 
Germany's Economics Minister resigns over aid to a cousin. A3
 
Svaty Jur Journal: Cut off, Slovaks search for their identity. A4
 
National A10-13, B12
 
CLINTON FILLS ECONOMIC SEAT
Responding to pressure to name a prominent mainstream economist to his Council of Economic Advisers, Bill Clinton has offered a seat on the council to Alan Blinder of Princeton University, and Mr. Blinder has accepted, Clinton aides said. A1
 
NAVIGATING THE TV DIAL
Plans by a cable television company to expand its systems tenfold in some cities provoked the lament, "500 channels and nothing on." But a more fundamental problem remains: how would anyone know? Simply figuring out what's on television is becoming skilled labor. A1
 
COURT TEST FOR THE PRESS
The case of a reporter and an abused child is headed for the Supreme Court, possibly leading to a major First Amendment decision. A10
 
NUTS AND BOLTS OF INAUGURATION
Apart from the lofty issues of symbolism and politics involved in an inauguration, vendors are consumed with practical problems like how to connect electrical systems and how high to build bleachers, in addition to how to make money. A12
 
CONFIRMATION HEARINGS SET
Senate committees will start conducting informal confirmation hearings of Clinton's Cabinet selections this week. A12
 
SNOW SHUTS DOWN RESORT TOWN
Tahoe City Journal: Vacationers and merchants dug out from one of the worst winter storms to hit the Sierra Nevadas in a decade. A10
 
CONCERN OVER MEDICAL BILLS
According to a new survey, low-income Americans are most concerned with paying doctors and hospital bills. A13
 
ROBOT MISSION CANCELED
Scientists called off the robot Dante's mission of climbing down into an Antarctic volcano when a communications cable broke. A13
 
ASTEROID PHOTO RELEASED
The space agency made public the first close-up photograph of a speeding asteroid whose path in space crosses Earth's orbit. B12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
BILINGUAL-EDUCATION DEBATE
Two decades after bilingual education was introduced into the New York City school system, its effectiveness is the subject of debate. Champions of bilingual education assert that teaching immigrant children in their native tongues is essential to their progress. But critics say the program has developed serious flaws. A1
 
Sports C1-9
 
A COMEBACK TO REMEMBER
As soon as Steve Christie's field goal sailed between the goal posts, the yelling and cheering began. Buffalo was celebrating one of sports' most historic comebacks. A1
 
Football: The Bills beat the Oilers, 41-38, in overtime. C1
 
Eagles first rally then dominate Saints, 36-20. C1
 
How the Oilers let it slip away. C7
 
Basketball: Seton Hall's Dehere a late, but fragrant, bloomer. C9
 
Kentucky defeats Indiana, 81-78. C9
 
The Barkley era in Phoenix. C3
 
Columns: Vescey on the Saints. C6
 
On Pro Football C5
 
Hockey: Rumors of a Hull trade preoccupy Rangers. C4
 
Islanders' Hogue excels at center. C4
 
Sports People C2
 
Business Digest D1
 
Neediest Cases B8
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Talk of Hollywood. C11
 
Struggling artists. C11
 
Film: "Unforgiven" wins critics' award. C14
 
Music: Wei Hai-Ming Chinese Theater Troupe from Taiwan. C11
 
Amor Artis in Bach. C12
 
Brazilian-Caribbean songs. C13
 
Word and Image:
 
3 enduring journalists. C14
 
"Americas" on PBS. C16
 
Obituaries B14
 
Dr. Frank J. Rauscher Jr., leading cancer researcher.
 
Johnny Most, sports broadcaster.
 
Jerome S. Hardy, created Time-Life books.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
New Year's in the city.
 
A huge rate hike for Empire.
 
Folksiness at the White House
 
New York's loss: Timothy Healy.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: The soul of justice.
 
William Safire: Peeping Tom lives.
 
Alexander Abrams and David Lipsky: The boomlet generation.
 
Osha Gray Davidson: Farming the system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SOMALIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); LEBANON (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SOMALIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); LEBANON (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); POLITICS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



102 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: SOMALI CLAN CHIEFS ARE TO MEET TODAY

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Members of Somalia's most powerful political factions plan to meet here on Monday for talks that are intended to give them a sense of joining in the rescue of their country, the United Nations Secretary General said today.
The fundamental aim of the talks is "to make Somalis feel they are participating in their own national rehabilitation and that the thousands of soldiers and relief workers in their country are not a foreign army of occupation," Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali told reporters who flew to Mogadishu with him for the day. 
 Demonstrations at the United Nations compound today organized by one of the two factional leaders who control Mogadishu forced the Secretary General to cancel a visit to the United Nations headquarters in the Somali capital for his own safety.
Mr. Boutros-Ghali dismissed the rioters, who diplomats and others said had been organized under the banner of Gen. Mohammed Farrah Aidid, as "people who do not want the peace process" because they profit from looting aid convoys or being paid not to.
 
A Rare Meeting of Leaders
 The talks would only be the second time that many of these clan leaders have sat down at the same table since their country sank into anarchy after the fall of President Mohammed Siad Barre in January 1991. The first was a meeting between representatives of nine factions also held in Addis Ababa in December 1991.
"They have no telephones, no faxes, no mail in Somalia," the Secretary General said. "They can't move around or meet each other in safety." So the United Nations chartered two aircraft to shuttle representatives of the fighting factions here from four different locations in Somalia tonight.
The Secretary General said that he would ask the factions to establish a permanent liaison committee based in in Mogadishu to keep up contact with the United Nations.
They will also be asked to offer an agenda for a United Nations-sponsored conference on national reconciliation to be held around April to establish an interim government. That government is needed as a basis for economic reconstruction, he said.
"There has to be some legitimate authority to raise loans, set up a new peace force and re-establish law and order," Mr. Boutros-Ghali said.
 
Seeking a Plan for Disarming
 As part of the reconciliation process, the United Nations will ask 14 factions to agree to a plan for disarming themselves. The United Nations also plans to convene a meeting of potential donor countries and international lending institutions like the World Bank in February to prepare a plan for Somalia's long-term postwar reconstruction.
About the same time, the United States-led force in Somalia is expected to hand over responsibility for internal security and aid distribution to United Nations peacekeepers.
The Secretary General said he envisaged a force of 15,000 to 20,000 that would be heavily armed and aggressive because it would be imposed under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter, which allows the Security Council to enforce its decisions by military means. Mr. Boutros-Ghali indicated that such a force would be likely to have a long stay as order was slowly restored.
"We have had peacekeepers now in Cyprus for 28 years" he said.
What makes mediating in Somalia so difficult, Mr. Boutros-Ghali said, "is that the Somalis are not aware of the end of the cold war" and still imagine they can play off the West against the East as they did in the past, enlisting the help of one side or the other in their internal power struggles.
The United Nations role, he said, is not to fight colonialism but to try "to get the world's attention focused on countries like Somalia so they can get the help they need."
On the return trip to Addis Ababa, the Secretary General made a short visit to Djibouti, which is starting a two-year term on the Security Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (99%); ETHIOPIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOMALIA SOMALIA (99%); ETHIOPIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; LOOT AND LOOTING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); RIOTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



103 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Summit in Moscow: Comes the Next Generation;
With Yeltsin Overture, Clinton Backs Early Meeting

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HILTON HEAD, S.C., Jan. 3

 BODY:
Responding to an invitation for an early meeting with President Boris N. Yeltsin, President-elect Bill Clinton said today that he looked forward to meeting with the Russian leader soon and indicated his support for the arms treaty signed today between the United States and Russia. But he said he had made no decision as to when and where such a meeting would take place.
Speaking to reporters at the Hilton Head airport just before returning to Little Rock, Ark., after a six-day family vacation, Mr. Clinton said he was "very pleased" to have received the invitation from Mr. Yeltsin but added: "I have not made a decision about when we're going to meet and where we're going to meet. I think that is going to depend in part on the timetable of the Congress and the work that I have to do here on the problems of America." 
 Mr. Clinton took pains several times during the brief news conference to indicate strong support for President Bush's policies on Russia and Somalia, the two principal stops on Mr. Bush's journey. Asked whether he planned to make any dramatic changes regarding United States policy on the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty signed today or on Somalia, Mr. Clinton said emphatically no.
"With regard to Russia and Somalia, the two things that are part of the President's trip, I don't think you can look forward to dramatic changes," he said. "I hope we'll see some progress. I hope we can conclude the mission in Somalia successfully. But I've said all along that when the President decided to send our troops there and he said he hoped the main mission would be over by Jan. 20, we couldn't hold him to that and we're doing what we have to do there."
 
Yeltsin Seeks Neutral Site
 Publicly issuing the invitation in Moscow, Mr. Yeltsin called for a meeting with Mr. Clinton in a neutral country as soon as possible and said that a lull in relations between the two countries would be "cause for concern."
Mr. Bush sought to assure the Russian leader, saying: "I've talked to President-elect Clinton enough to know that he is most interested in keeping this U.S.-Russia relationship on the high plane at which it stands right now. And I've told President Yeltsin that I think he will enjoy working with Governor Clinton."
Mr. Yeltsin responded by saying, "I hope that he will take over the baton that was given to him with such grace by President Bush."
The Russian President said he had sent a letter to Mr. Clinton in which he proposed meeting after the inauguration to discuss world problems and bilateral relations.
"There should be no lull in our relations with the new administration, because any lull in the bilateral relations between the superpowers would give cause for concern," Mr. Yeltsin said.
 
Bush Meets with Mitterrand
 Later, in Paris, President Bush repeated his reassurances about Mr. Clinton at a news conference after a farewell meeting with President Francois Mitterrand. "I think Governor Clinton will be a good man to work with," he said. "I'm very much one who wants to see Governor Clinton succeed as President."
Speaking of the message from Mr. Yeltsin, Mr. Clinton said he had received a "a very warm and somewhat lengthy" letter from the Russian President a few days ago, "following up on the communication we had about Start II and about President Bush going to Russia to sign the treaty."
Mr. Clinton said Mr. Yeltsin had "expressed his thanks for my support of the process and for what they're doing. And he asked me to meet pretty soon, either in Russia or in the United States or in some third country."
While saying he had not decided when and where that meeting would take place, Mr. Clinton stressed his eagerness about it. "I do look forward to meeting with him early," he said.
 
Sees 'Big Stake" in Reforms
 "And I do think he is genuinely committed to democracy and to a free and a more prosperous economy in Russia, and I do think the United States has a very big stake in the success of freedom and democracy there. I am very pleased at the progress that has led to the Start II success, and I appreciate the comments both he and President Bush have made facilitating this transition, and I look forward to working with him."
Mr. Clinton, who spoke to reporters in a quick and casual news conference on the airport tarmac, said he was also looking forward to a meeting early on in his administration with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, who also recently extended an invitation.
Mr. Clinton also spoke of his scheduled trip to Austin, Tex., this week to meet with President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico. He said that the meeting would be largely for getting acquainted with each other and that he did not expect to get into substantive discussions on the pending North American Free Trade Agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); 

PERSON: KELLY, MICHAEL; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



104 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN MOSCOW;
Remarks by Two Leaders: 'My Colleague and Friend, George'

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference today by President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin after they signed Start II, the second Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. An English-language transcript was provided by the White House.
 
YELTSIN'S STATEMENT
Today the Presidents of the two great powers, the United States and Russia, have signed a treaty on further radical cuts in strategic offensive arms of Russia and the United States, . . . 
 In its scale and importance, the treaty goes further than all other treaties ever signed in the field of disarmament. This treaty is the triumph for politicians and diplomats of Russia and the United States. It is also an achievement for all mankind and benefits all peoples of the earth. The Start II treaty becomes the core of the system of global security guarantees.

 	 	 		. . .	 	From the very outset, the new democratic Russian state has been pursuing a policy of building equal partnership with the United States. Today we have every right to say that relations between the two major powers have undergone a genuine revolution.

 	 	 		. . .	 	We open up real prospects for cooperation based on trust between people in military uniform, between people with military discipline and military thinking. Thus the Start II treaty will change and gradually replace the very psychology of confrontation.
At the same time as President and Supreme Commander in Chief, I can say with absolute certainty the signed treaty strengthens the security of Russia rather than weakens it. . . . President Bush can make a similar statement concerning the security of the United States.
The implementation of the new treaty will not be economically destructive for Russia. We have made our . . . calculations and they show that the proposed reductions would cost us much less than the mere maintenance of the nuclear weapons systems in a safe condition.

 	 	 		. . .	 	I would like to pay tribute to my colleague and friend, George. His remarkable personal and political qualities and competence have contributed to a successful transition from the cold war to a new world order.
I am grateful to him for all he has done to establish new relations between Russia and the United States, for his solidarity and support during the push for the Freedom Support Act, for the Start II treaty. Thank you, George.
I consider it of fundamental importance that the future President of the United States, Mr. Clinton, fully supported the conclusion of the Start II treaty. We can without delay proceed to the direct implementation of this instrument and consider further steps to strengthen global stability, the system of global protection and international security.
President Bush and I have maintained regular contacts with President-elect Clinton. Today's signing ceremony would not have taken place had there been the slightest reason to doubt his solidarity with our endeavors.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
BUSH'S STATEMENT
Today, the cold war is over.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 Mr. President, I salute you for your unwavering commitment to democratic reform and for the history you've written since the heroic day in August '91 when you climbed atop that tank to defend Russia's democratic destiny. And I also want to salute the heroism of the Russian people themselves, for it is they who will determine that Russia's democratic course is irreversible.
Today, as we meet on Russian soil, home to 1,000 years of heritage and history, to a people rich in scientific and creative talent, I want to assure the Russian people on behalf of all Americans, we understand that Russia faces a difficult passage. We are with you in your struggle to strengthen and secure democratic rights, to reform your economy, to bring to every Russian city and village a new sense of hope and the prospect of a future forever free.
Let me say clearly, we seek no special advantage from Russia's transformation. Yes, deep arms reductions, broader and deeper economic ties, expanded trade with Russia, all are in the interest of my country. But they're equally in the interest of the Russian people.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Questions and Answers
Q. Boris Nikolayevich, you have just signed the Start II treaty and you will have to ratify it in the Parliament. . . . What are in your view the prospects for the ratification of the treaty?
A. I am not going to conceal from you that a certain part of the deputies is against the treaty. And they are against anything positive that should take place in Russia. . . .
They -- you could consider what they are because they support Iraq and its aggression. So you understand who they represent. And finally, I would say that fortunately they are -- do not represent the majority of the Supreme Soviet, as most of the Supreme Soviet deputies believe in reason and, of course, they believe in the significance of this treaty. . . .
So if there are any difficulties with the ratification of the Start II treaty, still I am certain that the Supreme Soviet will ratify it.
Q. Mr. President, how confident are you the treaty that you're now going to be turning over to a new administration will be . . . ratified by the Senate? And, Mr. Yeltsin, I'd like to know your thoughts on how awkward is it for you to find yourself suddenly having to deal with a new President in Washington?
Bush. Clearly, I'm not in a position to commit President-elect Clinton, but I can confidently predict that this treaty will be quickly ratified by the Congress. And . . . I've talked to President-elect Clinton enough to know that he is most interested in keeping this United States-Russia relationship on the high plane in which it -- at which it stands right now.
And I've told President Yeltsin that I think he will enjoy working with Governor Clinton. . . .
Yeltsin. I met with President-elect Clinton . . . when Mr. Clinton at that time was a Presidential candidate. . . . He voiced his support for Russia, for the democratic reforms in Russia. . . .
Two days ago, I sent him a letter where I propose that there should be no lull in our relations with the new Administration because any lull in bilateral relations between the superpowers would give cause for concern.
I suggested on the phone to President Bush that after Jan. 20, we -- that is, myself and President-elect Clinton -- should meet . . . to consider different international problems and bilateral relations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



105 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: British Stand On Currency

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Prime Minister John Major called today for greater international cooperation to avoid the types of currency crises that plagued Britain last year. Mr. Major also said he saw no chance that Britain would soon rejoin Europe's system of linked currency rates any time soon.
In a television interview with the BBC, Mr. Major said monetary cooperation within the European Community might have to be reinforced by closer contact with other powerful world economies, like those of the United States and Japan.
Britain withdrew from the linked-currency system, the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, in September after speculative selling pressure increased against weaker currencies. That pressure came amid turmoil over ratification of the Maastricht treaty on closer European union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (67%); NETHERLANDS (59%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (67%); NETHERLANDS (59%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EURO (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (82%); 

PERSON: MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN) JOHN MAJOR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



106 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Markets at Year-End
The Dow Jones industrial average set a record for tranquillity in 1992, with the narrowest margin in history between high and low. For the first time since 1986, the Dow had no 100-point days. Yet individual stocks caromed around like overheated molecules. Onetime favorites like I.B.M. collapsed, and others that had seemed washed up, like Chrysler, made impressive gains. [Page D1.]
 Forecasts of lower long-term interest rates are less surprising than the reasons for such projections. Some forecasters are considering what was once unthinkable: a year of low inflation and credible efforts to reduce the Federal budget deficit. [D1.]
 Japan turned out to be the best-performing bond market for American investors last year, but not because of high yields. [D5.]
 
The Economy
Under pressure to select a prominent mainstream economist, President-elect Clinton has offered a seat on the Council of Economic Advisers to Alan Blinder, and Mr. Blinder is said to have accepted. The Princeton economist would serve under Laura D'Andrea Tyson, whose appointment has been criticized. [A1.]
 A record number of boycotts have been called against cities and states. A recent target, Colorado, may have lost $20 million in business since November, when voters approved a measure that prohibits special civil rights protection for homosexuals. [D1.]
 
International
A Berlin painter is living an inventor's dream come true: goo scraped from his truck removes graffiti almost instantly. [D1.]
 Germany's Economics Minister will resign. Jurgen W. Mollemann was caught up in a growing scandal over letters he had signed to help a cousin's business. [A3.]
 
The Media Business
As cable systems expand, figuring out what's on TV is becoming skilled labor. Several companies are competing to provide the next generation of electronic program guides. [A1.]
 People were reading newspapers last year in numbers large enough to suggest the reversal of a long readership slide. William Glaberson: Press Notes. [D12.]
 Acquisition of Hanna-Barbera's program library expanded a crucial asset of Turner Broadcasting: characters that can be marketed as everything from dolls to keychain images. [D12.]
 The Utne Reader has one of the best collections of alternative magazines, which it analyzes, excerpts and reprints. [D12.]
 The Cosmopolitan "girl" is a woman now. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
A trend toward ever-more-powerful patent claims may be reversing after a decade in which the balance of power shifted toward patent holders. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [D2.]
 The outlook for the securities industry is not so promising in 1993, after a year of record profits. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (50%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: HANNA-BARBERA (52%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); COLORADO, USA (50%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PATENTS (86%); BONDS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TRENDS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BOND MARKETS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); BOYCOTTS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); INTEREST RATES (56%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); NATIONAL DEBT (55%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



107 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Played a Key Role In Investors' Bond Return

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Japan turned out to be the best-performing bond market for American investors last year, but not because of high yields. The interest rate on that nation's 10-year bond is now around 4.5 percent, while the yield on the American 10-year Treasury note is 6.68 percent.
Rather, the return for Americans was enhanced as falling Japanese rates produced healthy capital gains, and the profits did not suffer from conversion into dollars, which remained steady against the yen. 
 For the year, the total return from the Japanese market in dollars and yen was 11.3 percent, according to The J. P. Morgan Bond Monitor, far better than the 7.3 percent return from American bonds.
The reverse was true for Europe. The dollar rallied there and ate into all of the gains as interest rates finally declined this fall.
To make matters worse, the dollar rose most in countries with bond markets that offered the highest and most enticing yields, turning nice gains in local currencies into losses. In these countries -- Britain, Italy and Spain -- the local currencies were undermined by the currency crisis in September and were devalued sharply as Italy and Britain pulled out of the European Monetary System and Spain remained in but devalued its peseta.
 
Italian Loss the Worst
 In Britain, an 18.8 percent gain in pounds -- the best performance of the year in local currencies -- was turned to a 3.9 percent loss for American investors. In Italy, a 10.2 percent local return was translated to a 14.4 percent loss in dollars, the worst performance for Americans among the 13 markets covered in the J. P. Morgan index. And in Spain, the 6.9 percent return to local investors became a 10.1 percent loss in terms of dollars.
The dollar rally also hurt in Sweden, which cut its indirect tie to the European Monetary System after speculators attacked its currency. The 12.1 percent gain in Swedish bonds became a 12.1 percent loss in dollars.
Investors in French and German bonds were also hurt by the dollar, but not so much. The 11.3 percent gain in French francs was whittled down to 4.6 percent while the return of 13.3 percent in German marks was sliced in half, to 6.2 percent. Germany provided the fourth-best return abroad for Americans; France was fifth.
Second best was the Netherlands, where a 16.5 percent local gain became a 9.5 percent return in dollars, and Belgium ranked third, with a 15.1 percent return at home that brought an 8.2 percent gain for Americans after the translation of Belgian francs back into the stronger dollar.
The Canadian bond market was also a disappointment because of the slump in the Canadian dollar. The translation back into American dollars turned a 9.4 percent gain into a loss of five-tenths of a percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SPAIN (93%); CANADA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); JAPAN (89%); GERMANY (87%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INVESTORS SALES GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN INVESTORS LIFE INSURANCE CO INC (92%); AMERICAN INVESTORS GROUP INC (92%); J P MORGAN CANADA (57%); J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); SPAIN (93%); CANADA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); JAPAN (89%); GERMANY (87%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTEREST RATES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); BONDS (93%); DEVALUATION (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); RANKINGS (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



108 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: The 'Can You Believe It' Outlook for Rates in '93

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Looking into 1993, the surprise is not that some analysts are forecasting a drop in long-term interest rates. The surprise is in their reasons.
Among traders, economists and investors, there is a willingness to believe in themes, like low inflation, and possibilities, like Democrats doing the right fiscal thing, that have not been credible in the past. 
 This means that some forecasters are including in their outlooks the prospect for what was normally unthinkable: a year of low inflation while the Government works in a credible way to reduce the record Federal budget deficit. With these oil- and-water events coming together, some forecasters see the 30-year bond interest rate falling under 7 percent, into territory it has not seen in decades. The bond ended 1992 at 7.39 percent.
"This is a little bit of wishful thinking," said Alan Sinai, chief economist at the Boston Company Economic Advisors. "But it is an intriguing wild card for 1993."
Mr. Sinai, a participant in President-elect Bill Clinton's economic teach-in last month, is giving the fall below 7 percent a probability of 20 to 25 percent in his forecast for this year. Just four years ago, when George Bush was elected to succeed Ronald Reagan, Mr. Sinai said he would have given such a forecast of deficit reduction and low inflation no more than a 5 percent probablility.
Elliott Platt, the director of economic research at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, is even more optimistic, arguing in his main forecast for the year that the Clinton Administration will have enough success in beginning to tame the deficit that the yield on the long bond should get down to 7 percent by midyear. He holds this view, he said, in part because he decided to ask what could go right this year rather than what could go wrong.
Mr. Platt acknowledges that his forecast is not in the mainstream, and Mr. Sinai says he still thinks that the more likely path for the yield on long bonds is ups and downs during the year but little change once 1993 is over. That would be a repeat of 1992.
Still, these themes are touching most forecasts for the year in some way, meaning there is a big change in thinking on Wall Street about inflation and the Democrats. This has already been positive for the market and is part of the reason that the price of the 30-year bond rallied after the election and the yield dropped from the 7.76 percent rate reached on Nov. 6.
But such views can be fragile, and that means the market this year could face a lot of volatility as each word and deed of the Clinton Administration is weighed to see if this unusual confidence is warranted and each inflation report is studied to see if this faith is misplaced. There will also be the test of whether the political gridlock of the last four years will dissolve to cooperation.
 
Inflation in the Forecast
 Joseph Liro, the chief economist at S. G. Warburg & Company, has the inflation theme in his forecast. He is betting that 2.75 percent inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, along with a slowing of the economy from the 3 percent-plus pace at the end of last year, will help pull the yield on the 30-year bond down to 7.20 percent by midyear.
But he suspects that faster economic growth by the end of the year will push the yield back close to where it is today, as a faster economy ignites a fear of higher inflation. And he is not ready to expect that a Democrat in the White House can work out what he calls "ironclad" deficit reduction with the Democrats in Congress.
"I have more confidence in the inflation story than the new Administration," he said.
But traders and investors all over Wall Street still seem to have a lot more confidence in the new Administration than would have been expected. And many seem to have converted to the newest theory about the Clinton Administration.
Just before the election, interest rates rose after a strong summer rally because of fear that a Clinton Administration would try to stimulate the economy, go too far and jack up the Federal budget deficit and get prices rising again.
 
View Fostered by Clinton
 But now there seems to be an accepted wisdom that says that if the economy shows it is growing well enough on its own, the new Administration will apply much less fiscal stimulus. It is a view that Mr. Clinton and his aides have fostered. But the fact that bond market players -- who are supposed to be the anti-inflation and deficit vigilantes -- are accepting it is a noticeable turn of events on Wall Street.
"This is a very pragmatic Administration driven more by information input than doctrine and dogma," said Mr. Sinai, summing up the view of many when he explained his confidence. "It is an Administration that can change its mind based on information."
A big drop in the yield on the 30-year bond would be quite a change from last year.
While there were sharp ups and downs during 1992 -- from the high of 8.10 percent on April 27 to the low of 7.21 percent on Sept. 8 -- the yield on the 30-year bond wound up at 7.39 percent at the end of last year, the same yield as the year before despite the two big cuts in interest rates by the Federal Reserve, one just before Christmas 1991 and the other in July. And there has not been much more change over the last three years. The yield on the 30-year bond was 7.97 percent at the end of 1989.
Except for the drop in short-term interest rates last year, which touched 30-year lows in the fall, there was also little change elsewhere along the line of Treasury maturities, except for the two-year note.
 
3.07 Percent at Year's End
 The discount rate on the three-month bill ended the year at 3.07 percent, down from 3.84 percent a year ago but above its 2.58 percent low for the year in early October. The yield on the 10-year note, which fell as low as 6.21 percent on Oct. 5, ended the year at 6.68 percent, 2 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, below the 6.70 at the end of 1991. And the yield on the five-year Treasury note, which saw a high of 7.13 percent in March and a low of 5.16 percent in October, ended the year at 6.03 percent, 10 basis points above 1991's close of 5.93 percent.
The basic ingredients of the outlook for 1993 are these:
The economy will continue to grow, but only at a moderate pace. One reason is that companies like I.B.M. and General Motors will still be facing problems of slow sales and too much debt. Cutting costs will mean more layoffs. In addition, individuals will still be trying to pare their debt, which will curb spending. The recessions in Europe and Japan will also curtail growth here as American exporters sell less abroad.
Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, will stay in the 2 to 3 percent range. Unit labor costs are very low, and the Commodity Research Bureau index is not signalling any bad news on prices.
The Federal Reserve Board will not cut short-term interest rates any further. But it is also not likely to feel the need to raise them until well into the year.
The new Administration, many of the forecasts assume, will go easy on fiscal stimulus and will focus on cutting the deficit, beginning with the 1994 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
 
A Debatable Point
 The Administration might decide to reduce the number of 30-year bonds the Treasury sells as a way to lower the cost of borrowing. Whether there would actually be savings by shifting borrowing to shorter maturities that have lower interest rates is debatable. But a cut in the $10 billion or so of 30-year bonds that have been sold each quarter recently could help hold prices up and yields down, analysts contend.
These basics, which exclude a successful drive to bring down the deficit, produce forecasts that have the yield of the 30-year bond falling a little -- to around 7.25 percent -- to ending the year little changed. The real differences are in the pattern for the year. Some forecasts, like Mr. Liro's, are "U" shaped, with the yield falling close to 7 percent on slower growth and low inflation in the first half of the year while rising again at year's end as the economy picks up some speed.
Others are arched, with yields rising early in the year as the bond market confronts the reality of Mr. Clinton as President and the difficulty of getting things done. But as the year progresses, the economy continues to grow only moderately and the inflation story takes deeper root and the yield on the long bond comes down close to 7 percent.
There is more uniformity on short-term interest rates, which are expected to rise slightly. The timing depends on when the Federal Reserve finally decides it has to prove its anti-inflation mettle again by raising its Federal funds rate.
Together, this produces what traders call a flattening yield curve. That happens when the difference between the yield on the 30-year bond and the 2-year Treasury note narrows. This spread reached a record high of nearly 370 basis points this year but ended the year at 284 basis points, 31 basis points above last year's finish of 254.

GRAPHIC: Tables: Chart of 30-year and 3-month Treasury bills over three-year period 1989-to-1992 (Source: Datastream); Chart of long-term rates from July to December 1992; Chart of short-term rates from July to December 1992 (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (69%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTEREST RATES; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



109 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: STRICLY BUSINESS;
How the Music Stopped For the Record Hunter

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
People still meander up to the entrance of the Record Hunter on Fifth Avenue between 42d and 43d Streets. They pause before the locked door, and some notice a scrawled sign saying that mail-forwarding forms have been sent to the postmaster. A few read a photocopied statement in the window telling of the financial tailspin of a store beloved by fans of jazz and classical music.
Posted 11 days before Christmas, it tells of overexpanding during a bitter recession that has seen a drop-off in sales of all types of recordings, of mounting losses and shrinking inventories. It speaks of the sadness of closing after 47 years. It ends with a wish: "May you always keep the sound of music alive." 
 Last week, Jay Sonin, the president and owner of the Record Hunter, was inside doing the grim work of taking his final inventory, making sure his final tax bill would be paid and answering the endlessly ringing phone. He wore a sweatshirt and blue jeans and smoked lots of cigarettes. What he seemed to cling to, beneath the numbness, was a bittersweet pride.
"On a per-square-foot basis, we did more business than any record store in the world," he declared. "Every single record company told me that over the years."
 
'Your Last at Bat'
 Mr. Sonin, who is 52 years old and uncertain what he will do next, said without emotion that only his failure, not his years of success, would be remembered. "In life people remember your last at bat," he said.
Perhaps not. "What a tragedy," said George Volckening of Qualiton Imports, an importer of classical records. "To me, it's part of history."
"It was the last of the major mom-and-pop operations," said Larry Palmacci, vice president of sales and marketing for Esquire Records Inc.
Customers particularly share the distress. "I'm really sad," said Irene Soja, a secretary. And Harold Chester, a medical journal editor, said, "It had a certain character to it that the larger franchise stores don't have."
Mr. Sonin's father was in the jukebox business and he himself began working in record stores at age 16. "The only thing to do was get in trouble or go to work," he said of the opportunities in the Brooklyn of his adolescence. "I worked hard."
He worked for wholesalers, for department stores, for the record department of a sporting-goods store.
 
His First Record Store
 By 1964, he had accumulated enough money and experience to buy his first record store, World of Music on Lexington Avenue between 47th and 48th Streets. It amounted to 600 square feet of opportunity. He did well, and in 1973 a credit manager for a major record company asked if he was interesting in expanding. The Record Hunter was for sale.
It was something of an august institution, having opened in 1945, and for years it occupied a spot a few doors down from Carnegie Hall, with opera stars among its customers. But the founder had died, and his wife and son were having a difficult go at the Fifth Avenue location. Creditors were soliciting bids for a replacement.
Mr. Sonin beat out a now-defunct chain of record stores called King Karol. He paid $65,000 for the name, the mailing list, fixtures and the remaining 28 months on the lease. In 1976, he signed his own 15-year lease: $90,000 a year for 7,400 square feet.
"It wasn't an excellent deal," he said. "I made it an excellent deal."
What he did was move forward the storefront, which had been recessed from the building line, to make more space. He created a candy store from a vestibule and rented it. In the store's rear, he made space for an audio-visual department and rented that. His own rent cost was cut in half.
Things went well. He hired a knowledgeable sales staff, many of whom were musicians or music students. He concentrated on classical music, which became 45 percent of his business, compared with maybe 3 or 4 percent for most record stores. Pop was available, but not emphasized -- both because of the image Mr. Sonin desired and because the profit margin was less than on specially ordered classical recordings.
"You don't have to be a genius to sell the Rolling Stones," he said.
 
Big Jump in Lease
 Things started to go wrong in 1989, when Mr. Sonin began to have discussions about renewing his lease in 1991. His landlord wanted $450,000 a year, more than four times what he was paying. He didn't see how he could go above $250,000 and began scouting for another location.
He found one at Broadway and 19th Street, a lively shopping and entertainment area. He spent almost $700,000 to renovate the store. Then one thing after another went wrong.
It took 11 months for the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission to approve his plans. His lease turned out to be for six years rather than the 17 he thought he had negotiated. But Mr. Sonin finally opened there in October 1990.
Though he had expected not to make money at first, he was staggered by his losses. His large advertising expenditures, live bands and sweeping searchlights made no difference. People were just buying fewer records. "People who used to come in and buy four or five compact disks were buying one or two," he said. "And people who bought one or two just weren't coming in."
He was experiencing firsthand an overall trend in the industry. In 1991, the number of all types of recordings sold fell to 801 million from 865.7 million in 1990, the Recording Industry Association of America reported. This year is up only slightly.
 
'A Discretionary Item'
 "A lot of people are out of work, and a lot are afraid of becoming out of work," Mr. Sonin said. "This is a discretionary item."
Pressures mounted as some creditors demanded cash before delivery. The record companies, which pay most of the cost of record store advertisments, became reluctant to do so. Republic National Bank, Record Hunter's major secured creditor, sued for the money owed it.
"Frankly I had no defense," Mr. Sonin said. "I had no money."
The Record Hunter filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Feb. 12, 1992. The creditors committee quickly demanded that it dispose of the money-losing store and try to shore up the Fifth Avenue store.
But even though the uptown store had weathered other recessions, it now faltered too. The record companies' unwillingness to pay for ads stung deeply, but the worst thing was the inability to get merchandise on credit. Saying no to treasured customers became the order of the day as holiday inventories shrank to $200,000 from a normal $1.5 million.
A useless irony is that his Fifth Avenue landlord in 1991 lowered the rent enough to have made his disastrous move downtown unnecessary. Mr. Sonin cut staff and hours and did all the other things a businessman does when his back is to the wall.
"Right up until the end," he said, "I had hopes of turning it around."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jay Sonin, the president and owner of the Record Hunter, which had to close its doors on Fifth Avenue 11 days before Christmas. "On a per-square-foot basis, we did more business than any record store in the world," he declared. "Every single record company told me that over the years." (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RECORD HUNTER

ORGANIZATION: RECORD HUNTER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MUSIC STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (78%); FRANCHISING (76%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (71%); INVENTORIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: SONIN, JAY; MARTIN, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



110 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Blue Cross Rates Pose Peril to Small Businesses

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Already hit hard by the recession, tens of thousands of small businesses in New York State face a heavy new burden in 1993: immediate increases of up to 22.5 percent in the cost of health insurance for employees covered by Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield. For many, it will be the last straw.
Coming atop other large rate increases in recent years in a system many believe has spiraled out of control, the new rates for small groups and their families -- 650,000 people, mostly employed in some 50,000 small businesses in 28 counties in the state's eastern half -- offer a choice of evils for many New Yorkers. 
 Unable to absorb the higher costs and wary of raising prices in competitive local markets, many small businesses operating on close margins are expected to cut or drop coverage for employees, while others will insist workers pay all or part of the increases if they want to continue coverage.
 
'Going to Be Devastating'
 Interviews with business leaders, insurance experts and owners and employees of small businesses in recent days suggest that the impact will be widespread and painful. For thousands already struggling to make ends meet, it could mean sharp reductions, or a total loss, of medical and hospital benefits.
"This is going to be devastating," said Bob Jaffe, director of New Yorkers for Accessible Health Coverage, a coalition of 35 voluntary health groups that advocate reforms in medical care and insurance in New York. "It could force small businesses in a difficult economy to abandon health coverage for their employees altogether."
As many as 200,000 people covered under individual and small-group policies, Mr. Jaffe said, could be priced out of the market and lose coverage because of the increases, swelling the number of uninsured New Yorkers to 2.3 million.
No one knows how many more workers in small businesses will face cuts in their health coverage as the rates go up, but insurance experts and business executives said hard economic times made it virtually certain that hundreds of employers and thousands of employees would be unable to afford the better, more expensive plans.
It was not difficult over the weekend to find confirmation. An East Side optician, who insisted on anonymity, said he probably would have to cancel the coverage he provides for four employees. "People are just going to be dropping out," he said.
While Empire's new bills have not yet gone out, emotional reactions to the new rates seemed to run high. "We are very angry," said Agotha Louis, owner of the Skyline Restaurant, a coffee shop on Lexington Avenue at East 75th Street. "I am so many years paying for that insurance. I'm not going to pay all those thousands."
Among owners and employees of restaurants, groceries, pharmacies, clothiers and other small businesses covered by Empire, distress has been almost palpable since Thursday, when the Cuomo administration, saying it had no choice if the state's health insurer of last resort was to survive, approved rate rises averaging 25.5 percent for 1.4 million individual and small-group subscribers.
The consumers hit hardest by the increases will be 640,000 individuals who buy their insurance directly, rather than as part of a group, and who purchase policies providing major medical coverage and Medicare supplemental coverage, known as Medigap. Some will see their rates go up by 59 percent.
In small groups, Empire says its rates for the most comprehensive major medical family plans are rising 22.5 percent, to $627.95 a month from $512.30; family plans for hospital and basic medical services are going up 19.2 percent, to $251.35 a month from $210.85, while hospital-only coverage for families will rise only 2.7 percent, to $178.35 from $173.70. Rates for less costly coverage of individuals in small groups are going up by comparable percentages.
As the increases took effect on Friday, officials still hoped part of them might be rolled back if Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the Legislature can agree on a state bailout for Blue Cross, which by law must insure all seeking coverage regardless of age or health. But even with an agreement, steep increases are in store for thousands.
Mark Alesse, state director of the National Federation of Independent Businesses, which represents 600,000 small businesses in the nation and 32,000 in New York, predicted a wide range of responses to the new rates. "Those in better shape will absorb the costs," he said. "Others will pass the costs on to their workers or share it with the workers, and some will cut back and give fewer employees coverage or cut back and give no employees coverage."
Most small businesses caught in the economic squeeze probably will not have the option of passing the higher costs on to consumers, Mr. Alesse said. Unlike large corporations, small businesses do not control their markets, and owners know they lose business to local competitors when they raise prices.
"Mom-and-pop stores can't readily pass on costs like that to customers," he said. "They are stuck with the difficult decision of absorbing the costs or passing them on to workers already under a lot of pressure."
Not everyone agreed. Carlos Martinez, the owner of La Estrella Auto Parts, a repair shop on Amsterdam Avenue near 83d Street, who covers himself but not his employees under a Blue Cross policy, said he would raise his prices to pay the higher premiums, just as he did to pay rent increases. "When you want to get more money, you have to raise prices a dollar here, a dollar there," he said.
Most small businesses are expected to pass on all or part of the costs to employees. Since few employees in small businesses are unionized, they will have little say, other than the options of paying, taking less costly coverage or dropping it altogether.
As Mr. Alesse noted, many workers already bear a heavy share of health insurance premiums that have risen 10 to 15 percent a year recently. Moreover, there will be no immediate refuge for most employees in other insurance companies.
In recent years, as insurance costs have risen and consumers have shopped for the best deals, younger and healthier people have found lower rates with commercial insurers -- those that by law may accept or reject applicants on the basis of age, health, occupation or other factors -- and the process has tended to leave Empire Blue Cross with high-risk clients whose health needs are costly and who would not be welcomed by other insurers.
That situation, which Blue Cross calls a gross competitive disadvantage that has brought it to the brink of bankruptcy, is to change in April, when a new state law takes effect requiring all insurance companies to accept applicants equally. It is expected to assure Blue Cross's long-term solvency. But it is unclear how it will affect rates or consumers who want better coverage at lower prices.
In coming months, less obvious effects of the rate increases could arise, business experts say. As the job market improves, some businesses may see valued longtime employees who have lost part or all of their health insurance depart for other jobs, where they can get the benefits.
For the most marginal businesses or those already losing money and facing bankruptcy, experts say, the rate increases could prompt layoffs.
At the Last Pharmacy, at Amsterdam Avenue and 79th Street, Paul Zausner, a pharmacist, and Angelo Colon, an assistant manager, said the rate increases would probably generate a ripple effect on their business, which employs eight people and fills prescriptions for many people covered by Empire Blue Cross.
"There will be a lessening of prescriptions because people will drop their policies -- and believe me, they will," Mr. Zausner said. And Mr. Colon noted that with fewer prescriptions being filled, "one or two workers here might have to be laid off."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unlike many small-business owners, Carlos Martinez, who owns La Estrella Auto Parts on Amsterdam Avenue near 83d Street, said he would raise his prices to pay the new higher premiums for Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield coverage. (ith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; RATES; SMALL BUSINESS INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RESTAURANTS (62%); PHARMACIES (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



111 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
BILINGUAL EDUCATION 20 YEARS LATER 
 Two decades after bilingual education was introduced into the New York City school system, its overall effectiveness is still a matter of much debate. Champions of bilingual education assert that teaching immigrant children in their native tongues is essential to their progress. But critics say the program has developed serious flaws, like a testing process that sweeps children into the program who do not belong there, and they say that it keeps too many children in bilingual classes through elementary school and too often exposes them to teachers who themselves struggle with English. A1.
 
DINKINS TO URGE EXPANDED LIBRARY HOURS
Mayor Dinkins will propose in his State of the City Message that service at all 205 branches of New York City's three public library systems be extended to six days a week for the first time since 1947. The initiative, which would draw up to $15 million from the 1994 fiscal budget if approved, would be completed by September, officials say. B3.
 
A SPOTLIGHT ON CHILDREN AND BUSINESS
Mayor Dinkins's State of the City speech promises to address two related themes: the welfare of children, who represent the city's future, and the plight of small businesses, which are taxed to subsidize the growing proportion of New Yorkers who cannot afford to pay for municipal services. Yet any agenda that neglects the consequences of guns and drugs can only marginally improve the lot of children or of small businesses in New York. Metro Matters, B3.
 
RECESSION HELPS SHUT A MIDTOWN FIXTURE
People still meander up to the entrance of the Record Hunter on Fifth Avenue between 42d and 43d Streets. They pause before the locked door, and some notice a scrawled sign saying that mail-forwarding forms have been sent to the postmaster. A few read a photocopied statement in the window telling of the financial tailspin of a store beloved by fans of jazz and classical music. Posted 11 days before Christmas, it tells of overexpanding during a bitter recession that has seen a drop-off in sales of all types of recordings, of mounting losses and shrinking inventories. It speaks of the sadness of closing after 47 years. Strictly Business, B3.
 
REGION
 
UNLIKELY ALLIES IN NEW JERSEY
Mindful of a presidential race in which voters weary of governmental gridlock turned against a seemingly invincible George Bush, and facing an election in 11 months, Governor Florio and Republican legislative leaders in New Jersey begin the new year as uneasy and unlikely allies. After protracted battles over spending, taxes, education and insurance, the Democratic Governor and the Republican leaders reached compromises on several major issues in the last months of 1992. Driven in part by political expediency, both sides are expected to continue their cooperation this year. B6.
 
A GRIDLOCK ALERT YEAR
In the coming year, a fresh portfolio of traffic-causing projects will get under way in New York City, giving the driver who is concerned about timely travel plenty to fret about. B8.
 
DELAY IN WACHTLER PROCEEDINGS
Sol Wachtler, the former Chief Judge of the New York State Court of Appeals, has requested a new delay in court proceedings stemming from his November arrest on harassment and extortion charges, arguing that he needs more time for "medical testing and treatment." A Federal prosecutor endorsed the request to delay a hearing scheduled for Wednesday until Feb. 5, and Federal Magistrate Stanley R. Chesler is likely to approve the motion, defense lawyers say. B6.
 
LAND EVERYWHERE, BUT AT A PRICE
In Connecticut, a state of rolling hills and farms embedded into the countryside as if they'd sprouted there, Jim Hunter is having a hard time scaring up two acres of farmland. All he wants is a place to sit in the dirt and write his thoughts, to plant enough vegetables to carry him through the winter, and to someday leave to his grandchildren. Mr. Hunter is more than willing to pay for his plot. He has $20,000 to spend, but these days that doesn't seem to go very far. When he asked some Litchfield real-estate agents for advice, they gently suggested he was living in another place and time. Milford Journal, B6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BILINGUAL EDUCATION (94%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); LIBRARIES (69%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); JAZZ & BLUES (61%); CHRISTMAS (61%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



112 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Market Place

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:
THE securities industry enjoyed record profits in 1992, but as the new year's trading begins, the outlook is not so promising. Many securities analysts are forecasting lower 1993 earnings for the public brokerage and investment banking firms.
While last year's final totals are not in yet, member firms of the New York Stock Exchange that deal with the public probably reached highs in pretax profits, with estimates ranging to as much as a total $7 billion. That compares with $5.9 billion the previous year. For 1992's first nine months alone, pretax profits grew to $5 billion from $4 billion in the year-earlier period. 
 But such gains are likely to be more difficult in 1993. "I don't think we'll see much change in the stock price of brokers unless we get a blowup in the market," said Perrin H. Long Jr., director of equity research of the First of Michigan Corporation in Detroit. "And I don't think the market as a whole will be higher at the end of 1993 than it was on Dec. 31, 1992."
The brokerage stocks enjoyed a good fourth quarter in 1992, after a dismal performance in the corresponding 1991 period. Retail activity rebounded, led by a surge in smaller issues, and equity underwriting bounced back from lower levels in the third quarter. Nevertheless, the industry is unlikely to repeat the numbers notched in 1992.
Guy Moszkowski, brokerage industry analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, noted: "On the surface, the trends are still attractive for 1993. But most of the sources of revenue are cyclical and depend on the demand for securities by consumers. The retail investor by and large seeks safety, not risk, and if interest rates stop falling, the momentum to cash in certificates of deposit and money market funds goes away."
These factors and others will undoubtedly affect the earnings of securities firms for the coming year. Anticipated 1993 earnings per share, as projected by security analysts that follow Wall Street's retail-oriented concerns, are generally lower than the 1992 results, which remain estimates until the fourth-quarter figures are actually reported.
"We think a better economy in 1993 should bring higher short-term rates, which would reduce trading profits and issuance of new debt -- and probably slow down issuance of equities," said James P. Hanbury, a securities analyst for Wertheim Schroder & Company. "That's the basic business of the brokerage industry. And therefore revenues will be about 10 percent below last year and earnings will go down, although not by too much."
Among the forecasts of Merrill Lynch & Company's per-share earnings for 1993 are $6.50 by Mr. Moszkowski and Mr. Hanbury and $7.50 to $7.75 by Dean Eberling at Lehman Brothers. Merrill Lynch earned $8.25 to $8.65 a share last year, the analysts estimate.
Earnings of Paine Webber, another big retail broker, are also expected to fall in 1993. Projections include $2.70 a share by Mr. Hanbury, $2.95 to $3.05 by Mr. Eberling and $3 by Mr. Moszkowski. For 1992, the analysts say, Paine Webber earned $3.50 to $3.65 a share.
Looking at the Charles Schwab Corporation's earnings per share in 1993, Mr. Moszkowski expects them to come in at $1.70, Mr. Long at $1.80 and Mr. Eberling at $1.95. Their 1992 consensus estimate, however, is $1.85 to $2 a share.
As Mr. Hanbury sees it: "If the real economy gets better this year, brokers will do less well than companies that make things. My guess is that over all, their earnings will be down 15 to 20 percent."
On Thursday, the last trading day of 1992, the stocks of two of the three big securities firm declined. Merrill Lynch fell 75 cents, to $59.50, and Charles Schwab fell 50 cents, to $26.125; Paine Webber rose 12.5 cents, to $24.375.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (85%); MER (NYSE) (85%); 8675 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); FIRST OF MICHIGAN CORP (69%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%); SCHRODER & CO INC (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; FORECASTS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



113 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
In the Speech by the Mayor, the Message Will be in the Margins

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
WHAT is the state of a city that allowed a 5-month-old boy to die of neglect, despite warnings, and a Bronx storekeeper to be gunned down defending his family?
Mayor David N. Dinkins's State of the City speech today promises to address two related themes: the welfare of children, who represent the city's future, and the plight of small businesses, which are taxed to subsidize the growing proportion of New Yorkers who cannot afford to pay for municipal services. Yet any agenda that neglects the consequences of guns and drugs can only marginally improve the lot of children or of small businesses in New York. 
 What's a mayor to do? He commands an army of police officers larger than the American force in Somalia, but he lacks the jurisdiction or the mandate to disarm neighborhood warlords. He inherits social problems that are national in scope, but he has to cope at the sufferance of Washington, which has been insensitive, and of Albany, which has been insufficiently responsive (though, as the city's first black Mayor, he has largely escaped blame for publicized cases of child abuse that would certainly have provoked deeper outrage against a white Mayor).
After finishing his first year as Mayor, Mr. Dinkins acknowledged that his discretion had been limited largely to reshaping about two-tenths of one percent of the city's nearly $30 billion budget. "It may be that you affect things at the margins," he said then, "but when things get tight, the margins matter a hell of a lot."
The Dinkins administration has often said that good government is the best politics. That theme is likely to echo in the speech Mr. Dinkins is to deliver today as he begins a mayoral-election year that, coupled with races for local school boards and the first full terms on the expanded City Council, holds the prospect of being as divisive as the last mayoral election appeared to be unifying.
Despite the administration's boast that New York is "roaring" back, Mr. Dinkins will temper expectations by reminding his constituents that the recession continues to inhibit him from providing all the services he promised. Still, he will recite a scorecard of promises made and kept and his vision of those that remain to be redeemed.
His highest priority is to balance the budget. If he has failed so far to achieve fundamental restructuring -- last year's buzzword of government reform -- then he has, at least, avoided the early threat of a state takeover of the city's fiscal prerogatives, defied many skeptics and even won the public praise of some others.
To most New Yorkers, though, a balanced budget is a bulky abstraction. So, while accepting credit for what some people view as an accomplishment and others consider a basic duty, Mr. Dinkins will focus instead on more widely appreciated matters. Despite the toll that the recession has taken on tax revenues, he will recall, his administration began decentralizing government services to deliver them more visibly and, presumably, more effectively -- often in conjunction with a Council that he has begun, if begrudgingly, to accept as a full partner.
First, the administration dramatically expanded community policing as a strategy and started providing the manpower to achieve it. Whether modest declines in recorded crime are attributable to that strategy is arguable. What's certain is that if crime had increased, the Mayor would have gotten the blame.
Responding to state prodding, the city is expanding health-care services at the neighborhood level through a growing program called Communicare. Mr. Dinkins also plans to nearly double the number of so-called beacon schools, which remain open longer and also provide children and their parents with a range of social services. Also, he hopes to find enough funds to let branch libraries open six days a weeks for the first time in decades.
Mr. Dinkins also is proposing to reduce some of the impediments to small businesses, which are not only synonymous with middle-class entrepreneurship but also can create entry-level jobs for the rest of his constituents. Expect some exemptions on commercial-rent taxes and some constraints on ticketing for minor violations.
Expressing hope for the future, the Mayor will hark back to a productive partnership between the city's first Italian-American Mayor, Fiorello H. La Guardia, and a new administration in Washington that helped lift New York City out of the depression by doling out New Deal largess.
The analogy may not be apt. La Guardia benefited, in part, because the Roosevelt Administration preferred him to the Democratic organization controlled by Tammany Hall. And four decades later, when Mayor Abraham D. Beame was seeking a second term, his early support for Jimmy Carter was not returned in kind.
Still, the Clinton Administration and its cast of New Yorkers has the potential to help the Mayor whose political career has been built on surpassing low expectations. Mr. Dinkins was asked once whether his election would raise false hopes that he could never fulfill. Perhaps, he replied, but false hope is better than no hope at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MAYORS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



114 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Boycotts Affect Travel Industry

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
At one time, choosing a travel destination involved little more than deciding where to go, how much to spend and the availability of reservations. These days, though, many travelers must also consider whether their destination meets with the approval of family, friends or business colleagues.
Disputes over sexual orientation, reproductive rights, racial slights and other social and environmental issues have spread far beyond the courts and legislative chambers and now involve a record number of boycotts against cities and states. 
 At least 12 destinations are currently targets of boycotts, said Tim Muck, executive director of the Institute for Consumer Responsibility, a Seattle organization that publishes National Boycott News. Boycotts were recently lifted by various groups against Alaska and Arizona, leaving as the prime targets Colorado, Utah and Louisiana, as well as Dade County in Florida.
"Exact numbers are difficult to track with precision," Mr. Muck said, "because some of the groups calling for boycotts are local or small and some of the issues are narrowly focused."
The Professional Convention Management Association, for instance, refused to hold meetings in New York, protesting the city's tax, equivalent to 21.25 percent, on hotel rooms that rent for more than $100 a night.
For the targets of boycotts, the financial stakes are enormous.
Travel and tourism in the United States amounted to more than $360 billion in 1991, according to the United States Travel Data Center, and accounted for almost six million jobs -- more than any retail industry except automobile dealers and food stores. It is the No. 1 industry in 13 states; second or third in 24 others.
For instance, it is estimated that Colorado has lost $20 million in meetings and convention business since November, when voters approved a constitutional amendment that prohibits special civil rights protection for homosexuals. The amendment will also void existing jobs and housing protection for gay men and lesbians in Aspen, Boulder and Denver and job-protection guarantees for state employees. It will bar other localities from passing such measures.
In protest, New York, Philadelphia and Atlanta are among cities that have forbidden their officials to travel to Colorado on business and the National Conference of Mayors canceled a planned meeting.
 
 
'Harder to Know'
 "With so many issues riling so many people," said Sharon Rooney, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau, "it's getting harder and harder to know where to travel on business and pleasure."
The boycotts sometimes work.
Alaska backed down from its plan to kill hundreds of wolves after environmentalists announced a boycott. The 200,000-member Fund for Animals ran newspaper ads asking sympathizers to contact Gov. Walter Hickel "and tell him you won't spend a dime in a state that doesn't give a damn about wolves." At least 7,500 people responded.
Connel Murray, the director of the Alaska Division of Tourism, denounced the fund's newspaper advertisements as "the moral equivalent of a ransom note." But with 20,000 jobs tied directly to its $1 billion tourist industry, Alaska abandoned its wolf-killing plan, and the boycott was lifted.
"Boycotts are sometimes an effective way of making a statement, because you can usually measure the response accurately and quickly," said John Hunt, professor and head of the department of resource recreation and tourism at the University of Idaho.
But many tourism officials contend that boycotts are the wrong way to seek redress for grievances because they hurt businesses and force the layoff of workers who might share the viewpoint of the boycotters.
 
'Hurting Innocent People'
 "Instead of hurting innocent people, wouldn't it be better to put that same power and energy into working within the system to change things?" asked Edward R. Book, president of the nonprofit Travel Industry Association of America, whose 2,000 members include many of the leading destinations, hotels, airlines and travel agencies.
Mr. Book is especially critical of the boycott of Colorado. "Denver, Aspen and Boulder voted nearly 2 to 1 against" the amendment "and they filed legal challenges," Mr. Book said. Because all three communities had ordinances upholding civil rights protections for homosexuals, their suit in Federal court contends that the recent measure violates the equal-protection clause of the Constitution.
"So boycotting Colorado," Mr. Book said, "means harming the people there who don't agree with the vote."
Indeed, the Aspen Gay and Lesbian Community opposes the boycott and still plans to hold its Gay Ski Week this month.
Similarly, the City of Miami Beach believes it is being unjustly punished for the actions of Greater Miami, where the City Commission rescinded a proclamation welcoming Nelson Mandela in 1990 and five mayors from the region criticized the anti-apartheid leader for not denouncing human rights abuses in Cuba.
For more than two years, a black group in Florida called Boycott Miami: Coalition for Progress has urged a boycott of hotels and other tourist attractions, joined by the local National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, although not by the local Urban League.
After the boycott had cost Greater Miami an estimated total of $20 million in direct spending by visitors, and up to $50 million indirectly, Miami Beach adopted a holiday to honor the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and awarded Mr. Mandela a medal in September.
"We did it because the black community felt respect for Mandela and they were entitled to that respect," Seymour Gelber, the Mayor of Miami Beach, said. "And we have borne the brunt of the boycott, because we're the center of the tourism industry in the county."
But the boycott against Miami Beach remains, as part of the larger boycott against Miami and Dade County, and Mayor Gelber regards that as unjust.
"Boycotts are based on the fact that some people have treated other people unfairly, and now we're treated that way," he said. "People have to act fairly to each other whether they are in the minority or majority."
 
An Opposite Tack
 While shunning certain places is a common protest strategy, the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty takes the opposite tack.
"We almost always hold our annual conference in states with the death penalty," said Leigh Dingerson, the executive director, "in order to allow our members to demonstrate or protest against it."
For states and cities, the economic impact of a given action is often hard to assess. For instance, a survey commissioned for Utah's Economic Development Office found that 8 percent of respondents said abortion legislation would influence them not to vacation in Utah and 6 percent said they would be more likely to vacation there.
"The remaining 86 percent said it didn't make any difference," said Rick Davis, president of the Salt Lake Convention and Visitors Bureau, "so we concluded it wasn't worth the money for the promotional effort to persuade people we are a good vacation destination despite our abortion law."
Louisiana's strict anti-abortion law, adopted in 1991, put that state in the midst of controversy, as did the 1991 gubernatorial candidacy of David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader.
A Duke victory could have cost Louisiana $1.2 billion in new investment and $600 million in convention and tourism business, said Tim Ryan, an economist at the University of New Orleans.
Beverly Gianna, the public relations director of the Greater New Orleans Tourist and Convention Commission, said the anti-abortion law had cost the city about $116 million from 17 canceled meetings. In addition, she said, the Modern Language Association, which met in New Orleans in 1988, decided not to hold another meeting there because New Orleans still had "a statute against sodomy."
 
Arizona's Loss
 Arizona, where tourism accounts for 96,000 jobs, knows first hand how devastating a boycott can be. After voters in 1990 rejected a state holiday to honor Dr. King "we lost 166 conventions worth $190 million," said Tony Alba, a spokesman for the Phoenix and Valley of the Sun Convention and Visitors Bureau. That includes the 1993 Super Bowl, which had been scheduled for suburban Tempe.
In November, after intense lobbying by the state's business and tourist industry leadership, Arizona voters approved the holiday.
"The day after the election we sent letters to every group that canceled or would not sign contracts, letting them know the state voted for the holiday," Mr. Alba said. "Even before the letters went out we had calls from some meeting planners saying they're ready to come. So we expect to regain the lost business in 1994, but right now we're still feeling the brunt."


GRAPHIC: 
 
Place: Alaska
Boycotted By: Wolf Action Group Fund for Animals
Reason: State proposed to shoot wolves from helicopters. State later canceled plan and boycott was ended.
 
Place: Arizona
Boycotted By: Boycott led by N.F.L.'s decision not to hold 1993 Super Bowl in Tempe, Ariz.
Reason: Voters rejected a state holiday to honor Martin Luther King in 1990. Approved last month.
 
Place: Colorado
Boycotted By: Boycott Colorado
Reason: State repealed law in November barring discrimination against homosexuals.
 
Place: Louisiana, Utah
Boycotted By: National Planning & Reproductive Health Association
Reason: Anti-abortion laws.
 
Place: Greater Miami
Boycotted By: Boycott Miami: Coalition for Progress
Reason: Miami City Commission rescinded Miami proclamation welcoming Nelson Mandela in 1990.
 
Place: New York City
Boycotted By: Professional Convention Management Association
Reason: City's tax, equalivent to 21.25%, on hotel rooms costing more than $100 a night.
(Source: National Boycott News) (pg. D3)
Chart: 'Staying Away' -- Cities and states that have been boycotted by various organizations and the reasons for the boycotts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROFESSIONAL CONVENTION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (82%); FUND FOR ANIMALS (59%); FUND FOR ANIMALS (59%); US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (54%); US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROFESSIONAL CONVENTION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (82%); FUND FOR ANIMALS (59%); FUND FOR ANIMALS (59%); US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (54%); US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; COLORADO; UTAH; DADE COUNTY (FLA); LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (95%); COLORADO, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BOYCOTTS; NYTRAVEL; HOMOSEXUALITY; ABORTION ; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS BOYCOTTS (92%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); TOURISM (87%); MAMMALS (86%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); MAYORS (72%); ABORTION (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); REFERENDUMS (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



115 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Bazaar With the Feel of Bombay, Right in Queens

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
A decade ago, when V. N. Prakash began selling jewelry there, 74th Street in Queens was a modest, unhurried shopping district -- a neighborly cluster of delis and groceries, a tailor, a shoemaker and a stationer, and a bakery that was, to the locals anyway, a landmark.
These days, though, this two-block street in Jackson Heights has become the nation's largest shopping center for immigrants from India -- a bazaar that could be in Bombay, where the smell of masalas wafts from restaurants and groceries, and thousands of people course through store after store buying saris, spices and jewelry and appliances to send to India. 
 "When I first started, everyone was laughing at me," said Mr. Prakash, a native of Bangalore, whose store, Jewels India Jewels, was the first on the block to sell intricate gold necklaces and rings that are fashionable in India. " 'Who would buy this?' they said. Now, look! There are 17 jewelry stores alone. This is like a mecca for Indian people."
 
Mixing Vitality and Tension
 The evolution of 74th Street, which has brought new vitality and new tensions to Jackson Heights, illustrates one way the influx of more than one million immigrants since 1980 has changed a city that is forever shaped and reshaped by immigration.
From the Russians in Brighton Beach to the Dominicans in Washington Heights, the newest newcomers are transforming many of the city's shopping districts. As the immigrants before them did, they are carving out enclaves to cater to their own tastes, creating new versions of Main Street, U.S.A., modeled on the shopping centers they left behind.
This time, however, these enclaves represent a breadth of diversity unparalleled in the city's history. In Queens, a borough once exemplified by Archie Bunker but in fact the city's most ethnically diverse, dozens of these enclaves have appeared in the last two decades.
Some are merely clusters of stores, like the Argentine markets along Junction Boulevard and the West Indian retailers in Jamaica. Others, though, have become fully evolved centers of commerce. There is Little Colombia on the border of Jackson Heights and Elmhurst; the city's second Chinatown on Main Street in Flushing, and the concentration of dozens of Korean shops on Union Street in Flushing.
 
'The Marvel of New York'
 "This is the marvel of New York," said Eric A. Kober, the director of housing, economics and infrastructure for the city's Planning Department. "The vitality that allows these neighborhoods to grow -- it is one of the reasons one can be optimistic about the future of the city."
Not everyone, however, agrees. For some longtime residents in Jackson Heights, the flourishing of the Indian stores on 74th Street -- whatever its economic benefits -- has meant the demise of the mom-and-pop shops they considered their own.
As the new stores, and the crowds they draw, have grown, these residents have also complained of congestion, noise and litter. Once, three years ago, they even held a protest march down the street. And this fall, when Indian merchants asked the city to recognize the district formally by the name many now call it -- Little India -- their anger surfaced once again.
"This used to be an American marketplace," said Joseph Gallo, a resident near the strip and one of 700 people who signed a petition opposing the recognition, which the local community board is still considering. "These merchants have taken over our neighborhood. They have invaded us. And they are just standing there not understanding why we're complaining."
 
Accidental Transformation
 The transformation of 74th Street, which extends from the elevated subway station at Roosevelt Avenue north to 37th Avenue, began almost by accident nearly 20 years ago.
In 1973, two merchants, Subhash Kapadia and Nitin Vora, opened an electronics and appliance store, called Sam and Raj, to cater to the demand for appliances that operate on 220 volts (not the United States standard of 110 volts) to take or send back to India.
Mr. Vora said they chose 74th Street because it offered good space and low rent, not to mention the advantage of being at the confluence of subway and bus lines at Roosevelt Avenue and Broadway. Their success soon attracted other Indian merchants, and by the mid-1980's they replaced the older merchants that closed when their leases expired and rents increased.
There are now 82 Indian establishments on 74th Street and spilling onto 37th Avenue and 73d Street -- including 12 restaurants, 12 groceries, 17 jewelry stores and at least 20 clothes stores with a dizzying array of names like Sari Palace, India Sari Palace, Taj Sari Palace, Popular Sari Palace and Prince Sari Palace. Even the Key Food supermarket, one of the few more traditional stores on the strip, now sells Indian beer.
The transformation has followed a pattern that has occurred around the city for a century, revitalizing shopping strips as older immigrant groups move on, said Frank Vardy, a demographer with the city's Planning Department. "A couple of successful stores, a couple of theaters or restaurants," Mr. Vardy said. "That's all it takes."
 
95,000 Indians in New York
 More than 95,000 Indians live in the city -- 56,000 of them in Queens -- but what distinguishes 74th Street from other shopping enclaves, Mr. Vardy said, is that few actually live in the immediate area.
M. K. Srinivasan, the New York bureau chief of Indian American magazine, said 74th Street attracted the Indian diaspora from the suburbs and even as far away as Massachusetts and Maryland. As an Indian shopping center, he said, it far surpasses smaller enclaves in Chicago and Austin, Tex. "It's very important to Indians," he said. "It gives us a flavor of home."
The other day thousands of people -- from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh -- surged over the narrow street lined by squat brick storefronts with a melange of signs. Giri Heda, an engineer who immigrated 22 years ago, had driven to the strip from his home in Windsor, Conn., with a friend visiting from India, Vijay Pareek, who marveled that a part of New York City could be almost indistinguishable from Bombay.
As he browsed in Shreeji Groceries, an airy basement store on 74th Street, Mr. Heda explained that at least once a month he stocked up on groceries difficult to find elsewhere: masalas, which are mixtures of spices, desserts like revdis and rossogollas and unusual varieties of lentils and rice.
 
Shopping for Friends
 And when he comes, his friends often ask him to pick up things for them. This time, he shopped for five of them. "We can't get this anywhere else," he said, holding several shopping bags. "When we come, it's one stop."
At the Menka Beauty Salon, at the corner of 37th Avenue, hairdressers colored hair and shaped eyebrows with string using a deft technique called threading.
Suseeka Chandrasekar, who works for the Department of Defense, drove two hours from Montville, N.J., to have her hair packed with henna mud, as a love story called "Apradhi" ("Criminal" in Hindi) played on a television. "You can't get this everywhere, you know," she said.
For the most part, 74th Street remains a shopping area only -- the city's largest Hindu temple, for example, is in Flushing -- but the Jackson Heights Merchant Association hopes to expand cultural activities. On Oct. 25, more than 1,500 people, including several members of India's Parliament and Mayor David N. Dinkins, jammed the streets for the neighborhood's first festival celebrating Diwali, the Indian New Year.
"My kids, they won't know Diwali," said Mr. Vora of Sam and Raj, who now serves as the president of the merchants' association. "It's still more a commercial place, but we want to start a tradition."
 
Alienation and Congestion
 That effort -- including the request to designate the strip as Little India -- has once again provoked anger among some longtime residents in Jackson Heights. The designation, they say, would increase their sense of alienation, compound the congestion and attract more businesses to a shopping district already saturated.
Thomas Lowenhaupt, a computer publisher who lives on 75th Street at 37th Avenue, has watched the growth of stores with ambivalence. Unlike some residents, he does not speak harshly of the newcomers -- he frequently eats at the restaurants -- but he does worry about the impact, the congestion and litter, the demise of the older mom-and-pop shops.
"I don't know where it stops," he said. "I guess there's not much I can do, but just sit back and watch. It's evolution."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "This is like a mecca for Indian people," V. N. Prakash, owner of Jewels India Jewels, said about 74th Street in Queens. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. B1)
 
Map of Queens indicating Indian, Chinese, Korean and Colombian communities. (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; JACKSON HEIGHTS (NYC); QUEENS (NYC) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIAN-AMERICANS; KOREAN-AMERICANS; COLOMBIAN-AMERICANS; CHINESE-AMERICANS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION RETAILERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (75%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (73%); HISTORY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



116 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Donations Continue To Neediest

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
The recession that has dug in its heels in New York City has not only driven the unemployment rate to more than 10 percent, forcing thousands of people out of work for the first time in their lives. It has also left many of those who still have jobs with gnawing doubts: Is my company safe? Will the economy improve? Do I have enough savings if I am laid off?
With anxiety blanketing the region, many charities are facing declining donations because those who have contributed before are giving more cautiously. But some people are so concerned about the poverty sown by the economic slump that they are disregarding their own worries and giving money to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 "While we would have liked to have given more, we have been experiencing difficult financial circumstances," Karlton A. and Cynthia DeFoe of New Providence, N.J., wrote in letter to the fund in which they enclosed a $25 check. "But we know that there are so many people so much worse off, where finding their next meal is a big challenge, that we want to help even in this small way."
 
'Economic Realities'
 Eric and Jean Dattner of Queens sent $500, but they expressed regret that they could not give more. "Although economic realities force us to cut this year's contribution, we are delighted to once again be a part of this worthy effort," they wrote.
Jennifer Plassman of Brooklyn donated $25. "I have a new baby this year and funds are a little tight," she said. "But I want to keep my own personal tradition of contributing to the fund going. I am hoping to be more prosperous and, therefore, generous in the years to come."
Since the early years of this century, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has come to the aid of tens of thousands of people who lacked food, clothing, shelter and health care. The fund was born in 1911 after Adolph S. Ochs, the publisher of The Times, decided that his readers would be eager to help if they knew about the suffering around them.
The New York Times pays the expenses of the Neediest Cases campaign, so all contributions are given directly to seven charities. This year's appeal, the 81st, ends on Feb. 28.
Several contributors sent money to the fund even though they recently were laid off.
 
A Prayer and a Toast
 "I don't know if I believe what goes around, comes around," Terry White of Manhattan wrote. "But this is not a year that I want to take any chances! As of Jan. 8, I will be without a job. This $100 gift is offered as a prayer and a toast toward a better year for all. Let 1993 be the beginning of plenty, and peace in neighboring streets and homes, and those abroad."
Ruth R. Potischman of Manhattan, who also gave $100 to the fund, said she was in a similar situation.
"This holiday season has not turned out exactly as I'd planned," she wrote. "I was laid off from my job of five years and, although very hopeful, I've yet to land another one. The good news is that I'm in a wonderful marriage and I've got great friends and family -- a lot to be grateful for!"

GRAPHIC: Table:
 
Previously recorded . . . $2,520,056.02
Recorded yesterday . . . $15,500.00
 
Total . . . $2,535,556.02

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



117 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
From Mexico South, a Changing Postwar World

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
"Americas" draws attention to the problems and promises of the area from Mexico to the Malvinas, which is now supplying the United States with what will soon be its largest minority. The 10-part series, arranged more or less by theme and country, offers serviceable accounts of the region's post-World War II history, largely through the eyes of people directly affected.
The first hour of tonight's two-hour opener focuses especially on the shake-up in Argentina's traditional class structure by the Peronista phenomenon, which took power from the long-dominant landowners and established a political base among the growing working class. 
 The straightforward if somewhat stiff narration, read by Raul Julia, is abetted by well-chosen newsreels. But the program's freshest material comes from individuals like the landowner who laments the loss of the Argentina that was "one big family."
The right-wing military repression of the 1970's is made vivid through the memories of women whose parents were among "the disappeared," those who were rounded up by security forces in what came to be known as the dirty war, and were never heard from again.
One officer, Gen. Mario Menendez, defends the operation as essential for putting down left-wing guerrillas, although he concedes that what he calls mistakes were probably made. Gen. Menendez returns to tell of leading the forces that were routed by the British in Argentina's Falkland Islands adventure in 1982, which helped bring down the military power in Buenos Aires. Another mistake.
The second hour covers Brazil's transformation in recent decades from economic miracle to economic disaster area. Tumultuous years are seen from the points of view of a union leader, a military officer and a former Finance Minister, among others.
Next week, the subject is the immense migration in the area, with the focus on Mexico. And in subsequent weeks, the series sweeps across Haiti, Chile, Cuba, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Colombia, Peru and other countries, ending up with looks at the Mexican-Americans in California and people from Latin America and the Caribbean in New York City and Miami.
The series is light on ideology, except for a natural bent toward democracy. Combining the color of a travelogue with some analysis of political, social and economic transformations, "Americas" offers viewers in the United States a perspective on what must often seem to be incomprehensible commotions to the south.
 
AMERICAS
PBS, tonight at 9.
(Channels 13 and 49 in New York.)
 
The first two parts of a 10-part documentary series produced by WGBH Boston and Central Television Enterprises for Channel 4, United Kingdom; Judith Vecchione, executive producer; Raul Julia, narrator.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The streets of Mexico City, from "Continent on the Move," a segment in the 10-part series "Americas." (Robert Frerck/Odyssey Productions)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICAS (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PERU (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) APCO ARGENTINA INC (57%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PERU (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



118 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2044 words

HEADLINE: Struggling Artists -- A periodic look at the quest for success in New York.;
Living the Life of Audition After Audition

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
One recent Monday, Mark Guin, a 28-year-old actor who moved to New York over the summer, woke up in his third-floor Manhattan walk-up in Clinton, put on in boots, tight jeans and a denim jacket -- "Macho and sensitive at the same time," he explained -- and went to four auditions. After the first, a call back for an out-of-town production of Jon Robin Baitz's "Substance of Fire," he felt energized.
"We got in 40 minutes of work," he said. "It was almost like a rehearsal. It feels good to get that long a run at something." 
 After the second, a five-minute line reading for the role of Hippolytus in Racine's "Phaedra" at the Pearl Theater Company in Chelsea -- "It was like, 'Thank you very much' " -- he was so irritated that unprovoked he snarled at the cabdriver who ferried him downtown to TriBeCa.
There, at a film production company called the Shooting Gallery, was the third audition, which, his agent had told him, was for a 30-minute film. The director was looking for someone "real appealing, mellow and bohemian."
Getting out of the cab, Mr. Guin (pronounced GYOO-in), a lanky, tousled blond with slightly crooked good looks, pulled a prop out of his brown leather shoulder bag.
"That's why I brought these beads," he said, slipping a necklace over his head.
Twenty minutes later, Mr. Guin emerged. The director was a good guy, he said. They'd had a friendly conversation, though not about the film. Instead, Mr. Guin said, he'd been asked to read a scene from the Alain Resnais movie "Hiroshima, Mon Amour."
How come?
"I don't know," Mr. Guin said, shrugging. And he headed uptown for his final audition of the day, at the soap opera "Guiding Light." He was to read for the part of Hart Jessup, who was described to him as a young horseman with a broken heart and a fondness for Yeats. When Mr. Guin got to the midtown studio, the casting director didn't recognize him as the man in the picture his agent had sent over.
"That's always a bad sign," Mr. Guin said, after his 10-minute reading.
As it turned out, Mr. Guin got no parts out of his odyssey and he had no other auditions scheduled the rest of the week. But on balance, he said, he had had enough human contact to make it a good day. By the standards of a young actor new to New York, he was right. Short of a ridiculous Lana-Turner-in-Schwab's stroke of luck, about the best a committed and aspiring thespian can hope for is to get around, be seen, make an impression.
"I will play any part that excites me, no matter what it happens to be in," Mr. Guin said. "I don't feel like that's a compromise. That's what my work is about. Some actors are good enough to make any part exciting. I mean, Robert De Niro could make Hart Jessup a very interesting guy."
If touring the city in search of an opportunity to impersonate someone, anyone, seems an aimless, random existence, ruled by serendipity and the whims of strangers, it is. But this is how young actors pay dues, developing what everyone in the performance world speaks of as the foremost necessity: thick skin.
"Acting demands you be vulnerable emotionally in order to do the work, but have a hide as thick as a rhinoceros to take the rejection," said Don Scardino, a director and the new artistic director of Playwrights Horizons.
Mr. Scardino was among several theater professionals to note that with its high rents, dwindling opportunities and a business atmosphere in which a few high-powered agents control a high percentage of the talent pool, New York City is tougher than ever on newcomers.
"The way actors get work has changed radically," he said. "At one time, you could just make the rounds and get work. There used to be a lot more entry-level agencies. Now you've got superagencies, like William Morris, and they don't want to come near you. There are some mid-range agencies, but they're inundated.
"When we cast a play at Playwrights," he continued. "I might come up with 10 or 12 people who are right for a given part, people I know and have worked with. That's before auditions, before agents' submissions. In the end, there might be a couple of hundred actors who feel they must be seen."
Mr. Guin, who on the basis of some out-of-town work was able to become a member of Actors' Equity, the performers' union, estimated that he had been on 50 auditions without getting a part since moving to New York in July from San Antonio, where he had played Mercutio in a regional theater production of "Romeo and Juliet." He had an agent, Meg Mortimer, who called him after seeing him perform as Lysander in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" with the Acting Company, a touring repertory group. But he said he expected that it would probably take a year before his anonymity in the world of local auditions would begin to give way to a reputation that would precede him.
"I think Mark is a leading man, but he has an edge to him," Ms. Mortimer said. "He's got the natural appeal to do TV, and the acting ability for all three mediums. But you have to invest time, you have to go out on auditions, you have to get close and you have to fall on your face."
In the meantime, like a lot of his compatriots, Mr. Guin is living on meager means with a limited wardrobe and thrift-shop furniture. "I found myself rummaging around my apartment for change a few days ago," he said.
Mr. Guin, a former bicycle mechanic and house painter, is not working and is entitled to a couple of more months of unemployment insurance from the Acting Company job, which ended in March. He admitted to being temperamentally unsuited to the actor's standby -- restaurant work -- and said he would go back to painting when his money ran out.
"New York is where you go to get beat up, to pound the pavement," said Mr. Guin, who began his acting career six years ago as an intern at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego. "I thought of going to Seattle" -- a city with an expanding reputation for theater -- "but then I was told people who go to Seattle end up doing beadwork." Besides, he said, part of the attraction of New York is the idea of overcoming the odds. "They say that in Los Angeles, beauty counts," he said. "In New York, talent does."
 
The Lure of New York
 Television and film work in New York is sparse, and in general the competition for stage roles continues to intensify. Actors' Equity says 41.4 percent of its 35,252 paid members nationwide worked at least one week last year, compared with 47 percent of 27,808 paid members a decade ago. But New York continues to attract young actors seeking to test their mettle.
"Unless someone is a beautiful model type -- because that's the other way of succeeding, to be drop-dead gorgeous -- if you have aspirations for being a real actor, you have to come to New York," said Barry Moss, a partner in Hughes-Moss, the casting agency responsible for "The Will Rogers Follies" and "The Cosby Show," among other stage and television projects. "This is where the teachers are. This is where the atmosphere is. The work ethic here in New York doesn't exist anywhere else."
The work ethic is a funny thing for an unemployed actor. Unlike a writer or musician, an actor cannot ply his trade alone. Mr. Guin describes filling his days with reading, visiting the zoo, talking with actor friends, nursing beers and eavesdropping at local bars. He doesn't watch much television -- he doesn't own one -- and doesn't attend movies or the theater all that often. He can't afford it. He tries to stay away from the phone, particularly after days like the four-audition Monday, so as not to let its silence torment him.
"You try to make it hard to give up," he acknowledged. "You play a lot of head games. You have to want it enough to work hard when you get a chance, but not so much to let it devastate you when you don't.
"It's a drag for anybody to be unemployed. This woman said to me the other day, 'Auditioning is our work.' So you try to make it mean something. But if you take it too seriously, you're doomed. If you get philosophical, it can be dangerous."
 
Plus Side of Humiliation
 "I love hearing horror stories about auditions," he said, telling one about a friend who auditioned for a musical though he was incapable of carrying a tune. "I got the feeling he made a fool of himself on purpose, to steel himself. The humiliation forces you not to take yourself so seriously." His own worst experience, he said, involved being asked to imagine himself a puppy in a pet store.
"That's the sort of thing that would embarrass you if you were 10 years old," he said.
The natural question is why a talented, intelligent young person would put up with this kind of life. "For most actors," he said, "it's more than the pleasure of the crowd applauding. You wouldn't work so hard in rehearsal otherwise. And it's dangerous as hell. You can really make a fool of yourself. Acting is a thrill sport, as much as anything else."
But how was he lured into such a fix? The answer is actually what you would want to hear from an artist. It's the pull of art.
"Acting pulled me in," he said. "It was the first hand that reached out to me when I was having a hard time."
As Mr. Guin tells his story, he was something of a wayward youth. Born in Austin, Tex., he moved to western New York State with his mother and stepfather when he was 5 years old. He did some acting in high school, he said, but it was mainly to impress girls. "It was like sports: a way to be a hero," he said.
 
Expelled From School
 After his mother's second divorce, he was sent to the Taft School, in Connecticut, where he was quickly expelled for youthful indiscretions. "Drinking, having girls in my room, the usual," he said.
There followed a period of transience. He returned to Texas, then moved back north, to New Haven. He enrolled at Vassar for a year, but again, was expelled. Then he rejoined his mother, who had moved to Kalamazoo, Mich., and worked as a bicycle mechanic.
"My mother was auditing a class in religious philosophy at Kalamazoo College, and another person who was auditing was teaching an acting class," Mr. Guin said of the serendipity that changed his life. His mother introduced her classmate, whose name was Brant Pope, to her son. "I was very unhappy at the time," he said. "I took the class, and it was fantastic. It felt right. Brant was a great teacher. He was the one who told me I was an actor. He'd ask relentless questions about characters, and I felt like I was addressing myself through addressing someone else. For the first time I felt I could express something potent in myself."
From Kalamazoo, he went to San Diego, where he won a spot in the master of fine arts program at the Old Globe Theater.
"He auditioned for us, and he was unbelievably green," said Jack O'Brien, the artistic director of the Old Globe. "But also authentic and sharp. He squeaked into the program as the least-qualified and youngest actor. But it goes to show you he had something else going for him. Once he got into the program, he pretty much ate it whole."
 
Finally, a Part
 After two and a half years at the Old Globe, Mr. Guin auditioned for the Acting Company, and spent two years touring the country, eventually playing Romeo for several performances. His tenure with the company ended in March, when lack of funds aborted its tour, and after his stop in San Antonio he decided to try his luck in New York.
Actually, six mostly frustrating months after he arrived here, Mr. Guin's story had a happy ending. In mid-December, he got a job, a good one, albeit not in New York. In a couple of weeks he leaves for Houston, where he'll play George Gibbs in an Alley Theater production of "Our Town."
But it was before that happened, when he didn't know he was on the brink of good fortune, that Mr. Guin sat in a West Side bar late one night and said he still believed in acting as "a noble pursuit, a good path to take through life." Asked where he wanted to be in five years, he responded: "It's so hard to see beyond right now. In five years I just want to be a better actor, and I want to be working. I think that's ambitious as hell."
He tossed back his tequila and grinned.
"I feel very lucky to be in this unfortunate position," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I will play any part that excites me, no matter what it happens to be in," said Mark Guin, an actor who moved to Manhattan last summer. "I don't feel like that's a compromise. That's what my work is about. Some actors are good enough to make any part exciting." (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ACTORS AND ACTRESSES; THEATER ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MOVIE CASTING (78%); FILM (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; GUIN, MARK HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



119 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: New Year's in the City

 BODY:
The new year brings hope and fear to the people of New York City. Hope that after 12 years of neglect, urban America will get new help from Washington. And fear that the campaign for mayor will exacerbate the city's ragged race relations and consume the energies needed for renewal.
The two moods are intimately bound. Without more generous and coordinated assistance from Washington, the quality of urban life will worsen. If it does, so will destructive demagogy and the search for scapegoats. 
 Bill Clinton took a conspicuous walking tour through an inner-city neighborhood of Washington after his election. But like George Bush and Ross Perot, he largely ignored the cities' problems during the campaign. Large cities house large concentrations of minorities and the poor that suburban majorities prefer to forget.
But Mr. Clinton showed deep interest in health care insurance, AIDS relief, welfare reform and the plight of children -- issues of urgent concern to cities.
Will his Administration bring only incidental benefit to the cities? Or will it address their needs with full Federal weight? Real relief presupposes a healthier economy; reviving urban America will cost plenty. But cities deserve special attention even in tough times. They need social reforms that reduce welfare rolls, create jobs, build homes. Furthermore, urban ills don't stay within neat geographic lines. Eventually they invade suburbia, enlarging destruction and waste.
The number of New Yorkers subsisting on welfare payments has passed one million for the first time in more than 20 years. The costs of Medicaid continue to surge. The waiting lists for public housing have grown to 240,000 families -- almost as many as the number of apartments already occupied. The story is the same in virtually every large city.
Neglect and wrongheaded social policies aggravated by recession leave cities without the resources to pay for their poorhouse functions. But the poor will not go away -- until they are less poor. Unless Washington acknowledges the care of the poor as a national moral and financial obligation, urban poverty and misery will bankrupt governments and lay waste to urban infrastructure. The barren center of Detroit and other inner-city neighborhoods should be warning enough.
Bill Clinton has little direct experience with urban blight. As Governor of Arkansas he didn't have to exercise leadership over large cities, the struggling shelters of last resort for the nation's poor. But fortunately he has drawn to his side a number of urbanites who do have such experience. If he listens, and finds the resources, cities might begin their climb back.
Not all the remedies depend on Washington, of course. New York's leaders remain set in old and wasteful ways. Mayor David Dinkins has achieved some modest improvements, but the true innovations, like privatization and holding city workers more accountable, still elude New York. Can it reform wasteful civil service laws, write equitable property taxes, get sanitation workers to work a full day for a day's pay, revise rent control, revamp a petty, meddling Board of Education?
Debating such issues would make for a lively and constructive mayoral contest. But continuing racial tension raises the specter of a polarizing campaign. New York and other cities have a strong claim on the national conscience and pocketbook. Yet city leaders cannot hope to press that claim if they do not themselves practice the reform and demonstrate the responsibility they seek.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY OF HOPE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY OF HOPE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL AID (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); SUBURBS (75%); MEDICAID (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CHILDREN (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); RECESSION (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); TRENDS (64%); RACE & RACISM (57%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



120 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: New York's Loss: Timothy Healy

 BODY:
Timothy Healy, the warm, erudite Jesuit priest who died of a heart attack Wednesday, was a native New Yorker who rejoiced in the city long at the center of his life. Named president of the New York Public Library just as the economy declined, Dr. Healy badgered city officials to come up with more money, recession or no recession.
They did. Starting today, all 82 branches of the New York Public Library will be open at least five days a week for the first time in more than a decade. 
 Dr. Healy succeeded the flamboyant Vartan Gregorian, who revived the near-destitute library. He built on the Gregorian legacy and then some. Dr. Healy championed the restoration of branch libraries, presided over the expansion and improvement of a library for the blind and guided plans for a new science and business library.
Despite these and other accomplishments, it was Dr. Healy's intellectual and social reach that most struck those who knew him. The former president of Georgetown University and vice chancellor of City University of New York, he was equally comfortable with college students and the rich and powerful, equally knowledgeable about City Hall and the poetry of Virgil.
Dr. Healy didn't stand on ceremony. He wore business suits instead of clerical garb, refused to live in the generous Madison Avenue residence the library provides its president, choosing instead a smaller apartment in midtown, and donated his $100,000 salary to the Jesuit order.
It was Tim Healy's misfortune to preside over the library in difficult instead of flush times. But it was New York's good fortune to benefit from his wise, zestful tutelage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; EDITORIALS PUBLIC LIBRARIES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DEATHS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); 

PERSON: HEALY, TIMOTHY S (REV) TIMOTHY STAFFORD HEALY (97%); VARTAN GREGORIAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



121 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Not All Productivity Can Be Increased

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"What Counts Is Productivity and Productivity" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13), a prelude to President-elect Clinton's economic conference in Little Rock, Ark., states that productivity will be the measure of economic success for Mr. Clinton's Presidency. 
 I believe you fail to mention the principal reason that productivity has grown so modestly in the 1980's. During that decade, our economy became more service-oriented, as opposed to a manufacturing-based economy. Many manufacturing jobs disappeared or moved overseas, to be replaced with service jobs.
However, service jobs do not lend themselves easily to productivity improvement. There is no miracle machinery on the horizon that will lead to a service breakthrough.
Doctors, lawyers and accountants have only minimally improved their productivity by using computers, and probably will not achieve greater productivity in the next several years. Other people in the service industry, such as office cleaners, computer operators, salespeople, bank tellers, food service workers and home health care attendants, pretty much reached the limits of their productivity years ago.
 
EDNA BLANCHARD
New York, Dec. 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



122 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Under Calm Surface of 1992's Indexes Lay Waves of Turbulent Stocks

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Philosophers going back to Heraclitus have said that behind seeming permanence lies constant flux, and the course of last year's stock market bears them out. The Dow Jones industrial average set a record for tranquillity, with the narrowest margin in history between high and low. For the first time since 1986, the Dow had no 100-point days.
Yet individual stocks caromed around like so many overheated molecules. Onetime favorites, like I.B.M., collapsed; others, like Chrysler, whose shares had once shriveled to single digits, flourished and were among the leading gainers. 
 Cyclical industries including cars, semiconductors, banking and retailing gave investors the best returns, while the drug stocks and other medical issues that had led the market in past years succumbed to the increasing threat of cost controls.
In an era when individual investors were said to have surrendered their initiative to faceless institutions, they became net investors in stocks for the first time in 30 years. Instead of picking from among thousands of stocks themselves, they tended to sift through the thousands of mutual funds. Net investments in equity mutual funds set an annual record of $68.7 billion through November, already beating the previous record, in 1991, by more than $30 billion.
They overwhelmingly bought small stocks and small-stock funds, giving the Nasdaq composite index a 15.5 percent gain to a record close, more than tripling the gains of 4.2 percent in the Dow and 4.5 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500.
Even the best market timer could have made no more than 8.8 percent on the price of the Dow stocks, or 11.8 percent on the S.& P., because these were their whole ranges last year. Despite the collapse of the Japanese stock market, the stalling of Europe's semi-unified economy, a Presidential election and the economy's delayed comeback in the United States, it was the least volatile year in history. The S.& P.'s average annual range for the last 65 years has been 34.8 percent, or 26 percent excluding the Depression period.
The averages encompassed huge, offsetting gains and losses, however, as individual stocks went manic. "Charles Dow would never have earned a name if his average had such muted volatility," said Thomas McManus, a market analyst at Morgan Stanley & Company. "In 1992, the average didn't tell what the average company was doing."
At the extremes, the Walt Disney Company more than doubled, while the International Business Machine Corporation fell more than 43 percent, erasing $22 billion in shareholder wealth.
Of the Big Board stocks priced at $40 and more -- the supposedly stable institutional favorites -- last year more than one of eight veered at least 3 percent on the average day, said Laszlo Birinyi, whose consulting firm bears his name. In the 1970's, when the market as a whole was far more volatile, only about 1 of 13 stocks bounced around that much.
Mutual fund managers were the quickest draws, accounting for 95 percent of the New York Stock Exchange's net buying but dumping stocks on any disappointment. "The old saying was, 'Buy on the rumor, sell on the news," Mr. Birinyi said. "Last year was, 'Sell on the rumor, then sell on the news, too.' "
Most strategists readily say that in 1993 the market's flow is bound to change. But many are recommending the same investments -- small stocks especially -- that performed well last year. They argue that larger, global companies are more vulnerable to recessions abroad.
Individuals, especially, tend to keep doing what has recently worked best. They are so likely to lose money chasing the hottest stocks or mutual funds that some analysts take their actions as sound indicators of what not to do.
The risks this year may be especially high. Most analysts agree that the market is already expensive. The stocks that constitute the Standard & Poor's 500 cost $24 for each $1 of earnings, and pay an annual dividend of about 2.9 percent. An earnings multiple of at most 16 and a yield of 4 to 5 percent are more typical.
To satisfy investor fancies, Wall Street's hothouses produced $39 billion in new issues, easily a record. But as many of 1991's biotechs wilted, investment firms cultivated new restaurant stocks instead, once again selling as perennials some exotic, expensive blooms whose popularity might not survive another season.
An overpriced market, like an overpriced currency, can persist, however, as it did throughout the last year. Many strategists, including Mr. Birinyi and Steven G. Einhorn of Goldman, Sachs & Company, say individual investors will keep feeding their renewed appetite for stocks, animating the market for years to come.
The recovery might also help corporate profits continue to catch up with the market, as companies have become so efficient that any pickup in business will amplify earnings. Stefan D. Abrams, a portfolio manager at the Trust Company of the West, predicts that the earnings underlying the S.& P. 500 will be more than $26 next year, up from about $22 this year and enough to sustain at least a 15 percent gain in stock prices.
 
Little Room for Disappointment

 
 But all these assumptions about individual investors, the economy, interest rates and profits leave little room for disappointment, said Robert Farrell, a senior investment adviser at Merrill Lynch. Even if interest rates stay low, he says, investors turning over their certificates of deposit this year will find their income little changed. Some will still seek out bonds or stocks but probably not as many as last year, when investors faced the prospect of renewing at much-reduced yields.
Once again, many mutual fund managers can lure customers by trumpeting that they bested the S.& P. 500 last year -- a feat that, if they happened to be running small- stock funds, was as easy as hitting foul shots from 10 feet out, rather than the usual 15.
Many major institutions were shooting from 20 feet out, especially those that invest most of their money in an index of larger stocks. For many pension funds, only a broad range of the biggest stocks can absorb the billions, even tens of billions, that they must invest.
Some fund managers who index their investments are prodding the companies, like I.B.M. and Westinghouse, that are dragging these indexes down. "If you're 400 or below in the S.& P. 500, you're almost guaranteed to get a call from us," said Dale M. Hansen, executive director of the California Public Employees Retirement System, referring to his five-year performance rankings.
Many other money managers say that this year will again reward stock pickers, of issues large and small, over those who stay with an index of major stocks. To say otherwise, of course, could put their own jobs at risk.
Still, as Heraclitus, the ancient Greek philosopher, said, "The oracle neither reveals nor conceals, but intimates," a thought that might chasten any modern-day prophets who claim that the market's 1992 intimations yield clear guidance about the course of 1993.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a chart in Business Day yesterday about the stock market's performance in 1992 gave incorrect closing prices and percentage changes for the stocks of Walt Disney, Caterpillar, Procter & Gamble and J. P. Morgan, which are among the 30 issues that make up the Dow Jones industrial average. A corrected chart appears today on page D2.

GRAPHIC: Charts: Chart tracking the dow industrials in 1992. (pg. D1); Chart of how Dow Jones top 30 stocks fared in 1992 (Source: Datastream); Chart of big winners and losers on Dow Jones in 1992 (Source: Standard & Poor's); Chart of Russell 2,000 index for 1992 (Source: Datastream); Chart indicating some changes in various markets during 1992. (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (62%); DIS (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (61%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (61%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (62%); WALT DISNEY CO (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STOCK INDEXES (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); ELECTIONS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



123 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Princeton Economist to Be Named To Clinton's Council, Aides Say

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Responding to pressure to name a prominent mainstream economist to the Council of Economic Advisers, President-elect Bill Clinton has offered a seat on the council to Alan Blinder of Princeton University, and Mr. Blinder has accepted, aides to Mr. Clinton and others familiar with the appointment said over the weekend.
Mr. Blinder, whose appointment is likely to be announced this week, would serve under Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a Stanford University economist. Some economists have criticized Ms. Tyson's appointment, arguing that her speciality, industrial and trade issues, has not given her the broad skills needed by a chairman of the council. 
 Mr. Blinder's appointment would help to counter this criticism; he is highly regarded as a macroeconomist, a specialty that carries considerable status in his profession.
 
Effects of Policies on Economy
 Macroeconomists employ mathematical formulas and computer models, among other techniques, in attempts to determine how the economy might respond to particular Government policies or other economic developments. Among the policies likely to be proposed by a Clinton Administration and evaluated by the council are increased spending on public works, an income tax cut for the middle class or a higher gasoline tax. Macroeconomists also try to forecast turns in the economy -- the likelihood of recoveries or recessions.
The chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers has generally overshadowed the two other members, working directly with the President while the others have stayed in the background, their names almost unknown to the public. But as a macro-economist, Mr. Blinder is likely to play a prominent role on the council, since he is considered more suited than Ms. Tyson to performing a crucial task of the council: assessing the impact of proposed policies.
"I will be vastly reassured if Alan Blinder is named to the Council of Economic Advisers," said Paul R. Krugman, a macroeconomist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who had himself been a candidate for the chairmanship. "He would provide the necessary analytical skills that Laura Tyson lacks."
Ms. Tyson came to Mr. Clinton's attention during the campaign and has helped to draft amendments to President Bush's free trade agreement with Mexico and Canada that Mr. Clinton might insist on after his inauguration. These would, in effect, require Mexico to enforce its labor and anti-pollution laws.
 
Worked With Clinton's Campaign
 Mr. Blinder also helped with the campaign, and he spoke on macroeconomic issues at Mr. Clinton's recent economic get-together in Little Rock, Ark. Reached by telephone yesterday, the economist declined comment on the reports of his appointment. During the campaign, he came out in favor of increasing the deficit to finance public works spending, a position favored by many economists who supported Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Blinder, 47, has been an economics professor at Princeton, his alma mater, since 1969. He received his Ph.D. at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and is the author or co-author of three books on economics. If Congress approves his appointment, this will be his first Government job.
No one has yet been publicly identified as a likely candidate for the third seat on the Council of Economic Advisers.
Until Ms. Tyson's surprise appointment last month as chairman, Mr. Blinder had been mentioned in press reports as a leading candidate for the job, along with Mr. Krugman and Lawrence H. Summers, a Harvard macroeconomist who took a leave as chief economist at the World Bank to work with Mr. Clinton's transition team.
Mr. Summers in particular was publicly endorsed for the job by prominent university economists. And his appointment seemed likely until a proposal of his on waste disposal came to the attention of the Clinton camp. It suggested that waste products might be shipped to third world countries, bringing him into disfavor with Vice President-elect Al Gore.
 
Academic Economists' Envoy
 Mr. Krugman and many other macroeconomists, particularly those in academia, have come to consider the three-member Council of Economic Advisers as their "embassy" in Washington. Because they view the council as their chief means of influencing Administration policy, they urged Mr. Clinton to appoint a top macroeconomist who would properly practice their skills and represent their views.
When Mr. Clinton named Ms. Tyson instead, she was publicly criticized by other economists as not only lacking the necessary qualifications for the job but also as favoring managed trade and Government support for key American industries. Neither view is popular among most mainstream academic economists, who generally prefer a minimal Government role in the economy. This disagreement has helped to fuel the criticism of Ms. Tyson, several economists, who insisted that they not be named, said in interviews.
Ms. Tyson declined to be interviewed. An aide said she would not speak with journalists until after her confirmation hearing, which is expected this month.
Her appointment also raised the issue of rankings within the profession. Mr. Krugman and other economists argued that after 12 years of Republican Administrations, the chairmanship of the council should go to one of the Democrats among the ranks of the top macroeconomists.
"Despite what people say about economists always disagreeing with each other, there is agreement on rankings within the profession," Mr. Krugman said.
"There is a pecking order," he continued, citing Nobel laureates in economics like Paul Samuelson, Robert M. Solow and James Tobin as those at the pinnacle in the over-65 generation. All are Democrats. Mr. Blinder, Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Krugman, also Democrats, are ranked among the top 20 or so in the younger generation.
 In some copies, the article also misstated the affiliation of Paul R. Krugman. He is an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, not Harvard.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about an appointment to the Council of Economic Advisers misstated the affiliation of Laura D'Andrea Tyson. She is an economist at the University of California at Berkeley, not at Stanford.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Blinder, a Princeton University economist, who is said to have accepted a position on the Council of Economic Advisers. (Jim Middleton for The New York Times)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (65%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); POLITICS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); MATHEMATICS (67%); TAX RELIEF (66%); FUEL TAX (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (60%); INCOME TAX (52%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; BLINDER, ALAN; TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



124 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: The Media Business: Press Notes;
Amid Newspapers' Gloom, The Readers Start to Return

BYLINE: By William Glaberson

 BODY:
Conspiracy theorists in the newspaper industry have long suggested that publishers slyly emphasize signs of gloom. Then, goes the thinking, they can justify cutbacks, price increases and general Scrooge-ishness.
Unfortunately for publishers wedded to the doomsday scenario, 1992 brought some really good news for the news business. 
 People were actually reading newspapers in numbers large enough to lead some analysts to say that the industry's most troubling long-term trend, a decades-long readership slide, may have been reversed. A larger percentage of adult Americans read newspapers in 1992 than read them the year before.
"There's a lot of life in the old mare yet," said Albert E. Gollin, research director of the Newspaper Association of America, the national publishers' organization.
Thirty years ago, more than three quarters of Americans -- 77.6 percent -- read daily newspapers, according to a much cited annual survey by Simmons Market Research Bureau. Simmons has documented a persistent decline over the years, to 62.4 percent in 1990.
A few blips have appeared in readership numbers over the last three decades, but none, Mr. Gollin said, offered the hope of the 1992 increase. Simmons showed a jump from 62.1 percent of adults who were daily newspaper readers in 1991 to 62.6 percent in 1992, representing an increase from 113.3 to 115.3 million readers. Sunday editions drew nearly four million more readers in 1992.
With advertising sales still anemic and profit margins remaining a shadow of their former selves, publishers still have plenty to complain about. With the conspiracy theory in mind, reporters and editors take heed: It may be a bit premature to ask for that raise.
Imitation Is O.K. No Joke.
Joseph B. Meagher, chief executive of Yankee Publishing Inc., was licking his wounds last week after ending up on the losing side of a major free-press pronouncement in late December by a Federal district judge in New York City.
Yankee, based in Dublin, N.H., publishes The Old Farmer's Almanac, which got into a battle in 1990 with New York magazine. New York, in an effort to amuse, illustrated its Christmas cover that year with a likeness of the Almanac's distinctive yellow cover and carried on its theme of imitation through the edition.
Instead of offering typical Almanac fare of "astronomical tables, tides, holidays, eclipses, etc.," New York instead promised "210 gifts for the flush and the broke, the sober and the silly, the vile and the virtuous."
Mr. Meagher and his colleagues at Yankee Publishing didn't get the joke. They sued.
The case pitted The Farmer's Almanac's trademark rights against New York's First Amendment rights. New York won. Judge Pierre N. Laval cleared the way for publishers to imitate each other even when they are not engaging in parody, which courts have recognized as protected by the Constitution. The legal issue, the judge said, is whether a publisher is trying to impart a "communicative message."
The message that New York's editors intended to communicate, the judge ruled, was the comic point that the recession would send trendy New York readers toward the thriftiness supposedly exemplified by The Almanac.
In an interview from New Hampshire, Mr. Meagher said the company is considering an appeal. He said he is still steaming because New York's editors did not ask permission to imitate the Almanac. "They behaved," he said, "like rude New Yorkers."
Told of the slur, Edward Kosner, editor and president of New York, responded: "Tell it to the judge."
For a winner, New York was taking plenty of lumps all around. One part of Judge Laval's opinion suggested that New York's attempt at humor, while not a legal violation, may have been even worse: not funny. Mr. Kosner said that passage of the ruling was "less crystalline" than the rest.
"It was clear," Judge Laval wrote, "New York was making a joke, but it was less clear exactly what the joke was."
Everybody's a critic.
'Saturday Night' Spinoff
Live! From New York, it's a magazine.
Spin, the youth-oriented music-media-politics-pop culture publication, turned its entire February edition over to the cast and writers of "Saturday Night Live." The result is a sort of television show in print and, to hear Valerie J. Green, the general manager, tell it, it is also a demographic dream.
"Special issues sell extremely well on the newsstand, and that attracts a lot of advertisers," she said. Added to that, she said, is the fact that many of the television program's millions of viewers fall into Spin's target young, affluent audience (the average reader of the 305,016-circulation magazine is 23.6 years old). Humor, she said, is a big draw for that group.
So, on your newsstand soon: Spin's spin on a certain female celebrity's recent, very expensive, explicit book (hint: whips and chains are involved).
Also, there are exclusives. One is the true story of Jim Morrison's mother's reaction to the Oedipal rage that helped make him the Lizard King. ("No TV, no telephone. Now go to your room!") Do people who are 23.6 know who Jim Morrison was?
In a way, this year's guest-editor issue is an affirmation of humor after Spin's last guest-editor issue, which was heavily social and political. In 1991, Amnesty International took over an entire edition at the invitation of Spin's editor and publisher, Bob Guccione Jr., son of the Penthouse impresario who broke with the senior Guccione over the direction of Spin several years ago.
There was little demographically appropriate humor, Ms. Green said, in the Amnesty International issue. "What," she asked, "can you basically do with torture and human oppression?"

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Press Notes column on the Media Business page yesterday about a lawsuit by The Old Farmer's Almanac against New York magazine referred incorrectly to the Federal judge involved. He was Pierre N. Leval.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yankee Publishing Inc. last week lost a lawsuit over this 1990 cover of New York magazine imitating The Old Farmer's Almanac.; Chart indicating percentage of adult population that reads daily and Sunday newspapers (Source: Simmons Market Research Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (81%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OLD FARMER'S ALMANAC; YANKEE PUBLISHING INC;NEW YORK (MAGAZINE); SPIN (MAGAZINE); SIMMONS MARKET RESEARCH BUREAU YANKEE PUBLISHING INC (81%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); SIMMONS MARKET RESEARCH BUREAU INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLD FARMER'S ALMANAC; YANKEE PUBLISHING INC;NEW YORK (MAGAZINE); SPIN (MAGAZINE); SIMMONS MARKET RESEARCH BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; TELEVISION NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CHRISTMAS (67%); JUDGES (66%); TRADEMARKS (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); LITIGATION (61%); TRADEMARK LAW (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; LAVAL, PIERRE N (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



125 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO;
Cuomo Eyes Washington For New Set of Reasons

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 3

 BODY:
As he prepares to deliver his 11th State of the State Message on Wednesday, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo stands at one of the most awkward junctures of his political life.
With Bill Clinton's inauguration just over two weeks away, even Mr. Cuomo's most loyal lieutenants concede that the Governor, a Democrat, has diminishing relevance as a national spokesman for his party and his region. All eyes will be focused on Washington this year, with only an occasional glance toward Albany. 
 But in Albany, Mr. Cuomo is girding for yet another year of relentlessly bad news. The state faces a wide budget gap for the fifth consecutive year. And with the Governor determined to avoid tax increases, that means another round of cuts that will come perilously close to the muscle and bone of state agencies and programs.
The Legislature remains gridlocked, with the Assembly controlled by Democrats, the Senate controlled by Republicans, and nonpartisan leadership in short supply. Any chance for significant change died on Nov. 3, when voters maintained the 35-seat majority held by the Republicans in the 61-seat Senate and increased the Democratic majority in the 150-member Assembly to 101 seats from 95.
 
Republicans Seem Unintimidated
 The December battle between Mr. Cuomo and Senate leaders reinforced the notion that the Governor, for all his news conferences and appeals to public opinion, does not intimidate the Republicans in the slightest.
First, they rejected his call for a special session to deal with transportation financing issues, requiring the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to include an April fare increase in its budget. Two weeks later, they balked at the Governor's plan to bail out Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, forcing the Cuomo administration to approve a huge health insurance rate increase for 1.4 million New Yorkers on New Year's Eve.
In this environment, the 60-year-old Mr. Cuomo, who has been Governor since 1983 and has worked in state government since 1975, must decide how he will spend the rest of his life. Mr. Cuomo said last week that he would probably decide by the end of this year whether to run for a fourth four-year term in 1994.
If he completed a fourth term, surpassing the longevity mark of 15 years set by Nelson A. Rockefeller, Mr. Cuomo would leave a statistical legacy even if history gave mixed grades to his record.
Largely because they can think of nothing else Mr. Cuomo wants to do, the Governor's closest advisers assume that he will run unless Mr. Clinton appoints him to the Supreme Court. And Mr. Cuomo does not stop far short of saying so himself.
 
'With Both Fists Flying'
 "What if people told you you're not as popular as you used to be?" he asked himself in an interview. "O.K., so what? They told me I couldn't win in '82, and maybe I can't. But I can certainly go out with both fists flying and that's the way I would want to do it."
"So the only question really is do you believe that you could govern effectively and well for the people of the state and better than the people who might replace you. If I conclude yes, then I would choose to run unless there was something else I could do that would be more significant."
Contributing to the awkwardness of the moment for Mr. Cuomo is the degree to which his future now depends on Mr. Clinton. Only a year ago, Mr. Cuomo was taking Mr. Clinton to task on national television for saying that Mr. Cuomo "acts like" a member of the Mafia.
During the campaign, Mr. Clinton made conciliatory gestures by musing publicly on two occasions about the possibility of appointing Mr. Cuomo to the Supreme Court.
 
Justices May Not Oblige
 But campaign oratory is one thing; governing is another. First there must be a vacancy, and neither Mr. Clinton nor Mr. Cuomo has any control over the retirement schedules of the sitting justices. And Cuomo advisers recognize -- particularly after watching the President-elect select a Cabinet -- that Mr. Clinton may feel great pressure to use his first appointment to nominate a woman, a minority justice or a younger one.
In the meantime, while Mr. Cuomo shows no decline in his formidable energy and enthusiasm for his job, he concedes that he is frustrated by the continuing doldrums of the New York economy, the obstinacy of the Senate, and what he sees as the news media's failure to focus on his achievements.
In such times, Mr. Cuomo measures success not by the enactment of grand new programs, like the Decade of the Child initiatives he proposed in 1988, but by more basic accomplishments like passing a budget that was on time and in balance, holding the line against tax increases, and making spending cuts surgically rather than randomly.
Using that yardstick, Mr. Cuomo declared 1992 "a very good year." But he predicted that 1993 would pose the same challenges.
 
'Repair Work' in 1993
 "Is it going to be fun?" he asked. "No. Is there going to be heartbreak? A lot, yes. It's repair work. It's difficult work. It's keeping the place together."
By necessity, Mr. Cuomo will not propose any expensive new programs in his speech on Wednesday, administration officials say.
Instead, the address is expected to focus on the state's new relationship with Washington. The Governor will continue to use the Legislature as a foil by pushing for political reforms, like public campaign financing, and he will turn up the heat in his calls for a constitutional convention that would let the public circumvent the lawmakers.
Aides said that Mr. Cuomo has also become enthusiastic about a series of technological proposals. One would use the state's Dormitory Authority to finance the connection of every school and university in the state with fiber optics, so that a professor in Buffalo could teach a class with students in Queens. He is also expected to propose creation of a center in Albany dedicated to finding new ways to use technology to make state government more efficient.
 
Bad Mood Since Election Day
 Some Cuomo aides say they have seen no bitterness or second-guessing from the Governor about the fact that another Democrat is about to become President. Indeed, his Washington counsel, Brad Johnson, said Mr. Cuomo was thrilled about "having a Federal partner that we haven't had for 12 years."
But other aides, all of whom requested anonymity, say that Mr. Cuomo has been more irascible than usual since Election Day. They say there are times when Mr. Cuomo seems to crave a spotlight that has all but darkened, even if it means attaching himself to someone else's star.
While traveling in Italy in November, Mr. Cuomo had aides call reporters in New York to lobby for stories about his meeting with a local hero, the Mafia prosecutor Antonio DiPietro. On a trip to Dallas in early December, he called on Ross Perot and then described the meeting at length in news conferences in Dallas and Albany.
He also has rarely missed an opportunity to stress his closeness to the Clinton transition team, whether by noting the number of New Yorkers involved or by drawing comparisons between his economic policies and those of Mr. Clinton.
 
'Basically a New York Team'
 "The economic plan is as close to my plan as if I could have done it myself," he said in an interview last month. "And the team is basically a New York team, except for Bentsen."
When asked at a news conference in December whether he had had any discussions with the Clinton staff about the Supreme Court, Mr. Cuomo said, "I've spoken to a lot of people, including Governor Riley, who's an old friend of mine, and Stephanopoulos and Mickey Kantor and all of those people whose names you see." He said they had not specifically discussed the Court.
While settling in to await word from Mr. Clinton, Mr. Cuomo remains, as always, philosophical about the coming year and about his own future.
"It really turns on your view of life," he said. "How are you supposed to use it? Are you supposed to use it delighting yourself? Well, one simple conclusion could be you're supposed to use it trying to do significant things. Trying to do significant things. That's different than doing significant things. I cannot guarantee that my efforts will succeed. I can guarantee that they will be total, consuming, honorable and oriented toward success. That's all."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); APPROVALS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1993



126 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN MOSCOW: Bush and Yeltsin Sign Pact Making Deep Missile Cuts;
A Last Treaty Of Its Kind

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3

 BODY:
If nostalgia enveloped George Bush on his 25th and probably final foreign adventure as President, there was also some nostalgia for the old sureties of traditional arms control.
 Given its very sweep, the second Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II, is likely to be the last agreement of its kind. It represents both the triumph and the limit of two-way negotiations on arms control in a world that is no longer bipolar. 
The Soviet Union may have been a totalitarian menace, but its military commanders -- especially compared with the military commanders in some of the world's current trouble spots -- were responsible professionals who knew the dangers of the weapons they brandished or faced, and who could largely be expected to keep to the letter of the agreements they signed, however long or hard the negotiation.
 
New Cast of Nuclear Powers
 There was no fuss then about ratification by parliaments or any need to assuage the wounded pride of new states, like Ukraine, that woke up as nuclear powers and started to like the way it looked in the mirror.
 Each difficult, incremental treaty on the road to Start II felt momentous -- not because arms were reduced in any meaningful way, but because the gap of ideology and misperceptions crossed by the superpowers was so cavernous and the rope across it seemed so thin.
 The treaty is a legitimately momentous agreement, around which President Bush, President Boris N. Yeltsin and their speech writers did their best to spin flourishes of oratory about peace, children, trust and brotherhood. But there was a curious lack of moment.
 This odd fact was caused in part bythe haste of negotiation, and in part by Russia's impoverished condition, as an imploded empire reaching for aid and acceptance. Russia's diminished status seemed to intensify Mr. Bush's, even though he is a lame-duck President.
 But there is a deep, underlying sense that the new world is not only more complicated, but also considerably more volatile than the old. The end of the cold war straitjacket has meant the start of conflicts based on old nationalisms and economic rivalries, just as the collapse of the old fears of mutual assured destruction and nuclear holocaust has made the world safe for conventional war.
 
Disagreement Over Serbs
 As much as Mr. Bush and Mr. Yeltsin talked of cooperation and partnership, they clearly have their disagreements over how to deal with Serbian aggression in the former Yugoslavia. Mr. Yeltsin must face Russian conservatives and some nationalists who say they feel that he has already betrayed their "Serbian brethren" as well as old Soviet allies in Iraq, Syria, Cuba and elsewhere.
 The shelling over Mogadishu, Somalia, while Mr. Bush spent Friday night on an American naval vessel offshore was a reminder of the limits of relief intervention and feel-good gestures that Russian-American amity cannot solve. In Cambodia, where Washington and Moscow brokered a peace treaty through the United Nations Security Council, the Khmer Rouge's blatant defiance of that treaty and their continual kidnapping of United Nations peacekeeping troops promises a future renewal of horrors that could make Serbian behavior seem civilized.
The disclosures of Iraq's long and secret efforts to develop chemical and nuclear weapons, despite intermittent international inspections and despite Baghdad's signature on treaties that should have banned such programs, is a reminder of the actual value of treaties intended to stop the spread of arms. The behavior of Western companies that knowingly sold advanced machinery to Iraq that could be used for weapons-making raises questions about how former Soviet companies and their skilled scientists will act in a free-market system with porous border controls.
 
Future Tasks Cited
 Senior American officials here spoke of the future tasks of arms control, pointing to the Chemical Weapons Convention, scheduled to be signed shortly in Paris, and the effort to extend the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty beyond 1995.
 But they also understand how difficult Start II will be to ratify and carry out, even assuming that Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan follow through on their pledges to become non-nuclear states. According to a study by the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, the United States and Russia each employ more than a million people to build, field and maintain their nuclear arsenals. Dismantling these structures will present fundamental political, economic and environmental problems. Dismantling the weapons themselves, plus thousands of tactical nuclear weapons, is full of dangers.
 The Harvard study estimates that the Russians will have to destroy 100,000 metric tons of liquid rocket propellant, which explodes on contact with air, as well as safely transport, store and protect the highly prized nuclear material in all those warheads.
 Washington has promised direct financial and technical aid to Moscow and Kiev for these purposes, but the cost of dismantling these arsenals safely is likely to be shocking, diplomats suggest, far in excess of the initial American installment of $800 million.
 
Democracy as Arms Control
 One senior American official said wanly that "democracy is the best form of arms control," arguing that democratic nations do not start wars.
 But it is always possible, as Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia made clear last month in his stunning mock speech in Stockholm, that the Russian Government may one day end up in the hands of extreme nationalist, anti-Western politicians or military men who will treat Start II much as President Saddam Hussein of Iraq treated his solemn commitments.
 Another American official cautioned that there were limits to Washington's ability to influence events here or even to control how Russia carries out the treaty.
 "Both the financial obligations and the willingness to undertake the task are responsibilities that Russia and the other parties are accepting themselves," he said. "It is the Russian people and their leadership in this present instance who want to put some of the worst and most destabilizing aspects of the nuclear age behind us and accept that responsibility. We can help, but we're by no means the principal actor."
LEASHING WEAPONS: 30 YEARS OF PACTS
 August 1963 (Limited Test Ban Treaty): Prohibits nuclear testing or any other nuclear explosions in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water.
January 1967 (Outer Space Treaty): Prohibits sending nuclear weapons into Earth orbit, placing nuclear weapons on celestial bodies or stationing them in outer space.
July 1968 (Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty): Prohibits the transfer of nuclear weapons to other countries and prohibits helping countries without nuclear weapons to make or or acquire them. May 1972 (Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty): Bans space-based defensive missile systems and limits the United States and Soviet Union to one ground-based defensive missile site each.
July 1974 (Threshold Test Ban Treaty): The Soviet Union and United States agree
 to limit underground nuclear weapons tests.
June 1979 (Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty): The first formal strategic arms treaty sets an initial overall limit of 2,400 intercontinental ballistic missile launchers, submarine-launched missiles, heavy bombers and air-to-surface missiles, with the ceiling to be lowered in stages later.
December 1987 (Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty): Provides for the dismantling of all Soviet and American medium- and shorter-range land-based missiles and establishes a system of weapons inspection to guard against violations.
November 1990 (Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty): Originally negotiated between the members of NATO and the Warsaw Pact, the treaty limits the number of tanks, artillery, armored combat vehicles, combat aircraft and combat helicopters that each side is allowed to maintain in Europe.
July 1991 (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty - Start I): Brings the number of Soviet long-range nuclear warheads down from 11,012 to 6,163 and the United States warheads from 12,646 to 8,556.
January 1993 (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty - Start II): Slashes the superpowers' arsenals to a third of their current size. The American arsenal will be cut to 3,500 warheads and bombs, while the Russians will be down to 3,000 warheads and bombs. The reductions are to be carried out by 2003.
(Source: Arms Control Association for warhead numbers for Start I and II.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND
DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



127 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: STRICTLY BUSINESS;
How the Music Stopped For the Record Hunter

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
People still meander up to the entrance of the Record Hunter on Fifth Avenue between 42d and 43d Streets. They pause before the locked door, and some notice a scrawled sign saying that mail-forwarding forms have been sent to the postmaster. A few read a photocopied statement in the window telling of the financial tailspin of a store beloved by fans of jazz and classical music.
 Posted 11 days before Christmas, it tells of overexpanding during a bitter recession that has seen a drop-off in sales of all types of recordings, of mounting losses and shrinking inventories. It speaks of the sadness of closing after 47 years. It ends with a wish: "May you always keep the sound of music alive." 
Last week, Jay Sonin, the president and owner of the Record Hunter, was inside doing the grim work of taking his final inventory, making sure his final tax bill would be paid and answering the endlessly ringing phone. He wore a sweatshirt and blue jeans and smoked lots of cigarettes. What he seemed to cling to, beneath the numbness, was a bittersweet pride.
 "On a per-square-foot basis, we did more business than any record store in the world," he declared. "Every single record company told me that over the years."
 
'Your Last at Bat'
 Mr. Sonin, who is 52 years old and uncertain what he will do next, said without emotion that only his failure, not his years of success, would be remembered. "In life people remember your last at bat," he said.
 Perhaps not. "What a tragedy," said George Volckening of Qualiton Imports, an importer of classical records. "To me, it's part of history."
"It was the last of the major mom-and-pop operations," said Larry Palmacci, vice president of sales and marketing for Esquire Records Inc.
 Customers particularly share the distress. "I'm really sad," said Irene Soja, a secretary. And Harold Chester, a medical journal editor, said, "It had a certain character to it that the larger franchise stores don't have."
 Mr. Sonin's father was in the jukebox business and he himself began working in record stores at age 16. "The only thing to do was get in trouble or go to work," he said of the opportunities in the Brooklyn of his adolescence. "I worked hard."
 He worked for wholesalers, for department stores, for the record department of a sporting-goods store.
 
His First Record Store
 By 1964, he had accumulated enough money and experience to buy his first record store, World of Music on Lexington Avenue between 47th and 48th Streets. It amounted to 600 square feet of opportunity. He did well, and in 1973 a credit manager for a major record company asked if he was interesting in expanding. The Record Hunter was for sale.
 It was something of an august institution, having opened in 1945, and for years it occupied a spot a few doors down from Carnegie Hall, with opera stars among its customers. But the founder had died, and his wife and son were having a difficult go at the Fifth Avenue location. Creditors were soliciting bids for a replacement.
 Mr. Sonin beat out a now-defunct chain of record stores called King Karol. He paid $65,000 for the name, the mailing list, fixtures and the remaining 28 months on the lease. In 1976, he signed his own 15-year lease: $90,000 a year for 7,400 square feet.
 "It wasn't an excellent deal," he said. "I made it an excellent deal."
 What he did was move forward the storefront, which had been recessed from the building line, to make more space. He created a candy store from a vestibule and rented it. In the store's rear, he made space for an audio-visual department and rented that. His own rent cost was cut in half.
 Things went well. He hired a knowledgeable sales staff, many of whom were musicians or music students. He concentrated on classical music, which became 45 percent of his business, compared with maybe 3 or 4 percent for most record stores. Pop was available, but not emphasized -- both because of the image Mr. Sonin desired and because the profit margin was less than on specially ordered classical recordings.
 "You don't have to be a genius to sell the Rolling Stones," he said.
 
Big Jump in Lease
 Things started to go wrong in 1989, when Mr. Sonin began to have discussions about renewing his lease in 1991. His landlord wanted $450,000 a year, more than four times what he was paying. He didn't see how he could go above $250,000 and began scouting for another location.
 He found one at Broadway and 19th Street, a lively shopping and entertainment area. He spent almost $700,000 to renovate the store. Then one thing after another went wrong.
 It took 11 months for the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission to approve his plans. His lease turned out to be for six years rather than the 17 he thought he had negotiated. But Mr. Sonin finally opened there in October 1990.
 Though he had expected not to make money at first, he was staggered by his losses. His large advertising expenditures, live bands and sweeping searchlights made no difference. People were just buying fewer records. "People who used to come in and buy four or five compact disks were buying one or two," he said. "And people who bought one or two just weren't coming in."
 He was experiencing firsthand an overall trend in the industry. In 1991, the number of all types of recordings sold fell to 801 million from 865.7 million in 1990, the Recording Industry Association of America reported. This year is up only slightly.
 
'A Discretionary Item'
 "A lot of people are out of work, and a lot are afraid of becoming out of work," Mr. Sonin said. "This is a discretionary item."
 Pressures mounted as some creditors demanded cash before delivery. The record companies, which pay most of the cost of record store advertisments, became reluctant to do so. Republic National Bank, Record Hunter's major secured creditor, sued for the money owed it.
 "Frankly I had no defense," Mr. Sonin said. "I had no money."
 The Record Hunter filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Feb. 12, 1992. The creditors committee quickly demanded that it dispose of the money-losing store and try to shore up the Fifth Avenue store.
 But even though the uptown store had weathered other recessions, it now faltered too. The record companies' unwillingness to pay for ads stung deeply, but the worst thing was the inability to get merchandise on credit. Saying no to treasured customers became the order of the day as holiday inventories shrank to $200,000 from a normal $1.5 million.
 A useless irony is that his Fifth Avenue landlord in 1991 lowered the rent enough to have made his disastrous move downtown unnecessary. Mr. Sonin cut staff and hours and did all the other things a businessman does when his back is to the wall.
 "Right up until the end," he said, "I had hopes of turning it around."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jay Sonin, the president and owner of the Record Hunter, which had to close its doors on Fifth Avenue 11 days before Christmas. "On a per-square-foot basis, we did more business than any record store in the world," he declared. "Every single record company told me that over the years." (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RECORD HUNTER

ORGANIZATION: RECORD HUNTER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MUSIC STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (78%); FRANCHISING (76%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (71%); INVENTORIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: SONIN, JAY; MARTIN, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



128 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN MOSCOW: Bush and Yeltsin Sign Pact Making Deep Missile Cuts;
It Would Reduce Atom Arsenals About 75%

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3

 BODY:
With a flourish of oratory and a dash of wistfulness, Presidents Bush and Boris N. Yeltsin signed a treaty today calling for the most significant rollback yet in the formidable nuclear arsenal of the cold war.
 The signing ceremony in the richly embellished St. Vladimir Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace was the centerpiece of a two-day "working visit" that also marked Mr. Bush's last curtain call in the East-West drama that defined so much of his presidency. 
The new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II, called on the two nuclear giants to eliminate almost three-quarters of their 20,000-odd nuclear warheads by 2003, scrapping some of their most threatening weapons. President Yeltsin called the treaty "the core of the system of global security guarantees." [Excerpts from the press conference, page A8.]
 
A Major Threat Removed
 The process includes the total elimination of the most formidable weapon yet concocted, the multi-warhead land-based missile. These missiles, which can each launch many separately aimed nuclear warheads, form the backbone of Russia's arsenal. A senior American official declared that in bringing these weapons to an end "once and for all," the treaty would eliminate "that dreaded thing called the first strike."
 The treaty, to be completed in two phases, also calls for deep cuts in missiles launched from submarines and bombers, the main pillar of America's nuclear deterrent.
 Though by far the most extensive disarmament treaty ever signed, the bulk of Start II was negotiated in a mere six months, compared with the decade it took for each of the earlier strategic arms limitation treaties, known as SALT, and the first strategic arms reduction treaty. The speed of the feat seemed to show what the treaty itself termed "the new realities that have transformed the political and strategic relations between the Parties."
 
'Centuries-Old Dream'
 Neither President skimped on hyperbole in prepared statements read before aides and reporters who had witnessed the signing.
 Mr. Yeltsin said: "It is not every century that history gives us an opportunity to witness and participate in an event that is so significant in scale and consequences. The treaty signed today represents a major step toward fulfilling mankind's centuries-old dream of disarmament."
 Mr. Bush said: "We meet at the beginning of a new year and at a moment that is also a new era for our two nations and for the world. We stand together today in this great city at the threshold of a new world of hope, a widening circle of freedom for us and for our children."
 But the first reaction in the Russian media was a warning not to "pop champagne corks yet." In its report on the summit meeting, a Russian television news program noted that the Ukrainian Parliament seemed to be moving further from ratifying the first Start treaty, a prerequisite for the new one to go into effect.
 
Resistance in Moscow
The commentary further noted that despite Mr. Yeltsin's assurances to the contrary, the conservative Russian Parliament could also balk at ratifying a treaty that many conservative Russians might view as lopsided in favor of the United States.
 There were other dramas that the summit pomp also failed to conceal.
 First was the fact that Mr. Bush has only numbered days left in his presidency.
 In 17 days, the treaty he signed and the American-Russian relationship that took shape under him would be passed on to President-elect Bill Clinton.
 Both presidents stressed that Mr. Clinton had endorsed their efforts, and Mr. Yeltsin announced that he had sent a letter to the next American President urging that they meet "in a neutral place" as soon as possible after the Inauguration.
 
A Good-Bye for Bush
 But Mr. Yeltsin made a point of paying a warm tribute "to my colleague and friend, George," and there were some who thought they spotted a misting of Mr. Bush's eyes when the burly Russian turned to him and said, "Spasibo, George" -- "Thank you, George."
 That note of farewell weaved through Mr. Bush's entire trip, first in Somalia, where the President spent New Year's with troops bringing relief supplies, and this evening in Paris, where Mr. Bush was to dine with Francois Mitterrand, the French President.
 On his arrival in Moscow from Somalia, Mr. Bush was joined by his wife, Barbara, by James A. Baker 3d, his former Secretary of State, and by Brent Scowcroft, his national security adviser, giving the proceedings the air of a last reunion.
 The ornate trappings of past summits were scrapped in favor of a low-key "working meeting" that included only one relatively restrained banquet and the signing ceremony. The only unofficial activity was a brief tour of the Kremlin by the two Presidents and their wives, during which they dropped in on one of the series of annual New Year's spectacles for children.
 
Santa Backs the Treaty
 As the leaders walked in, Grandfather Frost -- the Russian Santa Claus -- intoned, "Today, children, a wonderful treaty will be signed, which will make all our lives easier."
 But with Russia closed down for a long New Year's weekend, during which no newspapers were published, many Russians were barely aware that the American president was in their midst.
 One who was quite aware was Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet president. A senior aide to Mr. Gorbachev, Anatoly Chernyayev, expressed dismay to Reuters that Mr. Bush totally ignored his former partner in detente, especially now that the American had "nothing to lose."
 
Standing on the Tank
 But Mr. Bush seemed more keen to claim a new garland than to delve in the past. "Today the cold war is over, and for the first time in history, an American President has set foot in a democratic Russia," he declared.
 He then heaped praise on Mr. Yeltsin, "for your unwavering commitment to democratic reform and for the history you've written since the heroic day in August '91 when you climbed atop that tank to defend Russia's democratic destiny."
 That kind of tribute was one reason Mr. Yeltsin had pushed for the summit meeting at the start of a new year. He had concluded the last one with a humiliating drubbing at the Congress of Peoples' Deputies in December, when he was forced to jettison Yegor T. Gaidar, a market-oriented economist, as his chief of Government and to name in his stead a conservative manager, Viktor Chernomyrdin.
 Mr. Chernomyrdin sat impassively alongside Vice President Aleksandr Rutskoi, another political thorn in Mr. Yeltsin's side, as the Russian President reported that he had "assured" Mr. Bush that the new Prime Minister would continue "on the same road of reforms."
 The first question to Mr. Yeltsin by a Russian reporter highlighted another problem he faces, the resistance the increasingly hard-line Parliament might show to ratifying the treaty.
 Die-hard Communists and far-right Russian nationalists resent what they perceive as Mr. Yeltsin's kowtowing to the West and have actively resisted his foreign policy, including his disarmament efforts.
 "I am not going to conceal from you that a certain part of the deputies are against the treaty," Mr. Yeltsin said. But he insisted they were a minority, and that the treaty would be approved.
 Both presidents went to some length to claim that the treaty was fair to both sides. Senior American officials noted that it included concessions not considered before, like letting the Russians peek at sections of the B-2 bomber to see how many nuclear bombs it could carry.
 The reductions called for in Start II are to come in two phases: the first within seven years after the treaty goes into effect, and the second by 2003 -- or sooner if the United States can help Russia pay the costs of eliminating strategic weapons.
 
Strongest U.S. Suit
 But Russian critics were certain to decry the total loss of their vaunted SS-18 missile, which can carry up to 10 independently targeted warheads, while America gets to keep a portion of its submarine-based missiles.
 Mr. Yeltsin protested that even after the reductions, Russia would have 3,500 warheads, more than any power other than the United States. "This is a powerful shield, which is capable of defending Russia in case of an unexpected aggression from any side," he declared.
 "May I simply add that we do not view this as a one-sided treaty at all," Mr. Bush said. "We view it as balanced and I think that history will record it as such."
 Even more worrisome was the position of Ukraine. Like Belarus and Kazakhstan, the other republics with nuclear missiles stationed on their territory, the Ukrainian Government has agreed to observe the first Start treaty and to transfer nuclear weapons to Russia for dismantling. But the Ukrainian Parliament has so far failed to ratify Start I, demanding that it first receive ample compensation and security guarantees against Russia.
 The Ukrainian President, Leonid M. Kravchuk, who has repeatedly assured Western and Russian leaders that Ukraine will come through, issued a statement today hailing Start II as a "momentous event."
 But Mr. Kravchuk gave no date for his Parliament to take up disarmament. Instead, he called for negotiations with Russia on "a wide range of technical and financial questions" related to the nuclear weapons.
ARMS TREATY HIGHLIGHTS
 The Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty signed yesterday by President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin calls for a two-thirds reduction in the strategic nuclear arsenals of the United States and Russia by the year 2003. Each side would end up with 3,000 to 3,500 warheads. These are some of the major provisions:
 -- A ban on all long-range land-based missiles with multiple nuclear warheads, long regarded as the most destabilizing weapons. That means elimination of Russia's SS-18 missile, the centerpiece of its nuclear forces. Moscow now has 308 of the 10-warhead weapons, and was already committed to dismantle half of them under the arms treaty signed in 1991. The United States would have to scrap or modify its 50 MX missiles, which have 10 warheads each.
 -- Russia may retain -- and reuse for basing other missiles -- 90 of the silos that now house the SS-18s.
 -- Russia may convert 105 of its 170 SS-19 missiles, which now have six warheads apiece, to single-warhead weapons. The United States' Minuteman III missiles, which carry three warheads, may be modified to carry a single warhead.
 -- The United States would have to cut by about half the number of warheads it has on submarine-launched missiles, traditionally the area in which the United States enjoyed the greatest advantage. The number is to drop from 3,456 to 1,728.
 -- The United States would grant Russian inspectors access to its long-range nuclear bomber fleet to verify the types and numbers of weapons being carried.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin exchanging pens after signing the arms treaty in Moscow. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); President Bush, his wife, Barbara, and President Boris N. Yeltsin attending a children's New Year's party in Moscow. When the leaders arrived, Grandfather Frost, left, the Russian Santa, said, "Today, children, a wonderful treaty will be signed, which will make all our lives easier." (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND
DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



129 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN MOSCOW: Bush and Yeltsin Sign Pact Making Deep Missile Cuts;
It Would Reduce Atom Arsenals About 75%

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3

 BODY:
With a flourish of oratory and a dash of wistfulness, Presidents Bush and Boris N. Yeltsin signed a treaty today calling for the most significant rollback yet in the formidable nuclear arsenal of the cold war.
 The signing ceremony in the richly embellished St. Vladimir Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace was the centerpiece of a two-day "working visit" that also marked Mr. Bush's last curtain call in the East-West drama that defined so much of his presidency. 
The new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II, called on the two nuclear giants to eliminate almost three-quarters of their 20,000-odd nuclear warheads by 2003, scrapping some of their most threatening weapons. President Yeltsin called the treaty "the core of the system of global security guarantees." [Excerpts from the press conference, page A8.]
 
A Major Threat Removed
 The process includes the total elimination of the most formidable weapon yet concocted, the multi-warhead land-based missile. These missiles, which can each launch many separately aimed nuclear warheads, form the backbone of Russia's arsenal. A senior American official declared that in bringing these weapons to an end "once and for all," the treaty would eliminate "that dreaded thing called the first strike."
 The treaty, to be completed in two phases, also calls for deep cuts in missiles launched from submarines and bombers, the main pillar of America's nuclear deterrent.
 Though by far the most extensive disarmament treaty ever signed, the bulk of Start II was negotiated in a mere six months, compared with the decade it took for each of the earlier strategic arms limitation treaties, known as SALT, and the first strategic arms reduction treaty. The speed of the feat seemed to show what the treaty itself termed "the new realities that have transformed the political and strategic relations between the Parties."
 
'Centuries-Old Dream'
 Neither President skimped on hyperbole in prepared statements read before aides and reporters who had witnessed the signing.
 Mr. Yeltsin said: "It is not every century that history gives us an opportunity to witness and participate in an event that is so significant in scale and consequences. The treaty signed today represents a major step toward fulfilling mankind's centuries-old dream of disarmament."
 Mr. Bush said: "We meet at the beginning of a new year and at a moment that is also a new era for our two nations and for the world. We stand together today in this great city at the threshold of a new world of hope, a widening circle of freedom for us and for our children."
 But the first reaction in the Russian media was a warning not to "pop champagne corks yet." In its report on the summit meeting, a Russian television news program noted that the Ukrainian Parliament seemed to be moving further from ratifying the first Start treaty, a prerequisite for the new one to go into effect.
 
Resistance in Moscow
The commentary further noted that despite Mr. Yeltsin's assurances to the contrary, the conservative Russian Parliament could also balk at ratifying a treaty that many conservative Russians might view as lopsided in favor of the United States.
 There were other dramas that the summit pomp also failed to conceal.
 First was the fact that Mr. Bush has only numbered days left in his presidency.
 In 17 days, the treaty he signed and the American-Russian relationship that took shape under him would be passed on to President-elect Bill Clinton.
 Both presidents stressed that Mr. Clinton had endorsed their efforts, and Mr. Yeltsin announced that he had sent a letter to the next American President urging that they meet "in a neutral place" as soon as possible after the Inauguration.
 
A Good-Bye for Bush
 But Mr. Yeltsin made a point of paying a warm tribute "to my colleague and friend, George," and there were some who thought they spotted a misting of Mr. Bush's eyes when the burly Russian turned to him and said, "Spasibo, George" -- "Thank you, George."
 That note of farewell weaved through Mr. Bush's entire trip, first in Somalia, where the President spent New Year's with troops bringing relief supplies, and this evening in Paris, where Mr. Bush was to dine with Francois Mitterrand, the French President.
 On his arrival in Moscow from Somalia, Mr. Bush was joined by his wife, Barbara, by James A. Baker 3d, his former Secretary of State, and by Brent Scowcroft, his national security adviser, giving the proceedings the air of a last reunion.
 The ornate trappings of past summits were scrapped in favor of a low-key "working meeting" that included only one relatively restrained banquet and the signing ceremony. The only unofficial activity was a brief tour of the Kremlin by the two Presidents and their wives, during which they dropped in on one of the series of annual New Year's spectacles for children.
 
Santa Backs the Treaty
 As the leaders walked in, Grandfather Frost -- the Russian Santa Claus -- intoned, "Today, children, a wonderful treaty will be signed, which will make all our lives easier."
 But with Russia closed down for a long New Year's weekend, during which no newspapers were published, many Russians were barely aware that the American president was in their midst.
 One who was quite aware was Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet president. A senior aide to Mr. Gorbachev, Anatoly Chernyayev, expressed dismay to Reuters that Mr. Bush totally ignored his former partner in detente, especially now that the American had "nothing to lose."
 
Standing on the Tank
 But Mr. Bush seemed more keen to claim a new garland than to delve in the past. "Today the cold war is over, and for the first time in history, an American President has set foot in a democratic Russia," he declared.
 He then heaped praise on Mr. Yeltsin, "for your unwavering commitment to democratic reform and for the history you've written since the heroic day in August '91 when you climbed atop that tank to defend Russia's democratic destiny."
 That kind of tribute was one reason Mr. Yeltsin had pushed for the summit meeting at the start of a new year. He had concluded the last one with a humiliating drubbing at the Congress of Peoples' Deputies in December, when he was forced to jettison Yegor T. Gaidar, a market-oriented economist, as his chief of Government and to name in his stead a conservative manager, Viktor Chernomyrdin.
 Mr. Chernomyrdin sat impassively alongside Vice President Aleksandr Rutskoi, another political thorn in Mr. Yeltsin's side, as the Russian President reported that he had "assured" Mr. Bush that the new Prime Minister would continue "on the same road of reforms."
 The first question to Mr. Yeltsin by a Russian reporter highlighted another problem he faces, the resistance the increasingly hard-line Parliament might show to ratifying the treaty.
 Die-hard Communists and far-right Russian nationalists resent what they perceive as Mr. Yeltsin's kowtowing to the West and have actively resisted his foreign policy, including his disarmament efforts.
 "I am not going to conceal from you that a certain part of the deputies are against the treaty," Mr. Yeltsin said. But he insisted they were a minority, and that the treaty would be approved.
 Both presidents went to some length to claim that the treaty was fair to both sides. Senior American officials noted that it included concessions not considered before, like letting the Russians peek at sections of the B-2 bomber to see how many nuclear bombs it could carry.
 The reductions called for in Start II are to come in two phases: the first within seven years after the treaty goes into effect, and the second by 2003 -- or sooner if the United States can help Russia pay the costs of eliminating strategic weapons.
 
Strongest U.S. Suit
 But Russian critics were certain to decry the total loss of their vaunted SS-18 missile, which can carry up to 10 independently targeted warheads, while America gets to keep a portion of its submarine-based missiles.
 Mr. Yeltsin protested that even after the reductions, Russia would have 3,500 warheads, more than any power other than the United States. "This is a powerful shield, which is capable of defending Russia in case of an unexpected aggression from any side," he declared.
 "May I simply add that we do not view this as a one-sided treaty at all," Mr. Bush said. "We view it as balanced and I think that history will record it as such."
 Even more worrisome was the position of Ukraine. Like Belarus and Kazakhstan, the other republics with nuclear missiles stationed on their territory, the Ukrainian Government has agreed to observe the first Start treaty and to transfer nuclear weapons to Russia for dismantling. But the Ukrainian Parliament has so far failed to ratify Start I, demanding that it first receive ample compensation and security guarantees against Russia.
 The Ukrainian President, Leonid M. Kravchuk, who has repeatedly assured Western and Russian leaders that Ukraine will come through, issued a statement today hailing Start II as a "momentous event."
 But Mr. Kravchuk gave no date for his Parliament to take up disarmament. Instead, he called for negotiations with Russia on "a wide range of technical and financial questions" related to the nuclear weapons.
ARMS TREATY HIGHLIGHTS
 The Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty signed yesterday by President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin calls for a two-thirds reduction in the strategic nuclear arsenals of the United States and Russia by the year 2003. Each side would end up with 3,000 to 3,500 warheads. These are some of the major provisions:
 -- A ban on all long-range land-based missiles with multiple nuclear warheads, long regarded as the most destabilizing weapons. That means elimination of Russia's SS-18 missile, the centerpiece of its nuclear forces. Moscow now has 308 of the 10-warhead weapons, and was already committed to dismantle half of them under the arms treaty signed in 1991. The United States would have to scrap or modify its 50 MX missiles, which have 10 warheads each.
 -- Russia may retain -- and reuse for basing other missiles -- 90 of the silos that now house the SS-18s.
 -- Russia may convert 105 of its 170 SS-19 missiles, which now have six warheads apiece, to single-warhead weapons. The United States' Minuteman III missiles, which carry three warheads, may be modified to carry a single warhead.
 -- The United States would have to cut by about half the number of warheads it has on submarine-launched missiles, traditionally the area in which the United States enjoyed the greatest advantage. The number is to drop from 3,456 to 1,728.
 -- The United States would grant Russian inspectors access to its long-range nuclear bomber fleet to verify the types and numbers of weapons being carried.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin exchanging pens after signing the arms treaty in Moscow. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); President Bush, his wife, Barbara, and President Boris N. Yeltsin attending a children's New Year's party in Moscow. When the leaders arrived, Grandfather Frost, left, the Russian Santa, said, "Today, children, a wonderful treaty will be signed, which will make all our lives easier." (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND
DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



130 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
In the Speech by the Mayor, the Message Will be in the Margins

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
WHAT is the state of a city that allowed a 5-month-old boy to die of neglect, despite warnings, and a Bronx storekeeper to be gunned down defending his family?
 Mayor David N. Dinkins's State of the City speech today promises to address two related themes: the welfare of children, who represent the city's future, and the plight of small businesses, which are taxed to subsidize the growing proportion of New Yorkers who cannot afford to pay for municipal services. Yet any agenda that neglects the consequences of guns and drugs can only marginally improve the lot of children or of small businesses in New York. 
What's a mayor to do? He commands an army of police officers larger than the American force in Somalia, but he lacks the jurisdiction or the mandate to disarm neighborhood warlords. He inherits social problems that are national in scope, but he has to cope at the sufferance of Washington, which has been insensitive, and of Albany, which has been insufficiently responsive (though, as the city's first black Mayor, he has largely escaped blame for publicized cases of child abuse that would certainly have provoked deeper outrage against a white Mayor).
 After finishing his first year as Mayor, Mr. Dinkins acknowledged that his discretion had been limited largely to reshaping about two-tenths of one percent of the city's nearly $30 billion budget. "It may be that you affect things at the margins," he said then, "but when things get tight, the margins matter a hell of a lot."
 The Dinkins administration has often said that good government is the best politics. That theme is likely to echo in the speech Mr. Dinkins is to deliver today as he begins a mayoral-election year that, coupled with races for local school boards and the first full terms on the expanded City Council, holds the prospect of being as divisive as the last mayoral election appeared to be unifying.
 Despite the administration's boast that New York is "roaring" back, Mr. Dinkins will temper expectations by reminding his constituents that the recession continues to inhibit him from providing all the services he promised. Still, he will recite a scorecard of promises made and kept and his vision of those that remain to be redeemed.
 His highest priority is to balance the budget. If he has failed so far to achieve fundamental restructuring -- last year's buzzword of government reform -- then he has, at least, avoided the early threat of a state takeover of the city's fiscal prerogatives, defied many skeptics and even won the public praise of some others.
 To most New Yorkers, though, a balanced budget is a bulky abstraction. So, while accepting credit for what some people view as an accomplishment and others consider a basic duty, Mr. Dinkins will focus instead on more widely appreciated matters. Despite the toll that the recession has taken on tax revenues, he will recall, his administration began decentralizing government services to deliver them more visibly and, presumably, more effectively -- often in conjunction with a Council that he has begun, if begrudgingly, to accept as a full partner.
 First, the administration dramatically expanded community policing as a strategy and started providing the manpower to achieve it. Whether modest declines in recorded crime are attributable to that strategy is arguable. What's certain is that if crime had increased, the Mayor would have gotten the blame.
 Responding to state prodding, the city is expanding health-care services at the neighborhood level through a growing program called Communicare. Mr. Dinkins also plans to nearly double the number of so-called beacon schools, which remain open longer and also provide children and their parents with a range of social services. Also, he hopes to find enough funds to let branch libraries open six days a weeks for the first time in decades.
 Mr. Dinkins also is proposing to reduce some of the impediments to small businesses, which are not only synonymous with middle-class entrepreneurship but also can create entry-level jobs for the rest of his constituents. Expect some exemptions on commercial-rent taxes and some constraints on ticketing for minor violations.
 Expressing hope for the future, the Mayor will hark back to a productive partnership between the city's first Italian-American Mayor, Fiorello H. La Guardia, and a new administration in Washington that helped lift New York City out of the depression by doling out New Deal largess.
 The analogy may not be apt. La Guardia benefited, in part, because the Roosevelt Administration preferred him to the Democratic organization controlled by Tammany Hall. And four decades later, when Mayor Abraham D. Beame was seeking a second term, his early support for Jimmy Carter was not returned in kind.
 Still, the Clinton Administration and its cast of New Yorkers has the potential to help the Mayor whose political career has been built on surpassing low expectations. Mr. Dinkins was asked once whether his election would raise false hopes that he could never fulfill. Perhaps, he replied, but false hope is better than no hope at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION MAYORS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



131 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN MOSCOW: Bush and Yeltsin Sign Pact Making Deep Missile Cuts;
A Last Treaty Of Its Kind

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 3

 BODY:
If nostalgia enveloped George Bush on his 25th and probably final foreign adventure as President, there was also some nostalgia for the old sureties of traditional arms control.
 Given its very sweep, the second Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start II, is likely to be the last agreement of its kind. It represents both the triumph and the limit of two-way negotiations on arms control in a world that is no longer bipolar. 
The Soviet Union may have been a totalitarian menace, but its military commanders -- especially compared with the military commanders in some of the world's current trouble spots -- were responsible professionals who knew the dangers of the weapons they brandished or faced, and who could largely be expected to keep to the letter of the agreements they signed, however long or hard the negotiation.
 
New Cast of Nuclear Powers
 There was no fuss then about ratification by parliaments or any need to assuage the wounded pride of new states, like Ukraine, that woke up as nuclear powers and started to like the way it looked in the mirror.
 Each difficult, incremental treaty on the road to Start II felt momentous -- not because arms were reduced in any meaningful way, but because the gap of ideology and misperceptions crossed by the superpowers was so cavernous and the rope across it seemed so thin.
 The treaty is a legitimately momentous agreement, around which President Bush, President Boris N. Yeltsin and their speech writers did their best to spin flourishes of oratory about peace, children, trust and brotherhood. But there was a curious lack of moment.
 This odd fact was caused in part bythe haste of negotiation, and in part by Russia's impoverished condition, as an imploded empire reaching for aid and acceptance. Russia's diminished status seemed to intensify Mr. Bush's, even though he is a lame-duck President.
 But there is a deep, underlying sense that the new world is not only more complicated, but also considerably more volatile than the old. The end of the cold war straitjacket has meant the start of conflicts based on old nationalisms and economic rivalries, just as the collapse of the old fears of mutual assured destruction and nuclear holocaust has made the world safe for conventional war.
 
Disagreement Over Serbs
 As much as Mr. Bush and Mr. Yeltsin talked of cooperation and partnership, they clearly have their disagreements over how to deal with Serbian aggression in the former Yugoslavia. Mr. Yeltsin must face Russian conservatives and some nationalists who say they feel that he has already betrayed their "Serbian brethren" as well as old Soviet allies in Iraq, Syria, Cuba and elsewhere.
 The shelling over Mogadishu, Somalia, while Mr. Bush spent Friday night on an American naval vessel offshore was a reminder of the limits of relief intervention and feel-good gestures that Russian-American amity cannot solve. In Cambodia, where Washington and Moscow brokered a peace treaty through the United Nations Security Council, the Khmer Rouge's blatant defiance of that treaty and their continual kidnapping of United Nations peacekeeping troops promises a future renewal of horrors that could make Serbian behavior seem civilized.
The disclosures of Iraq's long and secret efforts to develop chemical and nuclear weapons, despite intermittent international inspections and despite Baghdad's signature on treaties that should have banned such programs, is a reminder of the actual value of treaties intended to stop the spread of arms. The behavior of Western companies that knowingly sold advanced machinery to Iraq that could be used for weapons-making raises questions about how former Soviet companies and their skilled scientists will act in a free-market system with porous border controls.
 
Future Tasks Cited
 Senior American officials here spoke of the future tasks of arms control, pointing to the Chemical Weapons Convention, scheduled to be signed shortly in Paris, and the effort to extend the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty beyond 1995.
 But they also understand how difficult Start II will be to ratify and carry out, even assuming that Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan follow through on their pledges to become non-nuclear states. According to a study by the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, the United States and Russia each employ more than a million people to build, field and maintain their nuclear arsenals. Dismantling these structures will present fundamental political, economic and environmental problems. Dismantling the weapons themselves, plus thousands of tactical nuclear weapons, is full of dangers.
 The Harvard study estimates that the Russians will have to destroy 100,000 metric tons of liquid rocket propellant, which explodes on contact with air, as well as safely transport, store and protect the highly prized nuclear material in all those warheads.
 Washington has promised direct financial and technical aid to Moscow and Kiev for these purposes, but the cost of dismantling these arsenals safely is likely to be shocking, diplomats suggest, far in excess of the initial American installment of $800 million.
 
Democracy as Arms Control
 One senior American official said wanly that "democracy is the best form of arms control," arguing that democratic nations do not start wars.
 But it is always possible, as Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia made clear last month in his stunning mock speech in Stockholm, that the Russian Government may one day end up in the hands of extreme nationalist, anti-Western politicians or military men who will treat Start II much as President Saddam Hussein of Iraq treated his solemn commitments.
 Another American official cautioned that there were limits to Washington's ability to influence events here or even to control how Russia carries out the treaty.
 "Both the financial obligations and the willingness to undertake the task are responsibilities that Russia and the other parties are accepting themselves," he said. "It is the Russian people and their leadership in this present instance who want to put some of the worst and most destabilizing aspects of the nuclear age behind us and accept that responsibility. We can help, but we're by no means the principal actor."
LEASHING WEAPONS: 30 YEARS OF PACTS
 August 1963 (Limited Test Ban Treaty): Prohibits nuclear testing or any other nuclear explosions in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water.
January 1967 (Outer Space Treaty): Prohibits sending nuclear weapons into Earth orbit, placing nuclear weapons on celestial bodies or stationing them in outer space.
July 1968 (Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty): Prohibits the transfer of nuclear weapons to other countries and prohibits helping countries without nuclear weapons to make or or acquire them. May 1972 (Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty): Bans space-based defensive missile systems and limits the United States and Soviet Union to one ground-based defensive missile site each.
July 1974 (Threshold Test Ban Treaty): The Soviet Union and United States agree to limit underground nuclear weapons tests.
June 1979 (Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty): The first formal strategic arms treaty sets an initial overall limit of 2,400 intercontinental ballistic missile launchers, submarine-launched missiles, heavy bombers and air-to-surface missiles, with the ceiling to be lowered in stages later.
December 1987 (Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty): Provides for the dismantling of all Soviet and American medium- and shorter-range land-based missiles and establishes a system of weapons inspection to guard against violations.
November 1990 (Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty): Originally negotiated between the members of NATO and the Warsaw Pact, the treaty limits the number of tanks, artillery, armored combat vehicles, combat aircraft and combat helicopters that each side is allowed to maintain in Europe.
July 1991 (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty - Start I): Brings the number of Soviet long-range nuclear warheads down from 11,012 to 6,163 and the United States warheads from 12,646 to 8,556.
January 1993 (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty - Start II): Slashes the superpowers' arsenals to a third of their current size. The American arsenal will be cut to 3,500 warheads and bombs, while the Russians will be down to 3,000 warheads and bombs. The reductions are to be carried out by 2003.
(Source: Arms Control Association for warhead numbers for Start I and II.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND
DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993



132 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: The Boomlet Generation

BYLINE: By Alexander Abrams and David Lipsky; Alexander Abrams is a lawyer. David Lipsky is author of "Three Thousand Dollars," a collection of stories.

 BODY:
Notice to advertisers: Thanks, but no thanks. Draw no conclusions from the Grunge Kids featured in Business Week's recent cover story, "Move Over, Boomers," about selling to people under 30, or from the lead article in The Atlantic last month, which proposes to call all of us "Thirteeners" (the 13th American generation, with all the bad luck the number implies).
There are great differences between people who left college in the 1980's and people leaving college now. If you want to reach our generation, older than 24 and younger than 32, do not address your products to the befuddled characters from the movie "Singles." 
 We have been waiting to be noticed, it's true. We've gotten a bum rap. But we're not the younger Grunge Kids. No one we know listens to Pearl Jam or Nirvana. No one we know read Douglas Coupland's "Generation X" with anything approaching the sympathy and recognition these articles suggest.
Our movies were "Wall Street" and "St. Elmo's Fire" (sad to say). Our music is 10,000 Maniacs and Tracy Chapman and R.E.M. On TV, we watch "Seinfeld," not "In Living Color"; when we saw "Beverly Hills 90210" we were amused at how unironically it treated adolescence. The John Hughes films that spelled us through our own teen-age years were more incisive and subversive, suggesting that high school was just another phase to get through, another party to stylishly attend. Our hero is still David Letterman and we admire (politically) Russ Feingold and Bill Clinton. We are like you.
Call us Boomlets, if you have to call us anything. Generations seem to break down most effectively along the decade of college graduation. We left school under Ronald Reagan in the wish-fulfillment 80's. If anything, we didn't dislike the Baby Boomers' values; we disliked the Boomers for getting all the stuff we wanted. We became adults in a period of economic expansion (fueled, it turned out, in one of the more rotten tricks played on us, by the future earning power of our entire generation), and we were ready to take our piece of the pie.
If we were criticized for nihilism, we were criticized for having no scruples in our pursuit of success, not for having no ambition. Remember the despairing articles they kept writing about us five years ago? We're the ones who bought clothes from J. Crew and Tweeds. We're the ones who had credit cards sent to our mailboxes at college. We wanted to have houses by the beach, Volvos or Saab convertibles in our garages.
There is a line of John Updike's, about his own quiet, ambitious 50's generation: "We saw youth not as a license for freedom, but to act respectfully to our elders and then imitate them at a safe distance." That sounds like us. Our friends are in graduate school or advertising, with smaller apartments than they'd like and less job security than their parents are comfortable with, but we're still waiting our turn. (The only nice thing about the recent articles is that they've made it less confusing to our families why some of us have had to move back home.)
So please, let's do this by decade of college graduation. The only people we know who are like the subjects of these articles are the Cuspers, students who graduated in the last years of the 80's and the first years of the 90's. They're in a bind. The stock market crashed while they were in college, so they've had to jettison one set of values (get ahead no matter what the cost), in favor of another (you can't get ahead, no matter how hard you try). When they're with us, they talk like adults. When they're with kids a few years younger, they talk like Shannen Doherty in "Beverly Hills 90210."
No, it's the Grunge Kids, people who got out of college in the last two or three years, who are hogging all the attention. They were reared with unlimited TV privileges, VCR's and a stunted sense of intellectual curiosity. Their nihilism is true nihilism: They actually don't care where they end up. They are so different from every generation that's ever come before that they've shocked national magazines into action.
But, advertisers, please keep in mind; they're startling to us, too. At parties, we have a great deal to say to people five or 10 years older than we are. We have common ground. But it is hard to find any common ground with people even two years younger than we are. They speak a language similar to ours -- like Australians -- but their cultural references and ambitions are foreign. We'd hate to be classified with them forever.
Any generation that presumes to include both George Stephanopoulos and Marky Mark is simply not functioning as a generation. Imagine Mr. Stephanopoulos showing up for work with Soundgarden blasting out of a Walkman, a nose ring and a "Go, Bill" shoulder tattoo, and you get the idea.
So thanks, but no thanks. The members of the Boomlet generation are like middle children: The people ahead of us, the Boomers, got the inheritance; and now our noisy, younger siblings are getting all the attention. We're getting passed over, with all of our easily identifiable tastes and our irresistible purchasing power.
The difference between the Grunge Kids and us is that they seem never to want to become adults. We do, and are waiting for the economy to give us a chance to become the adults we once hoped we could be. But in the words of the Whos, who shouted to Horton the Elephant in the Dr. Seuss book we read as children, there's something we'd like to say: "We're here. We're here."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: SAABB (STO) (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS WEEK (MAGAZINE) SAAB AB (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS WEEK (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); GENERATION X (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); TRENDS (62%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ALEXANDER; LIPSKY, DAVID RONALD REAGAN (73%); RUSS FEINGOLD (56%); BILL CLINTON (53%); DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993



133 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Florida Proposes Broad Health Plan

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Arguing that he could not wait for Washington to develop a national plan to control medical costs, Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida today proposed sweeping changes in the state's health-care system that he said were intended to guarantee "full access to quality, affordable health care for every person in Florida" by the end of 1994.
As part of the proposal, called the Florida Health Plan, all 13.5 million residents of the nation's fourth-most-populous state would be offered coverage by nonprofit, state-chartered organizations called Community Health Purchasing Alliances, which would collect health-care premiums and sign contracts with insurers judged to offer the best quality at the best cost. The organizations would be located throughout the state, forming a network of health-care cooperatives intended to encourage competition among providers statewide. 
 "The concept is simple," Mr. Chiles said at a news conference in Tallahassee. "Businesses, individuals and the government pool their money and purchase the best care at the best price. You spread out the risk so that everybody in an area is covered."
 
Managed Competition
 The approach, managed competition, has been promoted by several market-oriented health economists and endorsed by President-elect Bill Clinton, but it has not been tried on a large scale by any state yet.
State officials said hearings would be held around the state this year to determine the extent and level of benefits that will need to be provided under the plan. Mr. Chiles must also convince the State Legislature to endorse several aspects of the plan, including a provision that would exempt the cooperatives from antitrust restrictions. The proposal announced today was the state's response to a mandate last year by the Legislature to have a comprehensive health plan in place by Dec. 31, 1994.
As the Chiles administration announced the proposal today, professional medical organizations and major health providers were guarded in their assessments, particularly about the relationship between costs and quality. And questions remain about how Florida's new plan would mesh with steps the Clinton Administration is expected to take to provide a national health-care plan.
 
Voluntary Enrollment
 State officials said that enrollment in the system would be voluntary but that the combination of lower costs and guaranteed access would encourage individuals as well as corporations to sign up. In the event that an employer chose not to join, they said, individual employees would pay some premiums out of their own pocket, with the remainder paid by state and Federal governments, most likely out of Medicaid funds, if a Federal waiver on the use of the money can be obtained.
Some similar programs that attempt to manipulate the health-care market to harness medical care costs already operate on a limited basis in Orlando, Bradenton and other Florida cities. But Mr. Chiles's proposal would extend health care benefits to an estimated 2.5 million Floridians who he said "have no coverage at all and can't afford to get sick." Officials said most of these people are members of poor working families, and a large proportion of them are children.
Doug Cook, director of the state's Agency for Health Care Administration, said the proposal "would need additional investment" by both the state and Federal governments in its initial phase, estimating the state's maximum contribution at $500 million annually and Washington's at $1 billion. But he argued that "as we guarantee full access, we should be able to reduce costs."
 
No '$10 Aspirins'
 Under a universal health care plan, Mr. Cook said, "there will be no more $10 aspirins" because "the invisible shifting of costs will come to an end." He added that use of the health-care system would become more efficient under the plan because fewer people would resort to "coming through the emergency room door" for basic care. Emergency room care is considerably more expensive than care in a doctor's office.
"We're definitely trying to go toward managed care," Mr. Chiles said in a telephone interview after the plan was announced. He was referring to insurance plans, like health maintenance organizations, in which patients are limited in their choice of doctors and medical decisions are closely scrutinized, an approach some consumers and doctors have resisted. "That's the only way we're going to reduce our costs."
So far managed care plans around the country, while often saving some money, have failed to stem the surge in medical costs, but proponents of the new plan hope that the added element of competition among large groups will squeeze costs even more.
Mr. Chiles also said that "the $31 billion we are now paying for health care in Florida should be enough to run our system if we spend it in the right places."
Gerald M. Soud, a spokesman for the Florida Medical Association, reacting to the proposal, said that although it "appears to reflect many of the health care reform initiatives the F.M.A. has advocated for several years, we do have concerns" whether the changes can be made "without sacrificing quality."
 
'Unachievable' Target Date
 In a statement issued at its headquarters in Jacksonville, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida, a major provider in the state, said that while "competitive managed care is a realistic and proven approach to controlling medical costs," Mr. Chiles' target date "is unachievable." The company also said that "a great deal of work also remains to be done to specify how the Community Health Purchasing Alliances" would "contribute to solving the problems of cost and access."
Mr. Cook said that the Jan 1, 1995, date for implementing the plan was "premised on having a really good and willing partner on the Federal level" who would "either rewrite Federal laws or waive current laws."
At today's news conference, Mr. Chiles, a populist Democrat elected in 1990, said medical costs were rising so rapidly in Florida that the state could not afford to delay action until President-elect Bill Clinton offered the national plan he had promised. He said expenses for public health services now "eat up most of our growth revenue," forcing Florida, which has no state income tax, to limit education, environmental and other programs.
 
'Just Can't Wait'
 "We just can't wait, given what the costs are," Mr. Chiles said.
Like other states, Florida saw the costs of health care skyrocket during the 1980's. Health care expenditures more than tripled in the state, to $31.4 billion in 1990 from $9.4 billion in 1980 and the proportion of the state's gross product spent on medical care rose to 12.8 percent from 8.9 percent.
At the same time, per capita health care expenditures increased 152 percent, to $2,427 annually from $962, and hospital revenue per patient rose 194 percent, to $765 a day from $260. Salaries for state employees rose 64 percent, while the premium for family coverage in the state employee health insurance program increased by a staggering 347 percent, to $3,756 from $840.
Officials on the Clinton transition team have made it clear that they do not favor individual states going off on their own with health care proposals that could upstage and undercut the more sweeping national plan the President-elect has spoken of. But the Florida plan borrows elements from one of the Clinton team's favorite guidebooks, David Osborne's "Reinventing Government" -- for example, the decentralizing of public services.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Florida's Uninsured," shows breakdown of Florida's uninsured, by income and by age group. (Source: Florida Agency for Health Care Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FLORIDA HEALTH PLAN HOLDINGS II LLC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RATES; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICAID (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); 

PERSON: CHILES, LAWTON (GOV); ROHTER, LARRY BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



134 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
DINKINS CITES HIS ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 In a 43-minute State of the City address, Mayor Dinkins declared that New York City was a safer, more just and more fiscally secure place than when he took office -- despite a severe recession that has hampered his government. In a speech that served to lay the groundwork for his re-election campaign, the Mayor defended his record, saying he had delivered on his 1989 campaign promises to be tough on crime and to be a sound fiscal steward. A1.
 THE LIMITS OF COMPASSION
 The scale of the initiatives proposed by Mayor Dinkins in his State of the City address demonstrates the large gap between what he would like to do for many poor and working-class New Yorkers and what the constraints of the city's fiscal circumstances will allow him to do. News Analysis, B2.
 NOMINEE FOR SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION JOB
A former New York City construction, housing and planning official is the leading candidate to head the city's School Construction Authority, officials say. Barry Light would head an authority created in 1988 to cut red tape that for years had delayed construction of new schools. B3.
 
11-year-old girl is shot and wounded in Bronx housing project. B3.
New York City organization helps promote family planning throughout the world. B3.
Strike by building maintenance workers is on hold, for now. B3.
 
 REGION
SHOWING MERCY TO DYING INMATES
 With AIDS now the single greatest cause of death in the New York State prison system, a new state medical parole program may lead to the annual release of about 25 terminally ill prisoners who have the disease. But critics say the early release program is being set at a cruel trickle rather than some larger, more merciful flow needed to deal with the prisons' appalling rise in AIDS fatalities. A1.
 ALTERNATIVE TO CUOMO'S MEDICAID PLAN
 More than a year after Governor Cuomo proposed a state takeover of local Medicaid costs, Senate Republican leaders are poised to offer an alternative plan that would force deep cuts in Medicaid by tying growth in the program to the rise in health-care costs. Unlike Mr. Cuomo's plan, the Republican proposal would not require local governments to cede a share of local tax revenues to the state. B5.
 SENATE AIDE RESIGNS BEFORE BUDGET TALKS
 Just as the New York State Legislature is preparing for a difficult session of budget negotiations, the top aide to the Senate majority leader has announced that he had resigned to work for a New York City hospital and medical school. Paul F. Macielak, co-counsel to Senator Ralph J. Marino and a top health-care negotiator for the Republicans who control the Senate, says he will join New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center as a vice president and vice provost later this month. B5.
 FOCUS ON GLEN RIDGE CASE WITNESS
 The Glen Ridge sex assault trial has resumed after an 11-day recess with a defense lawyer attempting to discredit a prosecution psychiatrist by dwelling on his fees as an expert witness in the case. B5.
 
Neediest Cases B3
Chronicle B4
Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRISONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); PAROLE (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (68%); TAKEOVERS (67%); SHOOTINGS (65%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



135 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles's New Police Chief Gains Good Will but Even More Difficulties

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 4

 BODY:
In his first weeks in office, the city's new police chief, Willie L. Williams, spent so much time visiting citizen groups, political leaders and police roll calls that some members of the Police Commission that appointed him began to worry if he was getting his job done.
But as he reaches the six-month point in his tenure, at the turn of the year, it is clear that Chief Williams has succeeded in generating good will in much of a city that had turned against its police force under the man he replaced, Daryl F. Gates. 
 The stakes riding on the efforts of Chief Williams are high for both him and the city. With Los Angeles still in shock from the rioting last spring, and with the approach of the two racially charged trials related to the riots, the city seems to be pinning its hopes less on elusive economic and social healing than on improved policing.
The City Council and the Mayor's Police Commission have backed Mr. Williams's plans for the department, and he seems to have won the tentative support of many officers who were backers of his combative predecessor.
 
Better Reception for Force
 "There's a general feeling that people want to support him," said Sgt. Andrew Simon, an officer who still regards Mr. Gates as "a great boss." He said many officers wanted Mr. Williams to succeed "because we want to be able to do our job."
Sgt. Dan Pugel, another officer who was loyal to Mr. Gates, said: "With Gates as the leader, the department was constantly under attack. With Gates retired, the department is being favorably received."
Mr. Gates left office unwillingly last summer in the aftermath of the Rodney G. King police beating case and the resulting riots. He is now the host of a radio talk show, where he has made the decision not to talk about his successor.
With his budget and his manpower shrinking, Chief Williams faces mounting difficulties, and is already scaling back his goals.
"Everyone is expecting him to do some miraculous things, and so far no one has given him anything to do it with," said David Dotson, a former deputy chief who retired shortly before Chief Williams took office.
 
Lifting Morale, a Bit
 In an interview in his office, the new Chief acknowledged that some of the difficulties he faced when he took office had grown more complicated.
He must find new ways to police a violent, restive city teetering on the brink of new disorders, and he must do this while trying to reorganize and reinvigorate an underfinanced, understaffed and demoralized department.
"When I came in, morale was the lowest I've ever seen it in a major police department," said Chief Williams, 49 years old, who was police commissioner in Philadelphia before coming here.
"It may have moved up a notch," he said, but added that morale would be further tested this month when he begins shifting 100 officers from behind desks to street patrol. Already, he has made a number of high-level appointments and begun to restructure the department, shaking its hierarchy down to the secretarial level.
Deputy Chief Mark Kroeker agreed with the Chief's assessment, saying, "I honestly think morale has picked up a little bit, but there remains a malaise out there" that has continued since the uproar over the case of Mr. King, the black motorist whose beating by police officers in March 1991 was captured on videotape.
 
2 Explosive Trials
 And on the streets of the city, Chief Williams said, there are continuing tensions as Los Angeles awaits the two court cases early in the year: a Federal civil rights trial of four white officers who were acquitted of assault last April in the King beating, and the trial of three black men accused of beating a white truck driver, Reginald O. Denny, in the rioting that followed those acquittals.
When a small demonstration in support of the Denny defendants escalated into rock-throwing last month, Chief Williams quickly deployed forces in a sort of textbook demonstration of the steps that might have been taken to choke off the rioting last April 29.
With what seemed like a citywide sigh of relief, civic leaders praised his aggressive response.
But Chief Williams realizes that more serious challenges may lie ahead. Among preparatory measures he ordered that were not taken by Chief Gates, a 16-hour program of riot training is being given to the entire force.
The department is also not trying to go it alone in any future civil unrest. Steps are being taken to improve coordination with neighboring police and fire departments, Chief Williams said, adding, "We have to involve all the agencies: health and human services, water and power, people who have trucks, people who have yards, people who have feeding facilities, people who have housing facilities."
 
Recognizing Inequity
 To supplement the broad emergency plans that Chief Gates had in place, Chief Williams said he was working out contingencies so specific that he had separate plans for handling disturbances after each of the two coming trials.
"Deep down inside of me, I don't believe we are going to have any major civil disturbance," said Chief Williams, who is black. "But I'm not naive enough to believe there won't be some problems. We are a big city and this is, unfortunately, America."
In a break with the good guys-bad guys philosophy of his predecessor, he added: "It's part of the definition of America for the 1990's. We are in a social upheaval. Until we manage that upheaval and share a little more of the American dream with everyone, we are going to have these problems."
Chief Williams's problems begin, as in other departments in the city, with his budget.
 
Short of Money and Officers
 He has not been able to win an increase in the $600 million budget for more staffing and equipment, and he has not been able to sidestep a citywide hiring freeze. He had pinned his hopes on a bond measure that would have allowed the hiring of 1,000 more officers, but last November the voters turned it down by a narrow margin. Chief Williams said he hoped that a similar measure would be put on the ballot in a citywide election this spring but that even if it passed no additional officers would be on the streets until 1994.
With about 30 officers a month retiring or leaving their jobs, Chief Williams said, his force has shrunk to about 7,700, from slightly more than 7,900 when he took office in July
This shrinking force hinders Chief Williams's effort to make a fundamental shift in philosophy that he hopes to bring to the department. To police the city as he would like to, he said, he needs 9,500 to 10,000 men and women.
Where Chief Gates was a pioneer in "professional policing," deploying his small force in specialized units for maximum crime-busting impact, Chief Williams is a leading proponent of "community-based policing" in which officers play a preventive role.
 
Encouraging Personal Contact
 "Right now," the Chief said, "they spend all their time going from call to call to call to call. You hang up the receiver and it's another call. Meanwhile that personal contact, getting out there, is not there."
A recent study of the police department found that only 4 percent of the force was on the street at any time. Chief Williams is determined to move more officers onto patrol duty, but he said even that was not so easy a choice.
"You have to understand that if you're slowing the paper functions, if you're slowing down lab analysis, if you're slowing down training, that's the cost of shifting people," he said. "The resources have not risen."
Chief Williams is also dedicated to, as he put it, making his force look more like the city it polices, with more women and more members of minorities hired and promoted.
And as with other uncomfortable changes, he said, he was telling his officers: "You can go downstairs and you can kick the locker and you can bang your head against the wall, but then you've got to come back upstairs, put on your suit and go out and serve the community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "When I came in, morale was the lowest I've ever seen it in a major police department," said Chief Willie L. Williams, head of the Los Angeles police for the last six months. "It may have moved up a notch." (Eduardo Citrinblum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLICE FORCES (94%); RIOTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TRENDS (71%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, WILLIE L (POLICE CHIEF); MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



136 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Contributing From Windfalls To Help the Neediest Cases

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
The conversation at Gail Furman's dinner party last month was ambling along until it hit a roadblock. Between bites of veal marsala and sips of Beaujolais nouveau, Joan B. Furman, the hostess's mother-in-law, kept insisting that Lena Horne had been married to Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Dorothy Schwartz disagreed.
The two decided on a friendly bet, with the loser treating the winner to dinner at a fancy restaurant. Needless to say, Mrs. Furman soon found herself making reservations at Le Bernadin in Manhattan. But then she and Ms. Schwartz reconsidered. Wouldn't the money be better spent, they thought, if it were sent to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund? 
 "This way, we are doing something very 'of the moment,' something quintessentially New York," Mrs. Furman, an educational consultant in Chappaqua, N.Y., said in a letter to the fund. She enclosed the $100 that she might otherwise have spent on a meal of roast monkfish or sea scallops.
Donations to the Neediest Cases sometimes spring from bets and sudden windfalls. The money ends up assisting seven charities that are helping tens of thousands of people struggling with unemployment, homelessness, drug addiction, child abuse and other maladies.
The fund is now conducting its 81st appeal at a time when social-service organizations across New York City must meet growing responsibilities because of the recession. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to seven charities. This year's campaign ends on Feb. 28.
Rebecca A. Pulliam of Manhattan did not need to write a check to the Neediest Cases. She simply signed over the one for $87.50 that she received from New York State for serving jury duty last summer.
"I know it will be properly spent by your fund and appreciate the work you do," she wrote. "As I sent this to you, I think of my two great New York City friends: Rita Smith and Ronnie Hess."
A stroll through midtown Manhattan led to the contribution by Betty Zapolsky of Neponsit, Queens. She was walking on Fifth Avenue near 56th Street when she noticed a folded $20 bill on the sidewalk. She looked around for someone who might have dropped it, but amid the stampeding crowds, her search proved fruitless.
"Thank God I do not need this $20," she wrote. "I feel sorry for the person who lost this money and hope that he or she was also not in great need. Enclosed you will find this $20 plus another $20 I have added as a donation to your fund. May this money fulfill some needs and bring some comforts to the people you help."
 
Previously recorded . . . $2,535,556.02
Recorded yesterday . . . $123,187.62
 
 
Total . . . $2,658,743.64

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND RESTAURANTS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J LENA CALHOUN HORNE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



137 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Subsidies For Hospitals Face Threat

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
A case awaiting the ruling of a Federal judge in Manhattan could threaten the system that New York State has used for nearly a decade to help subsidize hospital care and to give Blue Cross and Blue Shield a modestly more favorable rate than other health insurers.
Several insurance companies and insurance industry associations are challenging the system under a Federal law covering employee benefit programs. They contend that the 1974 Federal statue pre-empts the complex state formula under which health insurers pay hospitals for patient care. 
 The litigation before District Judge Louis J. Freeh centers on two sets of surcharges added to the amount billed for some patient's hospital care. One has been in place for a decade; the other was to take effect last April. Judge Freeh heard arguments in the cases in November and is expected to rule in the next few weeks.
 
Similar Case in New Jersey
 Last May, a ruling in a New Jersey case forced the state to abandon surcharges like New York's. New Jersey lawmakers then decided to impose a health insurance tax and borrow more than $500 million a year from the state unemployment insurance fund to pay for indigent hospital care.
The court action comes amid rumblings of financial catastrophe for health-care providers and insurers alike. Last week, the Cuomo administration granted Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the state's largest health insurer, a rate increase that averages 25.5 percent to stave off a predicted collapse. And as health-care costs have gained prominence on the national agenda, the lawsuits could force New York to follow the example of New Jersey, and abandon containment efforts entirely.
Since 1983, New York has required commercial insurance companies and self-insurance groups to pay a 13 percent surcharge on hospital bills for services to their policyholders. That surcharge has never applied, however, to bills paid by Blue Cross and Blue Shield, health maintenance organizations or Medicaid.
While the surcharge was not imposed explicitly to help pay for the care of indigent or uninsured patients, as the New Jersey surcharge was, it provides more money to hospitals. The Hospital Association of New York State says it brings in $135 million of the hospitals' $16 billion in annual revenue.
Losing the surcharge "would blow up the system," said Carolyn F. Scanlan, the association's executive vice president. In 1991, New York hospitals lost $400 million, she said.
People on both sides of the New York case insist that they do not expect a ruling as far-reaching as the New Jersey one. But several parties to the case said that the judge could go much further than the plaintiffs intended in dismantling the system.
Timothy F. Lyons, a lawyer for the Travelers Insurance Company, one of the plaintiffs, said, "It is possible that the judge could rule very broadly."
 
'This May All Backfire'
 The head of the State Health Department's Division of Health Care Financing, Steven C. Anderman, said: "This may all backfire on the insurers, if the whole system of cost regulation gets thrown out. They could all just face a market system. Then they might pay more, not less."
The Travelers filed suit last May. The Aetna Life Insurance Company, Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company and several insurance industry associations sued in July, and the two cases were combined.
The two more recent surcharges being challenged include an 11 percent surcharge for one year on hospital payments by commercial insurers. and a permanent 9 percent surcharge on hospital bills paid by health maintenance organizations. But the law provided that health maintenance organizations could escape the charge by meeting requirements for cost containment and by enrolling a certain number of Medicaid patients.
 
Surcharges Blocked
 The surcharges were to take effect last April 1, but insurers obtained court orders blocking them until the issue is resolved. State officials said the surcharges would have generated about $60 million in the first year for the state, not the hospitals.
The insurance companies maintain that the entire system of surcharges runs afoul of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or Erisa, which governs employee benefit programs. The law prohibits the states from regulating such programs, and it provides that the money paid into them can be used only to benefit their members.
On May 27, Judge Alfred M. Wolin of United States District Court in Newark, ruled that New Jersey could not impose surcharges, including a 19.1 percent add-on to subsidize care for the indigent, on Erisa plans. The surcharges violated the act, the judge ruled, because they forced the plans to pay for care for non-members.
The New York dispute is complicated by a fundamental disagreement over the scope of the retirement income act. The state defines an Erisa plan as a self-supporting insurance pool, created by an employer or a labor union, that does not rely on a commercial insurance company to pay claims, although a commercial insurer may be hired to administer the program. Judge Wolin applied the same definition in his ruling.
But commercial insurers maintain that any group health insurance policies purchased for a group of workers is also governed by the law. Several H.M.O.'s and the New York State Health Maintenance Organizations Conference intervened in the case, contending that the same is true of their employee health plans.
By the state's logic, two million to three million people in New York belong to health insurance programs covered by the act. State officials could not provide precise figures because they do not oversee the retirement plans, and because many people are covered by more than one policy.
Insurers, however, argue that the Federal law protects the vast majority of the 5 million New Yorkers who have health coverage through commercial insurance companies and the 2.7 million H.M.O. members.
New York has not imposed the surcharges on Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, which insure 12.8 million New Yorkers, to help the insurer overcome a competitive disadvantage. As the state's insurer of last resort, it must provide coverage to any applicant. Other insurers, which have five million customers statewide, have more flexibility in setting premiums and choosing customers.
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, and the New York State Conference of Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans have intervened in the lawsuit on the state's side.
A state law passed in 1992 will impose some of the same open enrollment requirements on commercial insurers, starting April 1. And other insurance companies say that Blue Cross and Blue Shield should lose its exemption from the surcharge. "The 13 percent was, as we understand it, to reward Blue Cross for open enrollment," said Mr. Lyons, of Travelers. With the new law, he said, "a lot of the reasoning for that has gone away."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (93%); EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (67%); METLIFE INSURANCE CO OF CONNECTICUT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HOSPITALS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT ; RATES INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); HOSPITALS (91%); JUDGES (91%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SELF INSURANCE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; FREEH, LOUIS J (JUDGE) LOUIS J FREEH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



138 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Constraint

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
The scale of the initiatives proposed yesterday by Mayor David N. Dinkins in his State of the City address demonstrated the large gap between what Mr. Dinkins would surely like to do for many poor and working-class New Yorkers and what the constraints of the city's fiscal circumstances will allow.
The annual address is traditionally upbeat and self-congratulatory, and seldom more so than in an election year. The speech provides a mayor with an opportunity to court constituencies by offering bold new programs, often tailored to meet the needs of people whose support could prove crucial in the mayoral primaries in September and the general election in November. 
 
 
An Array of Initiatives
 Mr. Dinkins, who plans to run for a second four-year term this year, proposed a smorgasbord of initiatives intended to please everyone from working women seeking day care to small businesses hoping for tax breaks.
But the new or expanded programs outlined by Mr. Dinkins in his 43-minute speech were all relatively inexpensive and small-bore, a recognition, no doubt, that the deep and prolonged recession that has defined his mayoralty precludes more ambitious initiatives.
The Mayor's supporters contended that his choices underscored his priorities and represented an important beginning.
In essence, they said, Mr. Dinkins's message was that he did not have substantial new resources to spend, but that he was telling important constituencies that he would spend it on them if he could.
 
'An Excellent Speech'
 "I thought it was an excellent speech," said Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, who is a longtime Dinkins ally.
"This was a speech with specific commitments," she said. "They are not more symbolic than real. They are real first steps."
Critics of the speech -- including some officials who have been generally supportive of the Mayor -- said his address was heavy on oratory but light on substance.
The City Council President, Andrew J. Stein, who is expected to challenge Mr. Dinkins in the mayoral primary in September, said, "There is nothing in the speech that talks about dealing with substantial reform."
 
Coping With Budget Gap
 The Mayor's supporters argued that an administration struggling to eliminate a $1.7 billion budget gap for the next fiscal year, which begins in July, could not afford the kind of dramatic, innovative and, most of all, expensive new programs that would provide jobs for the unemployed or expanded treatment for drug abusers.
Mr. Dinkins said, for example, that he hoped that President-elect Bill Clinton would create a major new Federal job-training program. He also said New York City could not afford to "sit back and wait for what Washington has to offer." And so the Mayor proposed forming a commission to help the city to use more efficiently its existing resources for job training.
Mr. Dinkins did offer some minor new programs and expansions of some city services, which altogether would cost about $25 million a year in the city's $30 billion annual operating budget. These included small grants to open day-care centers, added hours for libraries and expansion of two programs initiated last year -- using selected schools as all-day community centers and new primary-care medical clinics in poor neighborhoods.
 
New Tax Breaks
 He also proposed two new tax breaks, both involving the unusual and much-maligned city tax on commercial rent. These would cost the city about $35 million next year in forgone revenues.
Some advisers to the Mayor maintained that the significance of the message lay in its choices -- the priorities that Mr. Dinkins was selecting in a time of fiscal duress -- and in what they described as one fundamental change: a new effort to recruit more black New Yorkers for the Police Department and to give city residents a built-in advantage in the selection process for police officers.
Ms. Messinger said the Mayor's proposals -- particularly the new city money for libraries, child care and health clinics, along with the tax breaks to be given to small businesses -- were all in areas "where the Mayor would agree we haven't done enough."
"I see it as responsive to neighborhoods and communities that haven't had their share of the pie," Ms. Messinger added.
 
Addressing Needs
 It remains uncertain, of course, whether the poor and working-class New Yorkers whose needs Mr. Dinkins is trying to address will find his efforts sufficient to support him enthusiastically at the polls later this year, as they did in record numbers in 1989.
The Mayor acknowledged in an interview last July that the city's dire fiscal problems had made it impossible for him to meet the expectations of many of the black and Hispanic New Yorkers who backed him ardently three years ago.
"Many have had such heightened expectations of the wonderful things that would be accomplished," Mr. Dinkins said. "But such things could not be accomplished because of the recession and the Federal withdrawal before that."
The Mayor also indicated that his own expectations had grown more realistic, and he said he hoped that his supporters' had as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STATE OF THE CITY MESSAGE (NYC) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); TRENDS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); WOMEN (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RECESSION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (63%); LEGISLATION (62%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); FINDER, ALAN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



139 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Senate Republicans Set To Offer Medicaid Plan

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 4

 BODY:
More than a year after Gov. Mario M. Cuomo proposed a state takeover of local Medicaid costs, Senate Republican leaders are poised to offer an alternative plan that would force deep cuts in Medicaid by limiting growth in the program to the rise in health-care costs.
Unlike Mr. Cuomo's plan, the Republican proposal would not require local governments to cede a share of local tax revenues to the state. The plan is scheduled to be released publicly on Tuesday. 
 Lobbyists who support the concept of a state takeover of Medicaid costs said today that they were encouraged that the plan puts the Senate on record in support of a takeover for the first time and provides a starting point for negotiations with the Governor and the Assembly. The bad news, they said, is that the plan bears only a faint resemblance to Mr. Cuomo's proposal, meaning the differences will not be easily reconciled. The Assembly, which is controlled by the Democrats, has essentially endorsed Mr. Cuomo's plan.
 
$13.9 Billion for Medicaid
 Under the Governor's proposal, first offered in the fall of 1991, the state would by the year 2000 assume the entire local share of the cost of Medicaid, the main government health program for the poor. In 1991, the last year for which complete figures are available, a total of $13.9 billion was spent on Medicaid in New York, with the Federal Government paying $6.2 billion, or 44.2 percent, the state paying $4.8 billion, or 34.4 percent, and local governments paying $3 billion, or 21.4 percent.
In exchange for the state's assumption of local Medicaid costs, the Cuomo plan calls for the state to take all of the revenue generated by the personal income tax in New York City as well as the revenue generated by up to 1 percentage point of the sales tax in counties outside of the city. The plan also sets annual targets for reducing Medicaid costs.
Local governments presumably would benefit from the Cuomo plan because Medicaid costs, if left unchecked, are expected to grow at a faster rate than local tax revenues.
The Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, and the chairman of the Social Services Committee, Senator Joseph R. Holland of New City, believe that the tax swap is unnecessary, according to the Senate document. Their plan would limit annual Medicaid growth to the average growth in the medical care component of the Consumer Price Index for the previous three years.
 
'Extraordinary Incentives'
 "What the program does is give extraordinary incentives to all of the parties to find a number of ways to bring Medicaid costs down to the C.P.I.," said one Senate aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
From 1993 to 2000, growth would be capped between 6.3 percent and 6.5 percent, according to projections in the Senate plan. Mr. Cuomo's plan accounts for average Medicaid growth of about 12 percent for those years.
The difference in spending between the two plans is stark. Under the Cuomo plan, total state and local spending on Medicaid would be about $18.3 billion in 1999. In the Senate plan it would be about $12.3 billion.
Michael J. Dowling, Mr. Cuomo's director of health, education and human services, called the proposal "a diversion" intended to avoid debate on the Governor's plan.
"I just don't think it works," he said.
 
How to Cut Costs?
 The Senate plan provides only a rough sketch of how to reduce costs by the large amounts that would be needed to keep within the inflation cap.
The state would only assume local Medicaid costs if a local government had reached targets in placing Medicaid recipients in managed-care programs, like health maintenance organizations. It also would not pick up costs for local governments that had failed to meet targets for requiring welfare recipients to find work.
In addition, the plan encourages the privatization of long-term care services, tax credits for purchasers of long-term care insurance, incentives aimed at broadening the provision of primary care, and the establishment of "practice parameters" that would make additional medical testing the exception and not the rule for Medicaid patients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) MEDICAID (95%); TAKEOVERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); SALES TAX (76%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (72%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); SACK, KEVIN

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



140 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: County by County, a Fight Against Bias

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J., Dec. 31

 BODY:
Pradip Kothari still sees the pickup truck riding around town on its enormous tires now and then, and the truck still carries the hand-drawn sneer in the rear window: Dot Buster.
The message, a reference to the bindi, or marriage mark, that some women of Mr. Kothari's Hindu faith wear on their foreheads, is one of a number of slurs and attacks Mr. Kothari has endured over the last couple of years. Once, pellets were shot through the plate-glass windows of his travel agency here; on two other occasions, the windows were shattered with beer bottles. 
 But now, Mr. Kothari and other Hindu immigrants in central New Jersey do not feel as alone in their anger and fear as they once did. Through New Jersey's statewide network of county human relations commissions, Mr. Kothari said, the growing Asian Indian community of northern Middlesex County found a forum for their complaints about anti-immigrant harassment and a means for alerting county and state officials to emerging ethnic tensions on the streets.
The network was formally begun in 1990 when the Florio administration ordered all county prosecutors to help create human relations commissions. It is a vital element in New Jersey's three-year campaign of using education and criminal sanctions against prejudice. The last piece of the network was put into place in November with the first organizing meeting of a human relations commission in Hunterdon County.
Patricia Campbell Glenn, New York regional director of the United States Justice Department's Community Relations Service, said she believes New Jersey's approach has never been tried before.
"I travel around the country quite a bit, and I have not seen this approach anywhere else," she said. "In New York and other states, I know, there are activities of this kind conducted on an official level by the state, but New Jersey is unique in that it has a county-by-county emphasis that is very broad-based."
The county panels, with no staffs, no salaries and no political ties, are made up of the county's top law-enforcement officials, school officials, church and community leaders and representatives of racial and religious groups. They generally meet once a month, and since anyone can ask to speak, they are intended to inform the top county officials about street-level concerns on race and prejudice.
Robert Freda, New Jersey program director for the National Conference of Christians and Jews, which helped organize the commissions in about half the counties, said they are intended to move race relations away from the "swat team" approach to each crisis.
"Historically, broker groups -- civil rights coalitions, affirmative action groups and so on -- are always put together hastily and in a reactive way to some extant problem," Mr. Freda said. "The commissions' purpose is to look at discrimination and prejudice as a low-level infection that is prevalent all over society, and, like oral hygiene, that if you don't look at it regularly you can end up with a problem."
The rise in reports of bias offenses in New Jersey is taken by some officials both as evidence of the seriousness of the problem and as proof that increased official sensitivity to bias issues has meant more care in classifying hate crimes.
At the same time, serious outbursts between groups, like the simmering problems in Crown Heights, have not surfaced in the state, said Paul Goldenberg, head of the Attorney General's office of Bias Crime and Community Relations.
The commissions are part of a broad program by the administration of Gov. Jim Florio to head off racial problems before they surface, as well as to punish the people responsible when they do.
 
Mandatory 'Re-education'
 The state has enacted a tough hate-crimes law that sets tough penalties for offenses like petty vandalism or harassment when they are motivated by hatred or prejudice.
In April the state announced a program of mandatory "re-education" classes for youths who commit hate crimes and for their parents. A month later, Attorney General Robert J. Del Tufo directed all police departments to designate an officer to take complaints of racial or ethnic bias by the police.
And finally, a bill already passed in the State Senate would allow victims of hate crimes to sue their tormentors for personal damages.
"The aim of these programs is to be both preventative and remedial," Mr. Del Tufo said in an interview. "We are resisting the racial and ethnic polarization that exists in society, and at the same time we are getting the word out that on the law enforcement side, we won't tolerate hate crimes in New Jersey."
 
Rode to His Assistance
 Now Mr. Kothari, the owner of Quick Travel agency on Oak Tree Road, is himself a member of the Middlesex County Human Relations Commission. He said it rode to his assistance when his new agency was repeatedly vandalized in 1990.
"There was a time when my people did not walk on the street after 6 P.M.," he said. "When my windows were broken, the police would say, 'Oh, it is just boys doing this; call your insurance agency.' I would say, 'Why is it that only the Indian businesses have to have iron grilles in front of their windows?' And the attitude would be, this is just something that all new immigrant groups have to go through. The human rights commission helped us to overcome that."
According to the Attorney General's office, the number of bias-motivated incidents is increasing steadily. The state reported 824 offenses and 341 arrests in 1990, although the vandals of Mr. Kothari's office were not among those caught.
In 1991, there were 976 reported offenses and 297 arrests. The largest categories of offense all increased: simple assault, like pushing or shoving; criminal mischief, like spray-painting epithets and petty vandalism, and harassment. State officials said the increases are due to both the weak economy, which increases tensions between groups, and a more thorough reporting system.
 
'Not Going to Go to Jail'
 "We find these offenses are more the work of young people and younger adults," said Sharon Ransavage, the Hunterdon County Prosecutor. "We need to look for creative responses to these problems, because after all, they're not going to go to jail."
Lately, the idea of human relations commissions has begun to filter down to the local level, said Nancy Young, an employee of the National Conference of Christians and Jews who coordinated the establishment of the Middlesex County Human Relations Commission. Three years ago, three municipalities in the county had such councils, she said, and today there are 11.
Two weeks ago, when anti-Semitic graffiti were spray-painted on the walls of East Brunswick High School, the East Brunswick Human Relations Council and local school officials organized a human relations forum, set for Jan. 24, to talk about the incident and seek ways to prevent new ones.
"At first, dealing with racial or intergroup tensions in the schools was akin to dealing with drug issues in the 50's and 60's," Mr. Freda said. "You didn't talk to people about the in-built psychology of prejudice, but now it's all the mode."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pradip Kothari, an Indian immigrant, says he has endured a number of slurs and attacks over the last couple of years in Iselin, N.J. Mr. Kothari, a member of the Middlesex County Human Relations Commission, posed in his Quick Travel agency. (Julio A. Ibarra Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); INDIAN-AMERICANS; RACIAL RELATIONS RACE & RACISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); COUNTIES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (65%); TRAVEL AGENTS (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); KOTHARI, PRADIP; PETERSON, IVER

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



141 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: 'Pride and Determination': Excerpts From the State of the City Address

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Mayor Dinkins's State of the City address yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times:

 	 	 		. . .	 	Today I want to talk about how we have heard the voices of this city and how we have kept the promises that we have made. Our compact was based on my vision of what this city can be. It is a vision of a government brought closer to the people and their neighborhoods, for throughout my life I have known New York as a community of neighborhoods. We took our first step toward this vision with our Safe Street, Safe City community policing plan. But we didn't stop there.
Using the talents of some of the most creative thinkers in government we put together a series of programs that put our people up front and moved the bureaucracy behind. We promised a government closer to the people and we have kept that promise. New York has been described as an extraordinary hive of the imagination, the greatest house ever built. I believe that the role of government is to help shape this extraordinary house of ours while giving our people the resources they need in order to take control of their lives. It means giving our children, to whom I've dedicated this administration, the love and nurturing they need to take us into the future.
I knew that our city of neighborhoods would flourish and that our children would thrive if we could create a safe city, a compassionate city, a city with a world-class economy. That is the vision I want to present to you today. So I come before you filled both with pride and determination, proud that we have laid the foundation to insure that our city's economy remains world class and poised to take us into the next century, proud that New York is safer today than it was before and proud of course, that all the while we never lost our compassion and our commitment to make life better for all of our residents.
We've done much -- thank you -- we've done much and we're determined to do much much more with your help. Last July we saw the man who would become the nation's President nominated under the dome of our own Madison Square Garden. Bill Clinton and Al Gore represent the kind of change this country needs and wants. And we are already seeing the prospect of a very different kind of government in Washington, D.C.
I had the privilege of addressing the Democratic National Convention, speaking on behalf of New York as well as the other great cities of our nation. At that point of our first term I could think only about the changes that we had begun to see, of how far we had already come and how much further our vision would carry this great house we have built together. Think back to January of 1990. Crime soared out of control, the budget we inherited had more holes than a Swiss cheese, a recession stole our jobs, an indifferent Federal Government took away our hope. Think about how much has changed. Remember how the words financial control board once dominated discussions of our budget.
Today, thanks to our spirit of reform and renaissance that has been reinventing government for the last three years, the foundation of our fiscal house stands solid.
Of course, while this year's budget is balanced, substantial deficits to remain in the years to come and our next budget will require us once again to make tough decisions, the kind of decisions that define this administration. While the aftershocks of a recession and the forecasts of deficits will require us to remain ever vigilant, surely we will leave our fiscal house standing stronger than we found it. Remember how the threat of businesses leaving our city once seemed to plague us. Over the last three years we've saved over 35,000 jobs by aggressively pursuing established and cutting-edge companies and convincing them to stay in New York.

 	 	 		. . .	 	This year we have a new partner. The most important new partner we've gained in a dozen years. We know that the New York State Congressional delegation led by Congressman Charles Rangel will work closely with Speaker Tom Foley and they will continue to hear our voices, so too, will the new head of the powerful Senate Finance Committee Daniel Patrick Moynihan. For too long, however, so many of our efforts had been stymied by the hostile Federal administration. But not only does our new President believe in cities and understand their importance, Bill Clinton knows that New York is the incubator for some of the greatest talent in the country. That's why he's chosen New Yorkers like Bob Ruben and Donna Shalala and Roger Altman and Cliff Wharton and Ron Brown as part of his team to put people first. And also joining that team are former Mayors Henry Cisneros and Fredrico Pena who are committed to urban centers as much as anybody I know. With these new partners, so many of them longtime friends, we can help transform cities like New York into towns called hope.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I come to you filled both with pride and determination," said Mayor David N. Dinkins as he defended his record in his State of the City address. He said he had delivered on his 1989 campaign promises to be tough on crime and to be a sound fiscal steward. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MAYORS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CITY LIFE (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); BUDGETS (69%); POLITICS (64%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (64%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) BILL CLINTON (57%); AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



142 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH-CARE COSTS UP SHARPLY AGAIN, POSING NEW THREAT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Spending on health care accounted for more than 14 percent of the nation's total economic output last year, up from 13.2 percent in 1991, the Commerce Department says in a new report. The rise continues a trend that is increasingly seen as a threat to the country's economic health.
The department now estimates the health-care bill for last year at $838.5 billion while it says health spending will total $939.9 billion this year. That would be an increase of 12 percent from last year's total, and the department said that medical spending would continue to go up 12 percent to 15 percent a year over the next five years "unless significant changes in the health-care system occur." By contrast the population growth for last year has been estimated at about 1.2 percent by the Census Bureau.
 
Adding to Business Costs
 The latest projections are higher than those offered by the Commerce Department in December 1991, when it said health spending would rise 12 percent to 13 percent a year in the coming five years. If the new projections are accurate, health spending will easily exceed $1 trillion in 1994. 
 While the latest rise was expected, it adds to the burden on businesses, which pay more than one-third of the country's medical bills. It also tends to increase the Federal budget deficit and swells the ranks of the uninsured, as more people and companies are priced out of the market for health insurance.
The figures underscore the depth of the challenge facing President-elect Bill Clinton, who has made restraining the growth of health-care costs a top priority for his Administration.
Commenting on the new data, Judith Feder, coordinator of health policy for the Clinton transition team, said today, "The growth of health-care spending continues unabated, demonstrating the importance of the reform initiative the President-elect has proposed."
 
Proposals Within 100 Days
 Mr. Clinton has said that, within 100 days of taking office on Jan. 20, he will propose legislation to slow the rise in health costs and to guarantee insurance for all Americans. But there is no consensus even within the Democratic Party about how to achieve those goals.
In the campaign, Mr. Clinton said he wanted to establish annual limits on health-care spending. He said the limits should be enforceable. But he did not say how the limits would be enforced or how medical care would be controlled to stay under the ceilings. At the same time, Mr. Clinton said he wanted to rely on market forces as much as possible, and he praised the strategy of "managed competition," in which large groups seek the most efficient providers, as a way to control costs.
The department said that health spending surpassed 14 percent of economic output last year, but did not give a precise figure. Health care accounted for 13.2 percent of the economic output in 1991 and 12.2 percent in 1990. In 1981 it was 9.6 percent.
The latest figures mean that health care took one out of every seven dollars of the nation's gross domestic product, a broad measure of economic activity that reflects the total output of goods and services by labor and operations in the United States. This proportion is "substantially higher than what is found in other leading industrialized countries," the Commerce Department observed.
Data compiled by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development show that in 1990, when health spending accounted for 12.2 percent of output in the United States, it accounted for 8 percent to 9 percent in Canada, France, Germany and Sweden. The comparable figure for Japan was 6.5 percent, and for Britain it was 6.1 percent.
 
Dynamic Economic Sector
 The Commerce Department found that health care was one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy, with total employment of 10 million in 1992, up 43 percent in just four years. But that growth could be a mixed blessing. The data show that more people depend on health-care spending for their livelihoods, and that implies that the system will be difficult to change because more people have a financial stake in it.
The Commerce Department said that many factors contributed to the rising cost of health care. It mentioned, for example, "the use of sophisticated and high-priced equipment," the aging of the population and the comparatively high earnings of many people in the health-care industry, as well as the "innovative but costly treatment of some illnesses" like cancer, AIDS and heart disease.
Manufacturers of medical equipment vehemently deny that their products add to the total cost of health care and insist that some products save money by reducing the need for surgery and other costly procedures.
Federal, state and local officials say they have tried to contain health costs, but cannot do so without broader changes in the health-care industry.
Federal spending on Medicaid, the program for low-income people, rose 29 percent in the last fiscal year, to $67.8 billion. States share Medicaid costs with the Federal Government, and state officials complain that Medicaid has imposed a crushing burden on them.
The study of the health-care industry is part of a larger report on the American economy to be issued later this month by the Commerce Department. The chapter on health care was made available today by a consumer organization, the Health Research Group of Public Citizen Inc. Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, director of the Health Research Group, said the new data were "extremely troubling."
The surge in employment in the health-care industry is notable because it came at a time when there was hardly any growth in private employment overall. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that private employment increased 1 percent, to 90 million in 1992 from 89.2 million in 1988.
Uwe E. Reinhardt, a professor of political economy at Princeton University, said, "Health care accounts for a huge chunk of the growth in gross domestic product registered since the early 1980's."
"In Federal and state government budgets, health care probably displaces investment in education, roads and transportation systems that would be more beneficial for the economy," Mr. Reinhardt said. "But we don't really know whether health spending in the private sector displaces the kind of investments that would cause higher economic growth."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Soaring Cost of Health Care," track spending on health care in the United States as a percentage of gross domestic product and in trillions of dollars, 1981-1992 (G.P.D.), 1981-1993 (dollars) (Sources: Department of Healht and Human Services, Department of Commerce) (1992-93, Commerce Department estimates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (95%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (95%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (95%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (95%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; ELECTION ISSUES; FORECASTS; RATES HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (79%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); CENSUS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



143 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Is Reported to Move Missiles Into Areas Patrolled by U.S. Jets

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Administration officials said tonight that Iraq had moved surface-to-air-missiles into the enclave in the southern part of the country that is patrolled by United States and allied warplanes.
American officials said they were not sure why Iraq had moved the weapons, described as Soviet-made SA-2 and SA-3 missiles, into the zone, from which Iraqi aircraft are barred. The United States and its allies established the zone in August 1992 in an effort to protect rebellious Shiite Muslims in Iraq's southern marshlands. 
 The movement of the missiles could mean that Iraq is anticipating an American strike against its installations in response to its violations of the zone. But some American officials are concerned that Iraq may be trying to shoot down an American aircraft in reply to the downing of an Iraqi MIG on Dec. 27. The United States said the MIG had trespassed into the no-flight zone.
"The main concern is that Iraq may be trying to bag an American aircraft," said an American official who asked not to be identified.
The movement of the missiles comes during signs that Baghdad may still be intent on testing Western resolve to enforce the restrictions imposed on Iraqi after the Persian Gulf war.
After an American F-16 shot down the Iraqi MIG-25, the general view in the Administration was that Iraq would shrink from further challenges to the United States and allied nations. But American officials said Iraqi planes had continued to probe the edge of the zone, the 32d parallel. One Government official said Iraq had made three incursions into the zone today.
 
Options Include Air Strikes
 It is not clear what, if any, action the Bush Administration is prepared to take in its final weeks. Options that have been discussed in the Administration include staging air strikes against airfields and other targets in Iraq or possibly extending the no-flight zone to cover all of Iraq.
In addition to military steps, the United States could take political steps to try to further blacken the image of the Government of President Saddam Hussein and undercut the case for lifting of economic sanctions against Iraq. One approach that has been considered is to push for a hearing on war crimes by Iraq, citing newly acquired documents on the persecution of Kurds in northern Iraq.
Even after the zone over southern Iraq was established, Iraq kept some surface-to-air missile batteries south of the 32d parallel, but did not operate missile batteries there, a senior American official said. Iraq was warned that activating the radars that guide the missile batteries or otherwise threatening the American, British and French planes that patrol the zone would be considered a hostile act.
But in recent days, American officials said, Iraq has moved more surface-to-air missile batteries south of the 32d parallel while apparently moving to activate the batteries already there, a Government official said.
 
Bid to Protect Iraqi Planes
 Although only a small number of missiles appear to have been moved so far, American officials said, the deployment adds to the potential threat to the American and allied planes. Additionally, the Iraqi action was only recently detected and Americans officials said that it was possible that Iraq was in the process of deploying more of the weapons.
A Pentagon official said that some of the southern missiles had been stationed close to the 32d parallel in a possible effort to protect Iraqi planes that skirt the zone.
This official said the movement of the missiles was not in itself a violation of any restriction imposed by the allies. But he said that if the missiles were deemed by the United States to be a threat to its enforcement of the no-flight zone, it might take military action.
The officials said the Iraqis had also stationed missiles just north of the 32d parallel and had recently sent additional MIG fighters to their air base at Al Jarrah, which is north of the 32d parallel but close to the no-flight zone.
In the northern part of the country, Iraq has deployed a large number of ground troops near the Kurdish enclave. Though the Baghdad Government has described the deployment as part of an exercise, American officials see it as an effort to intimidate the Kurds.
In other moves that have stirred concern, Iraq has sought to hide documents from United Nations weapon inspectors and has delayed moving police posts from territory that a United Nations commission has determined belongs to Kuwait.
On his recent visit to American troops in Somalia, President Bush said he thought that Mr. Hussein was still intent on testing the resolve of United States and it allies, despite the downing of the Iraqi MIG-25.
 
Hussein 'Doesn't Get It'
 "Saddam Hussein is testing something," Mr. Bush said. "I don't know whether he's testing me or President Clinton. It makes me think he doesn't get it yet. The only thing good is when his people do what they should do, get him out of there."
Mr. Bush met with King Fahd last week in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, while traveling to Somalia and is said to have discussed Iraq's actions.
Many American officials say they believe that Mr. Hussein's challenges will increase after Mr. Clinton takes office on Jan. 20, even though the President-elect has warned Baghdad that he is prepared to take tough action to enforce the restrictions imposed after the gulf war.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney told reporters today that it was likely that Mr. Hussein would continue "pushing right up to the edge as he has from time to time since the end of the war."
"I think it would be a mistake for him to assume that things are going to be any different under Clinton than they've been under President Bush," Mr. Cheney said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq, indicating no-flight zone and Al Jarrah Air Base. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); GULF STATES (78%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); GULF STATES (78%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SHIITE MUSLIMS; MISSILES ; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); RELIGION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); DESERT STORM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); WAR CRIMES (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



144 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: DEFENDING RECORD, DINKINS SEES CITY AS A SAFER PLACE

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Laying the groundwork for his re-election campaign, Mayor David N. Dinkins declared yesterday that New York City was a safer, more just and more fiscally secure place than when he took office despite a severe recession that has hampered his government.
In a 43-minute State of the City address, Mr. Dinkins defended his record in office, saying he had delivered on his 1989 campaign promises to be tough on crime and to be a sound fiscal steward. He listed a long scorecard of achievements, from a drop in overall crime rates to attracting the Democratic National Convention to establishing an all-civilian board to review complaints of police misconduct. 
 "I come to you filled both with pride and determination," he said. "Proud that we have laid the foundation to insure that our city's economy remains world class and poised to take us into the next century, proud that New York is safer today than it was before, and proud, of course, that all the while we never lost our compassion and our commitment to make life better for all of our residents."
 
Criticism From Rivals
 With two opponents already openly running against him and with a mayoral primary nine months away, the Mayor's third State of the City address in essence set forth the reasons he believes he has earned a second term, knowing full well his opponents would respond with the opposite view.
His challengers -- a Democrat, Andrew J. Stein, the City Council President, and a Republican, Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former Federal prosecutor -- dismissed the speech as empty oratory that did not confront what they see as the major problems the city faces: a faltering economy, an inefficient work force and recurring budget deficits.
Mr. Dinkins, in his address, said he had kept the promises he made to voters in 1989 and then went on to offer a long list of small but politically significant programs, an election-year wish list, that he said would fulfill his vision of "a government brought closer to the people and their neighborhoods."
One of the boldest initiatives in the speech would cost nothing. To encourage recruitment of more black and Hispanic police officers, the Mayor proposed giving candidates for officer extra points on their Civil Service examination if they reside in the city. He also vowed to continue to press Albany to pass a law requiring city police officers to live within the city limits, a line that drew large applause from the audience. "The face of our force should also reflect the face of our city," the Mayor said.
Other initiatives would help establish day-care centers in each of the city's 25 business improvement districts, expand public library hours citywide to six days a week, double the number of community health clinics his administration has promised to build, expand health services to all public schools, and double the number of so-called Beacon schools, which stay open later and offer students social-service programs.
 
Help for Small Businesses
 In what appeared to reflect a desire to appeal to voters who own small businesses, Mr. Dinkins advanced several initiatives to help small businesses. He proposed exempting 28,000 more small businesses from the commercial rent tax and said he would cut back on the summonses issued to mom-and-pop businesses for minor sanitation violations by about 46,000. He also said he would like to grant a 10 percent rent-tax credit to businesses that give to cultural institutions.
"We need to get the government off the backs of small business in this town," Mr. Dinkins said.
He did not say how he was going to pay for these relatively inexpensive programs when the city is facing a $1.7 billion budget gap in the fiscal year, though his aides said most of them could be accomplished through more borrowing rather than using general tax revenues that would increase the shortfall. If the Mayor accomplished everything in his speech, the city would give up about $35 million in tax revenues and would pay for about $25 million in new programs out of the operating budget.
 
A Friendly Audience
 Speaking from a podium at the head of the Citt Council chamber against a backdrop of flags, Mr. Dinkins delivered his speech in a firm voice to a friendly audience of about 500 people, including commissioners, elected officials, lobbyists and his political allies. He was interrupted with applause 46 times.
The longest applause came toward the end of the speech when he spoke with emotion of the promise of opportunity that New York City represented to its residents, old and new, rich and poor, native-born and immigrant.
"I stand before all of you, my friends and colleagues," he said, "ready to share again the dream that only New Yorkers can know, the dream of Manhattan's towers, and the bravery of firefighters, the dream of homeowners and barrio dwellers, the dream of a maid's son from Harlem who became Mayor of this greatest house every built."
The audience stood and clapped for several minutes. "Thank you," he added. "God bless you."
While the Mayor is not required by law to give a State of the City address, most mayors have chosen to use it as a way to announce policy shifts and to gain support in the City Council for their initiatives. Though Mr. Dinkins has not officially kicked off his campaign, the speech included the basic message he will try to hammer home over the next nine months, mayoral advisers said.
It is a campaign that will place Mr. Dinkins's record under intense scrutiny, including city services that were either ignored by the Mayor or touched on lightly in the speech. For instance, the administration's handling of child-abuse cases has come under increasing fire in recent days after a city-appointed panel determined that deep staff cuts among social workers had weakened the city's ability to detect abuse and intervene. The holes in the safety net led to several unnecessary deaths and contributed to a record year of homicides in families already proved to be abusive, critics say.
Advocates for the homeless have also repeatedly asserted that Mr. Dinkins's administration has badly mismanaged the shelter system and has been unable to comply with court orders to provide shelter. A judge recently found the city in contempt of court orders for continuing to allow the homeless to sleep in emergency assistance offices.
 
Fiscal Questions Raised
 Many elected officials in the audience took Mr. Dinkins's remarks yesterday with a grain of salt, saying his ideas -- especially relief for small businesses -- sounded good if they come to pass. But some raised questions about how Mr. Dinkins would pay for the new initiatives.
"I only hope the promises that are made become reality," the Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said. "The promises and the wish list have to become the product of tomorrow."
He said that while he agreed with Mr. Dinkins's desire to cut rent taxes for small businesses, he would not support doing it by giving a tax credit to them if they give money to cultural institutions. The rent tax should be eliminated, he said, and money for museums and other arts groups should be found elsewhere.
Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, called the speech "very impressive because of the number of specific new initiatives the Mayor was prepared to take even in tough economic times." She said he was at last responding to the needs of some of his core constituents, like small-business owners and working families, whose problems have been largely ignored while the administration struggled with fiscal problems.
 
A Different Picture
 Although the speech was warmly received in the Council chamber, the Mayor's opponents and critics painted a much different picture of his administration's accomplishments.
Mr. Giuliani, the likely Republican mayoral candidate who lost to Mr. Dinkins by a narrow margin in 1989, said that while the administration has been successful in keeping a few companies from moving out of the city, New York has lost more than 400,000 jobs during Mr. Dinkins's tenure. He faulted Mr. Dinkins for not proposing a program to generate jobs. He also said the speech included no plans for cutting the budget deficit or wresting more productivity from city workers.
"His speech attempts to be everything to everybody instead of setting forth priorities and talking about the overall things that would be helpful, like how to get control of the governmental work force," Mr. Giuliani said.
Mr. Stein said keeping libraries open longer would be a minor accomplishment, considering the deep cuts Mr. Dinkins has made in the education budget and the overcrowding in schools. "I think there was some good rhetoric in the speech, but what the city needs is not some good rhetoric but sweeping change," he said.
 
Advantage in Police Exam
 In discussing the Mayor's proposal to give city residents an advantage on the police exam, city officials noted that blacks now account for about 25 percent of the city's population but make up only 12.5 percent of the uniformed police force. Mr. Dinkins called for a major new effort to recruit black officers, including recruitment drives at military bases.
The Mayor also said he had asked senior advisers to create new promotional paths to make it easier for civilian Police Department employees to become uniformed officers. More than 50 percent of the department's civilian workers are black and about 14 percent are Hispanic, according to city officials.
Phil Caruso, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, could not be reached for comment last night on the Mayor's proposals.
Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary, said the city was studying whether the proposals would require approval by the Legislature. He said municipal officials thought they would probably have to seek legislative approval to give bonus points to city residents on Civil Service exams.
State lawmakers have resisted previous proposals to require officers to live in the city. Legislative leaders said yesterday that they would study the Mayor's new proposals before commenting on them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The City Council President, Andrew J. Stein, right, a likely challenger to Mayor David N. Dinkins's re-election bid, said yesterday that Mr. Dinkins did not address major reforms. He sat with Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman and Guy V. Molinari, upper left, Staten Island Borough President, at City Hall. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE; RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS ; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); DAY CARE CENTERS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SANITATION; SMALL BUSINESS; FINES (PENALTIES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TAXATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); LIBRARIANS (64%); LIBRARIES (61%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR ; STEIN, ANDREW J (CITY COUNCIL PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



145 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: In an Armed Land, Somalis Live and Prosper by the Gun

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOGADISHU, Somalia, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Bashir Aynab Ali got his first assault rifle two years ago, when a relative handed him a stolen AK-47 to join the revolt against President Mohammed Siad Barre.
It was his rite of passage into Somalia's world of the gunman, a treacherous universe of Robin Hood-style thieves of some honor, murderers with no honor, and survival by the barrel of the gun. For the 22-year-old, the gun turned out to be more useful than a baccalaureate. 
 As Somalia descended into anarchy, Mr. Ali's AK-47 guaranteed him employment in one of the country's few growth businesses -- hired bodyguard work. It gave him the power to get food during a famine. And it was a negotiable currency, one that could be exchanged for regular money for life's essentials.
 
Means of Survival
 "I took the gun to save my life," said the slender young man with a scar across his face from a fight. "I took it to survive, for any circumstance I would meet."
Somalia's guns came with the cold war -- aid for President Siad Barre, first from the Soviet Union, then from the United States. When Mr. Siad Barre fell, Government garrisons were overrun, the weapons becoming the looted property of the people.
Before American troops landed here, nine types of artillery pieces were said to be in common use in Mogadishu -- one French, three American and five Soviet.
The gun culture is pervasive, with AK-47's fired into the air in celebration after weddings. Private homes have their own heavy weapons. On the streets, pitifully thin urchins sit in the dirt playing with empty shiny brass AK-47 shells as toys.
When the Americans arrived more than three weeks ago, many Somalis expected disarmament to be a top priority. Prices for assault rifles fell almost overnight from $150 to $50. Now, with the United States military insisting that its mission is to deliver food, many here seem to be virtually demanding that the Americans save Somalis from themselves.
"I think if they are not going to disarm, they should go back home," said Abdu Baffo, an agronomist working with the British branch of Save the Children. "Why did we need the intervention? Because we were unable to sit down and sort out factors by ourselves, and arms are the reason we couldn't do so."
On the surface, conditions look safer. The jeeps armed with anti-aircraft guns and rocket launchers have disappeared from the streets under agreements between warlords negotiated by United States officials. And the market where grenades and ammunition was as prevalent as food has pretty much evaporated in the last few days.
 
Just a Change of Venue
 But Somalis say the looters in the capital have simply moved off the thoroughfares traveled by American troops and into other neighborhoods, where they terrorize local residents.
Many people also admit that they are hiding their weapons at home or under blankets in their cars.
And it still seems as if almost every man and boy owns at least one assault rifle -- people like 16-year-old Assad Abdi Mohammed, whose teeth are stained brown from chewing khat, or Mohammed Jailani, a health official who bought two automatic rifles to defend his home from looters, or Ujer Ali Sheik, a onetime Government clerk who admits that he used to watch for food deliveries and then raid the warehouses, using his rifle as persuasion.
"If there is food I must take it because nobody will ever give it to me," said the 28-year-old father of four, whose face is drawn, aged beyond his years. "I must save my children. When it comes, they will not give it out in a regular way, so you must get it by force."
 
Job Creation
 In a world hostage to guns, even the gunmen dream of deliverance. Young Assad cradles his weapon in his sarong and talks of selling it to the Americans for $500, a fivefold markup over its original purchase price. He reasons that he would then have enough cash to go into business as a money changer.
Mr. Ali says he is ready to give his weapon without payment, though disarmament is clearly a chancy proposition for him in a country where unemployment is the norm. Since he turned 20, he has spent what he had hoped would be his university years surviving by the gun.
In January 1991, as part of a group that stormed an arsenal, Mr. Ali seized 40 weapons, most AK-47's and M-16's, and sold the bulk of them at handsome prices. When food became scarce, he turned to his gun once again.
"There are looters who would break into houses," he said. "I decided only to go with food supplies." Over the last two years, he said, "everybody was using a gun and nobody will tell you that he is a looter."
He insists that he was not a thief but a protector when he rode alongside relief food convoys in a souped-up car full of weapons to ward off other attackers. As payment, he would get four or five sacks of food.
 
Unfriendly Competition
 He said he was the breadwinner for 20 families -- his own family of 16 children, plus neighbors and friends. There were exchanges of fire over the food convoys, he said, his car of gunmen turning against their friends in a second vehicle when the other group tried to make an end run and divert the food trucks.
"We were together and this started a conflict between us," he said, describing how the two carloads fired at each other until the attacker ran out of ammunition and the theft was foiled.
Several weeks ago, in anticipation of the American landing, Mr. Ali modified his line of work. He now rides shotgun as a guard for a friend with a pickup truck. They hire themselves out as a package deal -- a taxi with its own protection.
He is waiting for the day when the Marines will show up to collect his AK-47 along with everyone else's. But he insists that he will give it up only to an American.
"If I give it to a Somali," he said, "he will kill me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOMALIA; USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION) SOMALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; FAMINE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FIREARMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ANARCHY; SOMALIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US FIREARMS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FAMINE (88%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (87%); SHOOTINGS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (73%); COLD WAR (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; SIAD BARRE, MOHAMMED

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



146 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Wroclaw Journal;
Yes, Class, Once Upon a Time This Was Germany

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WROCLAW, Poland

 BODY:
Here, in the largest city of the lands Poland annexed from Germany in 1945, the advent of democracy since the overthrow of Communism has meant even more than in the rest of the country.
A democratic, even quarrelsome, political life has sprung up. Private stores, loudly advertising the consumer goods of the West, compete for customers along streets whose shop windows for more than four decades hid chronic shortages of nearly everything desirable behind dull, gray displays of empty packages. 
 "The sidewalks are becoming more even," said Juliet Golden, an American who for more than a year has headed a program to teach English to the executives of an engineering and machine-building concern in which a Swiss-Swedish company has invested. Since their liberation from highly centralized control, Polish towns have begun to repair the damages of many years of neglect.
Yet there is another dimension that makes Wroclaw special. For the first time since becoming Polish, Wroclaw (pronounced VROH-tswaff) is free to own up to its past.
 
City Denied a History
 Until the fall of Communism, many say, residents lived in an ancient city that was allowed no history.
"Man needs memory, and here we were not allowed one," said Maciej Lagiewski, director of the Historical Museum of the city. "We were allowed only the stupid Communist history, which leaped from the Piasts to 1945." The Piasts were a Slavic dynasty that ruled over a large region from the 10th to the 14th centuries and created a great Polish empire.
For the first time since Stalin compensated Poland for seizing large parts of its eastern region for the Soviet Union by handing over the German territories of Silesia, Pomerania and part of East Prussia, people in Wroclaw now speak with assurance of their possession of this city of 650,000. This is the same number of residents as in its German days, when it was called Breslau, and most were born here. They no longer need to pretend the city was always Polish instead of German for 600 years.
"There is no culture without history," said Barbara Piegdon, an editor of the local edition of Gazeta Wyborcza, a national newspaper. "The Communists created a myth that we Poles came back here." She stressed "back," which was the heart of the myth.
 
Germans and Poles Go West
 At the end of the war, the German population was expelled westward, and most Poles who settled here came from the eastern territories from which the Soviet Union drove them.
Acknowledging the truth has freed people from the nervousness with which they had greeted German visitors in the past. In 1990, a German Consulate was opened, a major concession in a city in which even German tour groups were viewed with tense caution, as if they were a vanguard of people seeking to reclaim what had been theirs. Consul General Bruno Weber said his relations with Poles at all levels were marked by what he called a special friendliness.
Wojciech Wrzesinski, rector of Wroclaw University, has pointedly reminded Mr. Weber that Germany has failed so far to fulfill his request to open a German cultural institute. This contrasts with the successful effort of the past to remove every German inscription or other reminder of the non-Polish past.
 
Changing Street Names
 For the fifth time this century, Wroclaw is engaged in a wholesale change of street names; 100 so far, the Mayor said. Each period of the city's agitated history has been inaugurated by such mass rechristenings.
The Imperial German names were changed with the proclamation of the Weimar Republic in 1918. There was extensive renaming when Hitler came to power in 1933. All German names were replaced in 1945, and many were replaced after the Polish revolt of 1956.
Other inscriptions of the past have merely been translated. While in the Nazi era, "Jews to Palestine" was a common scrawling on walls, "Jews to Israel" was smeared in big letters on a building near Mielecka Street, which had many Jewish tenants before the deportation of the city's Jews from 1941 to 1943. Breslau had about 30,000 Jews; Wroclaw today has fewer than 100.
 
Restoring a Graveyard
 The museum director, Mr. Lagiewski, said "most people here" criticized him for a commitment he has kept since the 1970's. Beginning almost singlehandedly, Mr. Lagiewski has largely restored the oldest remaining German Jewish cemetery, whose graves, numbering more than 12,000, mainly of the last century, had lain overgrown, vandalized and neglected since the 1930's.
In interviews and random conversations, most people said they were better off now than under Communism, but complained that they had expected greater and quicker improvement from the introduction of a market economy. But all volubly rejected a wish for a return of Communism.
Even the spokesman for the successor to the former ruling party, the Social Democracy Party, said he did not wish for that. "The people are still afraid of us," Czeslaw Cyrul, the spokesman, said. "They think we want to return to Communism. But we say, 'no return to the past.' We are for capitalism. It's the most effective system that has been invented."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For the first time since being ceded from Germany to Poland in 1945, Wroclaw is free to own up to its past. "Man needs memory, and here we were not allowed one," said Maciej Lagiewski, director of the city's Historical Museum. "We were allowed only the stupid Communist history, which leaped from the Piasts to 1945." He helped a researcher from Berlin locate a grave in the city's oldest German Jewish cemetery. (Witold Jaroslaw Szulecki for The New York Times)
 
Map of Poland, indicating Wroclaw.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (95%); GERMANY (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: GO WEST PRESENTS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WROCLAW (POLAND); SILESIA POLAND (95%); GERMANY (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HISTORY; JEWS POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HISTORY (72%); TRENDS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); 

PERSON: KAMM, HENRY; STALIN, JOSEPH (1879-1953)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



147 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Northwest Is Laying Off 1,043 More to Cut Costs

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
In a continuing effort to cut costs and conserve cash, Northwest Airlines said yesterday that it was laying off 1,043 workers, or about 2 percent of its work force of 47,000.
The airline, which early last month canceled or deferred the delivery of $6.2 bilion worth of aircraft and arranged $250 million in new loans to strengthen its finances, has been struggling to get through a period of low passenger traffic. 
 Northwest laid off about 2,100 workers in the last year and is seeking to restructure the huge debt it acquired when it was taken private in 1989 in a leveraged buyout led by its current chairman, Alfred Checchi.
The current layoffs will affect mostly flight attendants -- 780 will be dismissed. The rest of the layoffs will come from the ranks of the ground crews and ticket agents. The attendants were hired since March 14, 1992, and are expected to be eligible for severance payments under their contract. Those laid off will be considered on furlough for three years, meaning they would be the first rehired if Northwest expanded its work force again.
 
Fewer Attendants Needed
 The airline said that fewer flights and the replacement of wide-body aircraft with smaller planes on some routes had cut the number of attendants needed. It said that its service should not be affected by the layoffs.
Barry Kotar, a senior vice president, said that "adverse economic conditions and the brutal economic environment of the U.S. airline industry have required us to take aggressive action to reduce costs and improve operational efficiency."
Ron Carey, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents about 8,000 flight attendants at Northwest, said his union would agree to help Northwest attain $300 million a year in concessions like salary and work-rule changes from all its unions, but only if the owners of Northwest also contributed to the solution and if employees were given "the checks and balances they need" to protect what they have sacrificed for the company.
The company has agreed to meet with Mr. Carey today to discuss holding negotiations on new contracts intended to provide substantial savings for the company.
All of the big carriers have suffered because they added too many new planes to their fleets just as traffic growth was slowing considerably; many resorted to price cutting to fill the seats. Most major carriers have also cut back on employment, particularly USAir.
The problems of Northwest have been aggravated by the interest costs and principal repayments on its debt of $3.65 billion.
The airline, in one of the most drastic moves in the industry, has cut orders for 50 A320's and 24 A340's from Airbus Industries, the European airplane maker. It also delayed the delivery of $2.7 billion worth of Boeing aircraft.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); AIRBUS SAS (84%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FLIGHT ATTENDANTS LAYOFFS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); TICKET AGENCIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS RON CAREY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



148 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Clinton to Meet Auto Chiefs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 4

 BODY:
The chief executives of the Big Three auto makers and the president of the United Automobile Workers union are scheduled to meet Wednesday with President-elect Bill Clinton, industry officials said today.
Spokesmen for General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler confirmed the meeting but said details would come from Mr. Clinton's staff. A U.A.W. spokesman said he could not immediately confirm the participation of the union's president, Owen Bieber. 
 The meeting in Little Rock, Ark., would come two days before Mr. Clinton is scheduled to meet with Mexico's President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, in Texas to discuss the pending North American Free Trade Agreement. The Big Three auto makers favor the agreement, seeing economic expansion and opportunity in Mexico. The U.A.W. opposes it, saying it fears thousands of manufacturing jobs will be moved to Mexico.
The Big Three chief executives are John F. Smith Jr. of G.M., Harold A. Poling of Ford and Robert Eaton of Chrysler. Topics for possible discussion, in addition to Mexico, include health care. The Big Three say they have a huge disadvantage on health-care costs, as much as $800 a vehicle, compared with Japanese auto makers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); SMITH, JOHN F JR; POLING, HAROLD A; EATON, ROBERT; BIEBER, OWEN F BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



149 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Dividends Were Better, but Not Great, Last Year

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
The year just ended brought the first improvement in corporate dividends in years. But because the numbers were already so low, Wall Street is not popping champagne corks just yet.
In 1992, more companies reinstated dividends, announced higher dividends or gave extra dividends than in either of the previous two years. But on the other hand, that number is still the third lowest since comparable figures began to be compiled in 1955, the Standard & Poor's Corporation reported yesterday. 
 Such figures reflect tepid growth in confidence in the economy among corporate executives, and the year ended with some scattered signs of continued revival.
In the last two months of the year, more companies announced extra dividends than had done so at any time since December 1990, providing more hope that dwindling corporate profits are on the mend. November also saw the single-highest monthly jump in more than two years in the number of dividend increases.
 
Reflection of Expectations
 The dividend figures are an important gauge of companies' past performance and future expectations, because dividends are where corporate executives and directors back up their actions and predictions with cash. Companies with poor performance or expectations of significant troubles in the coming year are loath to distribute cash through dividend payments, so such payouts usually reflect confidence of smooth sailing ahead.
The fact that so many companies were seeing greater profit strength throughout the year underscores the almost imperceptible turns of a changing economy as companies begin to throw off the uncertainty of a recession.
And the overall strength of the American economy is reflected in the fact that even in a troubled year there were more than six times as many announcements of dividend increases, reinstatements and extra dividends as there were of dividend reductions and omissions.
The total of 1,703 favorable dividend announcements was the third smallest for any year since S.& P. began compiling figures, larger only than the results of the last two years. But the figure represented a healthy 16.8 percent jump over the results of 1991, the worst year on record. The number of bad announcements also dropped more than 36 percent, to 277, from 437 last year.
"This was an improvement, but it was nothing to write home about," said Arnold Kaufman, the editor of S.& P.'s Outlook newsletter. "While a better dividend year, 1992 was not outstanding by any means."
The ratio of good news to bad was 6.1 to 1, a significant improvement over last year, when the recession narrowed the ratio to 3.3 to 1. But, despite the growth, the results for 1992 were still anemic compared with those of some recent years. As recently as 1988, for example, there were more than 12 positive dividend announcements for every negative one.
The number of companies announcing dividend increases is perhaps the most closely watched of the three possible types of good news for dividends. In 1992, that number jumped to 1,333, from 1,086 in the previous year. That was the lowest for any year since 1971, when Federal wage and price controls held the figures down. Excluding the 1970-71 period, the 1992 figure was the third lowest since 1961.
There were a few indications of uncertainty. For example, the seasonal high for dividend increases is normally from November to February, as more and more companies anticipate good annual profit news. The 121 such increases last month were more than in any December for the last three years, but were significantly fewer than the 146 increases in November.
But fewer companies omitted dividends in 1992, with 146 companies eliminating such payments, compared with a hefty 250 in the previous year.
There was a small increase in the dividends paid on the stocks that make up the S.& P. 500 index as a group. That payout is computed based on what would be received by an owner of all 500 stocks, whose holdings of mostly fractional shares were worth a total of the S.& P. index's stated price, which was $435.38 yesterday.
Mr. Kaufman of S.& P. estimated that the figure for 1992 would be $12.38, up 1.4 percent from the 1991 figure of $12.20.
But he is also predicting a heftier climb in the dividend payouts in 1993, to as much as $13.12 for the year. That growth is not as steep as it may appear: When all of the changes for the year are taken into account, on an annual basis, the S.& P. 500 would have an indicated dividend rate of $12.58, Mr. Kaufman said, a jump of more almost 4 percent over the annual rate of $12.13 at the start of 1992.
"That is one of the reasons we are looking for a larger increase in 1993," he said.
But such increases are going to be less sharp than in the past because of the same forces that are leading to a tepid recovery, including the debt that remains from the 1980's, the budget constraints for Federal and municipal governments, and continued corporate restructurings. "These are all things we expect will hold back economic expansion and dividend actions," Mr. Kaufman said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Rebound for Shareholders in 1992" shows annual number of dividend changes by U.S. companies. (Source: Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; DIVIDENDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY TWO DIVIDENDS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



150 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises on Indications Of Strengthening Economy

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar advanced sharply on world currency markets yesterday, piercing key levels against several currencies.
In Europe, the German mark was troubled after the resignation on Sunday of Economics Minister Jurgen Mollemann, who stepped down in the midst of a scandal. Mr. Mollemann admitted signing letters endorsing a product made by a company headed by a relative. 
 "That was an excuse to sell the mark," said Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus Econometric Group. Other European currencies also came under pressure, prompting the central banks of German and France to step in to prop up a declining French franc, analysts said.
Supporting the dollar was the general belief that the United States economy is going to fare far better than European and the Japanese economies, Mr. Donney said.
The latest evidence supporting the notion of an recovery was a Government report showing that construction spending had jumped 2.1 percent in November to the highest level in more than two years.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 124.90 yen, up 0.25 yen from Thursday's close. Later in London, it rose to 125.40 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 125.30 yen, up from 124.85 yen on Thursday.
In London, the pound fell to $1.5010, from $1.5140 late Thursday. In New York it cost $1.5000 to buy 1, less expensive than Thursday's $1.5105.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Thursday's late rates, included: 1.6395 German marks, up from 1.6206; 1.4800 Swiss francs, up from 1.4670; 5.5950 French francs, up from 5.5265; 1,530.50 Italian lire, up from 1,472.50, and 1.2816 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2710.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Thursday's late rates, included: 1.6385 German marks, up from 1.6135; 1.4805 Swiss francs, up from 1.4550; 5.5960 French francs, up from 5.5000; 1.8412 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8100; 1,520.50 Italian lire, up from 1,469.00, and 1.2780 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2686.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (55%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



151 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold Contract Prices Drop To Lowest Level in 7 Years

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Gold futures prices fell to their lowest level in seven years yesterday, continuing a downward spiral that began in 1990.
Pushed down by a rising dollar, gold for January delivery dropped by $4.70 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange in New York yesterday, to $328.10. The more actively traded February contract also dropped $4.70, to $328.40. In London, gold was selling at $328.25 an ounce at the afternoon fixing, a drop of $4.75 an ounce from its close on Dec. 30. 
 In recent months, the dollar's strength has prompted selling by gold-producing countries like Australia, South Africa and Russia, and it did so again yesterday.
A stronger dollar encourages other countries to sell gold because it increases revenue they receive for gold. Because gold trades in dollars, a rising dollar amounts to a price increase for these foreign gold producers.
Trading in gold was thin, but gold traders said there were few reasons to expect that gold's slide would end soon.
Denise Giordano, a director and head of the precious metals department at the Swiss Bank Corporation, said that while demand from jewelry fabricators remained good, "fundamental speculators are not holding gold any more."
The absence of speculators "has turned gold more into a jewelry item than a financial instrument," Ms. Giordano added.
Over the last three years, the average price of gold has declined steadily, from $383 an ounce in 1990 to $362 in 1991 and just under $345 last year. After accounting for inflation, gold prices now are at their lowest levels since the mid-1970's, shortly after President Richard M. Nixon took the United States off the gold standard.
Despite the negatives, gold still has further to fall before it reaches the $282-an-ounce price recorded in March 1985. Nevertheless, at current levels prices are only just above the level of $290 to $325 an ounce that analysts say represents marginal production costs.
"Prices of a commodity can dip below that level for a period," said James R. Steel, senior commodities analyst at Refco Inc., the Chicago commodities trading firm. "But it is anybody's guess how long prices could stay below that before we saw a cut in production."
The slide in gold prices "is partly a result of the growing popularity of paper assets, like stocks and bonds," said David Poole, chief economist at Van Eck Associates, a mutual fund manager. Traders and analysts said speculative buyers would likely reappear if gold prices fell further.
"Some people say gold might never come back." Ms. Giordano at the Swiss Bank said. "Never is a long time, but in my 14 years in the market, this is the worst I have seen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (63%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: REFCO INC (63%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; GOLD GOLD MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (92%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); FINE JEWELRY MFG (72%); BONDS (72%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (71%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



152 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Emmerling Doubles in Size With an Assist From Lintas

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
WHEN a top executive leaves an agency with several clients and employees in tow, turmoil and finger-pointing usually follow, not to mention a lawsuit or two. But in one instance, the departure has been so amicable that the agency involved helped make the migration happen.
Effective this week, Peter Post, the president and chief operating officer of Lintas Marketing Communications, is taking six of the agency's accounts and seven staff members and joining John Emmerling Inc. in New York to create Emmerling Post Inc. Lintas Marketing, which wants to concentrate on marketing services for its large clients like Coca-Cola, is willingly letting Mr. Post depart with its smaller advertising accounts, including Midlantic Bank and Continental Insurance. 
 It is appropriate that the new year should begin with a deal, since a wave of mergers and acquisitions is expected in 1993 throughout the advertising industry as it continues consolidating in the wake of a severe and prolonged recession.
 By reconfiguring itself as Emmerling Post, Emmerling, a 17-year-old shop specializing in media accounts like Reader's Digest and the Magazine Publishers of America, doubles in size, to about $25 million in billings.
"We came up with the name Emmerling Post," Mr. Post said during an interview at the Emmerling Post office, formerly the Emmerling office in midtown Manhattan, "because John thought 'Post Emmerling' meant 'after Emmerling.' "
John Emmerling, who is 55 and had been chairman, president and chief executive at Emmerling, becomes chairman of Emmerling Post. Mr. Post, who is 45, assumes the titles of president and chief operating officer.
"We're purposely not having a chief executive officer," said Mr. Emmerling, who joined Mr. Post for the interview, "because we're equal partners in this venture.
"We're sharing everything," he added, "including an office." Indeed, Mr. Emmerling and Mr. Post are tucking themselves into an office that had previously been solely Mr. Emmerling's.
The formation of Emmerling Post begins the new year auspiciously for Mr. Emmerling. Though 1992 was his agency's "most successful year ever," he said, in November he suffered the loss of the high-profile Newsweek account, with an estimated $3 million to $5 million in billings, to Jerry Inc., Jerry Della Femina's new shop.
Mr. Emmerling and Mr. Post said Emmerling Post would seek to specialize in accounts in four fields: media, financial services, technology and health care. Neither man, of course, would turn away other types of business; Mr. Emmerling remembered how Emmerling opened with the Cookin' Good chicken account: "We took on Frank Perdue head-to-head, with the slogan 'New York is no longer a one-chicken town.' Though he ran Cookin' Good out of town, we gave him a good fight."
The genesis of Emmerling Post was the decision of Lintas Worldwide, the parent of Lintas Marketing, that it could no longer profitably serve the small advertising accounts its subsidiary was handling. Besides Midlantic and Continental Insurance, Mr. Post's other accounts at Lintas Marketing, all of which agreed to move to Emmerling Post, included the Long Island Savings Bank and the Swiss Bank Corporation.
"We never would have asked Peter to leave were it not for this particular situation," Spencer Plavoukos, president and chairman of the Americas zone at Lintas Worldwide in New York, said in a telephone interview.
After various alternatives were discussed for handling the departing accounts, he added, the option of Mr. Post's joining forces with Mr. Emmerling was deemed the best.
"I hold both those guys in high esteem and affection," Mr. Plavoukos said. "I think to the extent there are marriages made in heaven, this is one of them."
In a small-world situation commonplace in advertising, Mr. Plavoukos and Mr. Emmerling once worked together, at Richard K. Manoff Inc. in New York. Also, Mr. Post recalled that a couple of years ago, he suggested that Mr. Emmerling close his agency and join Lintas Marketing.
"But John was more interested in being independent," Mr. Post said. "Thank you, John, for that."
In shedding its small advertising accounts, Lintas Marketing will continue to handle giant multinational clients like Coke, General Motors and I.B.M., concentrating on what are known as integrated marketing communications functions, which include sales promotion, direct marketing and co-op advertising.
Rather than replace Mr. Post, Mr. Plavoukos said, Lintas Marketing would be reorganized so that its offices, in Los Angeles, New York and Warren, Mich., a Detroit suburb, would now report directly to Frank Hoag, the chairman, who divides his time among the three.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Emmerling, left, with Peter Post at the office of Emmerling Post in New York. "We're purposely not having a chief executive officer, because we're equal partners in this venture," Mr. Emmerling said. (Toby McAfee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMMERLING POST; LINTAS MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS; EMMERLING, JOHN, INC EMMERLING POST INC (84%); JERRY INC (62%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (55%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (55%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMMERLING POST; LINTAS MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS; EMMERLING, JOHN, INC MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (55%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); RECESSION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (53%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (52%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; POST, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



153 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Construction In Nation Up In November

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Construction spending in the nation rose in November, the Commerce Department reported today, and a survey of midsized businesses indicated an improving economy.
The department said spending on residential, nonresidential and government construction rose 2.1 percent, to $441.8 billion, from $432.8 billion in October. 
 "I would expect the residential numbers will continue to climb modestly as the housing market continues to strengthen," said David Berson, an economist with the Federal National Mortgage Association. "But some sectors, such as apartments and office buildings, are likely to remain weak for a while because of high vacancy rates."
The survey of midsized companies released today by the American Business Conference also pointed to slow improvement in the January-March quarter compared with the previous three months. Members of the conference predicted modest improvements in key business indicators, including sales and investment.
 
More Employment Expected
 Thirty-four percent of the companies surveyed said they planned to expand employment, up from 25 percent in the last survey; 25 percent expected lower employment and 41 percent forecast no change in the number of jobs.
"Our companies are telling us that in the current economic environment, business success means keeping margins razor thin while emphasizing productivity gains among the existing work force," Barry Rogstad, president of the conference, said. "ABC members don't yet see much room for expansion either in profits or job creation."
November's construction increase was the third in a row, but the department revised its preliminary estimate of a 1 percent gain in October to eight-tenths of 1 percent.
Residential outlays rose 1.4 percent in November, to $193.5 billion, after gaining 2.4 percent a month earlier. It was the fourth straight advance.
 
Almost as Good as October
 Spending on one-family homes rose 3.1 percent, to $126.5 billion, nearly matching October's 3.3 percent advance. Spending on apartments dropped 4.8 percent, the third drop in a row, to $11.8 billion, after a 1.6 percent dip the previous month.
"There have been two areas of real weakness over the past several years -- apartment building and nonresidential," Mr. Berson said. "And for the same reason: There was significant overconstruction during the 1980's and there remains considerable oversupply."
Nonresidential spending, however, did post a 3.1 percent increase, to $87.2 billion, nearly double the 1.6 percent gain in October. But Mr. Berson said he did not expect improvements soon in many areas of this sector, including office buildings and other commercial projects, like shopping centers, which were overbuilt in many parts of the country.
"But as the economy expands," he said, "I would expect other nonresidential areas, such as factories, to pick up as firms begin to spend on plants and equipment."
Government agencies increased spending 3.2 percent, to $122.2 billion, wiping out a 1.7 percent decline in October.
"We would view the increase in public construction as more of a one-month phenomenon" because of state and local budget cutbacks, said Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities in New York.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" shows total construction spending from June 1991 to Nov. 1992. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); AMERICAN BUSINESS CONFERENCE (75%); AMERICAN BUSINESS CONFERENCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); AMERICAN BUSINESS CONFERENCE (75%); AMERICAN BUSINESS CONFERENCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) REAL ESTATE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RETAILERS (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



154 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Banks Must Soon Report Loan 'Fair Value'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Banks will be required in annual reports issued early this year to disclose for the first time their estimates of the "fair value" of their loans -- a change long sought by critics who have contended that overly generous accounting rules allowed banks to hide losses on bad loans.
Banks now carry loans on their books at their original value if the bank expects to be repaid in full, even if a borrower gets in trouble and the bank would suffer a loss from selling the loan. 
 The new disclosure will be required only as a footnote and will not affect the profits of banks or the capital they have accumulated to absorb future losses. But it could be a harbinger of more far-reaching changes in the accounting rules, which are crucial to customers, investors and regulators trying to measure a bank's strength.
Early indications by accountants and bankers are that the disclosure will not portray banks in a weaker light, contrary to the expectation of some of its proponents. William P. Hannon, partner at KPMG Peat Marwick, a leading accounting firm for banks, said the new rule "is not going to show the banking industry facing new problems."
Properly run banks have already acknowledged bad loans by subtracting a provision for loan losses from their profits, he said. And the new footnote rule, adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, gives banks enough flexibility to estimate "fair value" for loans on historical experience, not just the fire-sale price that might be required for quick sale.
That conclusion is much different from the expectation of Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas and chairman of the House Banking Committee, who said in a letter in November to Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, that the fair-value accounting would pierce "accounting camouflage" and "prove numerous banks to be insolvent."
But even if the application of the rule is not as painful as Mr. Gonzalez expects, bankers and other analysts worry that future versions of fair-value accounting rules might be less flexible and require lower estimated values for loans even when a bank has no intention of selling a loan.
Federal bank regulators are expected to announce this month their own proposals for disclosing "fair values" and the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which makes rules for the accounting industry, is working on proposals to make "fair value" the core of bank accounting and not just a footnote. Opponents say that such a policy could discourage banks from issuing any but the safest loans, thereby hurting the economy and making it harder for small- and medium-sized businesses to grow.
 
System Is Criticized
 Those warnings and objections that estimates of loans' fair value may be fraught with error have not stopped the S.E.C., some members of Congress and academic experts from espousing fair-value accounting, also called fair-market-value or mark-to-market accounting.
"Right now we have a bank accounting system that is backward looking, based on costs rather than today's prices," said Lawrence J. White, an economics professor at the New York University Stern School of Business. "It's a system that presents too many opportunities to understate losses from bad loans and to understate the severity of the problems at a troubled bank."
In 1990 and 1991 the General Accounting Office, responding to Congressional requests for studies about the causes of the savings and loan debacle and rise in bank failures, issued reports concluding that bank accounting rules made it too easy for bankers and regulators to overlook or ignore losses on bad loans.
Bankers and regulators concede there are abuses of historical cost accounting, but, in the phrasing of Winston Churchill, they say it is the worst system, except for all the others.
Mr. Greenspan said in a speech in November that the issuing of loans to a bank's local customers that could not be readily sold (and for that very reason would probably be worth less than their face amount) "is the competitive reason for banks' existence." To measure such a loan by its market value, the price it might fetch in a quick sale, "is a misapplication of accounting principles," he said.
 
The Current System
 The system now used, and favored by bankers and their regulators, says loans should be carried at the bank's best estimate of the payments it will receive from the borrower. When a loan becomes troubled, banks subtract from their profits an amount, called a loan-loss provision, based on the shortfall in repayment they expect, plus some additional amount to cover problems not foreseen. When a loan gets too dicey, it is written off as a loss in whole or in part, and the write-off is subtracted from reserves.
In 1990 and 1991, banks got a hint of fair-value accounting when Federal examiners prodded them to report their losses on commercial real estate loans more quickly than they wanted. Bankers would have preferred a slower-paced disclosure of their losses, similar to what regulators allowed for loans to less-developed countries (where five years elapsed between Mexico's 1982 default and the large provisions for losses made by banks in 1987).
The delay would have given banks time to wait for real estate markets to improve, or to accumulate capital so they could more easily absorb the losses without creating the kind of alarms that depressed bank stock prices so badly in 1990.
Regulatory zeal in attacking bad loans "scared the flexibility out of the banking system and made banks unwilling to help other companies who were not in default through the tough times," said Joseph Blair, executive director of the Massachusetts Industrial Finance Agency, a state-sponsored agency.
 
A 'G.N.P. Cruncher'
 The experience of the last few years led David C. Cates, chairman of Ferguson & Company, a Washington consulting firm, to conclude that "a mark-to-market accounting rule would be a real G.N.P. cruncher." He said there was a legitimate need for more information about the quality of banks' loans, but that need could be satisfied through less drastic means than a new accounting system.
Bankers, at any rate, are concluding that the new footnote in annual reports to be issued in March will not reveal them to be weaker than the official financial reports. They note that many personal loans, like those for credit cards, are worth more than their face value because they carry high interest rates. In the case of weak loans, losses have already been acknowledged. And banks whose credit ratings have fallen will be able to report a gain on long-term bonds issued at lower interest rates.
William P. O'Halloran, chief financial officer at Suntrust Banks Inc., a banking company in Georgia and Florida, said the sharp drop in interest rates in the last few years would improve banks' financial picture in the new footnote. For example, loans issued with fixed interest rates before or during the period of declining rates could be worth more than 100 cents on the dollar, assuming that the borrower's credit quality has been stable.
At Citicorp, the nation's largest banking company, Thomas E. Jones, chief financial officer, said "people may be surprised" that the footnote to its annual report would not support some analysts' assertions that ordinary accounting rules have allowed it to conceal losses on commercial real estate loans and overstate its financial strength.
Mr. Jones said that after write-offs of loans and foreclosed property totaling $2.8 billion since the end of 1990, Citicorp's $6.5 billion of troubled commercial real estate loans and foreclosed commercial properties are carried on its books at 55 to 60 cents for each dollar of the original loan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (69%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; COMPANY REPORTS; CREDIT; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ACCOUNTING (91%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); CHARLES A GONZALEZ (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



155 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Mayans Had a Middle Class, Too

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Digging deeper, clearing away thickets of misconception and finally deciphering obscure glyphs, archeologists are developing striking new images of the ancient Mayans of Central America as a people with a more richly textured society than previously imagined.
No longer are they idolized as an exceptionally peaceful people; their kings made a habit of bloody wars of conquest. Their agriculture was not so primitive; they practiced intensive farming sufficient to feed large urban populations. Their art and technology were not necessarily derived from the powerful cultures of temperate Central Mexico; on their own the Mayans evolved an innovative, vibrant civilization in the tropical lowlands. 
 Now evidence is accumulating to support another transformation in thinking. The Mayans, it appears, did not have an invariably simple social structure divided sharply between the rulers and nobles on top and the multitude of poor working peasants. As some kingdoms prospered, new excavations reveal, the gulf between the two disparate groups began to be filled with a growing middle class.
Some of the most persuasive clues for the existence of a Mayan middle class emerged last year from the tombs and ruins of Caracol, which was the capital of one of the major Mayan kingdoms in what is now Belize. Archeologists said similar evidence is being found at sites in Guatemala and the Yucatan of Mexico.
The new findings not only challenge conventional ideas about a rigid, two-tiered Mayan society, but also undercut a widely held belief that the collapse of the classic Mayan civilization, one of archeology's enduring mysteries, was brought about, in part, by a widening gulf between the rulers and the ruled that led to revolt.
In an announcement of the most recent studies of Caracol, Dr. Arlen F. Chase and Dr. Diane Z. Chase, anthropologists at the University of Central Florida in Orlando, said yesterday that an examination of burial practices and nonroyal workshops and living quarters showed the presence of a large, flourishing middle class in the city throughout the late classic period, from A.D. 550 to 900. If anything, they concluded, the elite and the commoners of Caracol were growing closer over this time.
"There was a large middle group who lived very much in the manner of what we thought was reserved for the nobility," Dr. Diane Chase said. "This is something we have absolutely no doubts about."
The Chases, a husband-and-wife team, and other experts cautioned that the Mayan situation should not be equated with the economic and political status of modern middle classes. Nor is there clear evidence for much social mobility in Caracol. Members of the middle group seem to have been civic administrators, overseers, leading warriors, bone-setters and skilled craftsmen.
Dr. Jeremy A. Sabloff, a Mayan specialist at the University of Pittsburgh, described the Caracol discoveries as exciting and important, "part of a whole change in Maya archeology, in which people are seeing that the older, simpler models are just not sufficient to explain what we are finding in excavations."
Dr. David Friedel, a Mayan archeologist at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, said new research elsewhere was producing evidence of "social rankings below the level of kings in all the well-recorded capitals." One of the current challenges for archeologists and scholars of Mayan hieroglyphics, he said, was to understand the symbols of power used by several different ranks within the elite and to identify those in power and the relation of others to them.
The Chases suspect that the Caracol middle class arose in the wake of military success, beginning in 562 with the conquest of Tikal, another important Mayan city-state in what is today Guatemala. Victory brought wealth and rapid population growth, which scholars now recognize as a motivation for much Mayan warfare in the classic period, from A.D. 250 to 900. From a detailed survey of a Caracol site, covering 55 square miles, an extensive digging, the Chases estimate the city's population may have reached 180,000, making it one of the largest in Mayan history.
 
'Clincher for Hypothesis'
 About 70 formal tombs have been investigated at Caracol over the last eight years, including two intact royal tombs found last year. One tomb, determined to be 1,600 years old, contained the remains of a ruler and another individual, along with a large number of ceramic vessels and jewelry. A painted text dated the construction of the second tomb to 686. It held the remains of four members of a royal family, all resting on a plaster floor covered with jade flakes.
"Those two tombs were the clincher for our hypothesis," Dr. Diane Chase said. She and her husband had already outlined their ideas on the growing middle class in a book, "Mesoamerican Elites: An Archeological Assessment," published last summer by the University of Oklahoma Press. Before these discoveries, the researchers said, it was widely believed that Mayans buried their dead rulers and royal families in ways that differed significantly from the rest of the population. Instead, comparison of these tombs with nonelite burials showed a number of shared practices: the interment of more than one person in the same chamber and the use of identical ritual materials.
The Mayans did not bury their dead in secluded places like cemeteries, but in special buildings that were part of their living complexes. "They had the dead 'live' with them," Dr. Arlen Chase explained. "The dead may have even been formal participants in rituals carried out by their living descendants."
The royal tombs at Caracol may have been somewhat larger than those of the middle-class dead, and more elaborately decorated and inscribed with detailed hieroglyphics. But otherwise, the royal dead were treated much like the others.
Two things were happening, the Chases concluded. More nonelite people could afford to adopt some of the jewelry and ritual customs of the elite, and the elite seemed to make no great effort to maintain some of the more conspicuous class distinctions.
 
Workshops Provide Clues
 In other excavations at Caracol, the Chases identified workshops where craftsmen made jade and shell ornamentation, including rings, necklaces, pendants and earflares, apparently for the growing middle class. The artisans' stone tools were still in some of the shops.
"If these artisans were making things only for elite households, the workshop would be near the elite households," Dr. Diane Chase said. "When we found areas we suspect are workshops, they are not located there, but along the roads leading away from the center. These people were producing things being used by more ordinary people."
Archeologists working with Dr. Arthur Demarest of Vanderbilt University in Nashville have sought to delineate social stratification at Dos Pilas, another large Mayan city-state in Guatemala. They examined patterns of variations in the architecture, masonry, pottery, burials and grave goods at more than 400 households.
Dr. Demarest said the findings supported the middle-class hypothesis, showing "a kind of continuum between rich and the poor, without any sharp breaks in the levels of wealth."
 
Evidence Against Revolt
 Archeologists said the evidence from earlier sites was too sparse to determine if Mayan societies had a substantial middle class before the sixth century. Mayan prehistory extends back to 1200 B.C., but it was the classic period from A.D. 250 to 900 that saw the peak of Mayan civilization, symbolized by the magnificent temples, tombs and pyramids. From the end of the classic period to the arrival of Europeans, the Mayan cities went into a steady decline.
The last recorded date on a monument at Caracol is 859, and the city seemed to be totally abandoned by 1050. From the ruins, archeologists said, it appears that Caracol met a violent end.
But if the Chases are right, Caracol and other Mayan cities were not doomed by a peasant revolt against the elite. Both the peasants and the nobles -- as well as a middle class that had known periods of prosperity -- were probably victims of the increasingly frequent and widespread warfare that, according to the new thinking, contributed to the collapse of one of the great pre-Columbian civilizations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Arlen F. Chase and Dr. Diane Z. Chase, anthropologists at University of Central Florida, in Mayan royal tomb at Caracol. They say evidence of a Mayan middle class has emerged there. (B. Fuller/University of Central Florida) (pg. C7)
 
Map of Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras and Belize, indicating Caracol; map shows location of Mayan ruins and lowland borders. (pg. C7)
 
Drawings: "Middle Class Shell"

Shell ornament

Burial cache pot with face
 
Maya rulers treasured jade, and pyrite mirrors were also left in their tombs. The discovery of more sparsely decorated tombs containing ornaments of humbler conch shell, like the round ornament above, has convinced some archeologists there was a third class of Mayans, neither peasants nor kings. A shell workshop at the site suggests that these "middle class" Mayans may have been shell traders or artisans.
 
(Source: Dr. Diane Z. Chase and Dr. Arlen F. Chase) (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); BELIZE (91%); HONDURAS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BELIZE; CARACOL (BELIZE); LATIN AMERICA MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); BELIZE (91%); HONDURAS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; MAYANS; RESEARCH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (87%); TRENDS (74%); FARM LABOR (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); 

PERSON: CHASE, DIANE Z (DR); CHASE, ARLEN F (DR)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



156 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Dinkins's Hopeful Vision

 BODY:
Mayor David Dinkins of New York laid out some reasonable plans and priorities in his State of the City address yesterday. Relief from taxes and regulations for small businesses. Longer library hours. More after-school community centers. More community-based health clinics. More day care, more programs for infants and children, more help for battered women.
The speech was the Mayor's opening re-election shot, and he used it to underscore his long-held priorities -- fiscal stability, public safety, health care and the welfare of children -- and explain how he wanted to build on them. 
 Seen purely as goals -- what the Mayor would like to do -- his proposals are worthy. Exempting more small businesses from the commercial rent tax would help those businesses and New York's competitiveness. If the city can afford the $30 million in estimated lost tax revenues, that plan makes sense.
So do the Mayor's plans to bring additional health care into the public schools, create more Beacon community centers and expand Communicare, City Hall's new community health clinics.
But realizing his "vision for 1993 and the years ahead" will be more difficult than presenting it. Though the costs of the programs amount to a modest $60 million, the city faces a sizable budget gap that will demand difficult choices. What will the Mayor cut or shrink to pay for his new initiatives?
Politically, he may not have been wise to present a cheerful picture as the recession continues and labor leaders seek a bigger share of city revenues. Or to propose new and expanded social programs even as the city's social services agency suffers a management crisis. They are not likely to succeed unless Mr. Dinkins makes it his responsibility to work out the chronic problems in the troubled Human Resources Administration -- the agency that should be running many of those programs.
The Mayor took proud credit for past achievements, and, giving him license for election-year hyperbole, he deserves much of the credit he claims. Now he has to give the public a better insight into how he will turn his new vision into reality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; MAYORS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SMALL BUSINESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); CITIES (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); POLITICS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); HUMAN RESOURCES (64%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



157 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton, Environmentalist?

 BODY:
As Governor of Arkansas, his record on the environment was fair to poor. As a Presidential candidate he let Al Gore do most of the talking on environmental issues. Yet many hope that Bill Clinton will become the "environment President" George Bush promised to be but wasn't. It's more than a hope. It's a challenge -- maybe even bigger than Mr. Clinton imagines.
No issue inspires more heat and hyperbole. No country spends more money -- $130 billion -- and imposes more regulations to keep itself clean. But money and laws have not achieved consensus. America is swarming with green activists -- and with energetic critics who believe that the cleanliness crusade exacts too great a toll in jobs and economic growth. 
 Mr. Clinton's opportunity is to bridge the gap with sound policies, shrewd management and smart politics. That means ending bureaucratic turf wars, thereby enabling government to fulfill its historic role as custodian of the nation's natural resources. It means setting priorities that reflect real, not imagined, risks. It means sticking to well-articulated goals.
Mr. Bush did none of these things, staining what began as a noble effort to atone for the eight lost years of Ronald Reagan, whose environmental views oscillated in a narrow band between indifference and hostility. Mr. Reagan hired Ann Burford not to run the Environmental Protection Agency but to gut it. He hired Donald Hodel as Energy Secretary. Mr. Hodel is chiefly remembered for suggesting that the way to deal with ozone depletion was to apply stronger suntan lotion.
Starting fresh, Mr. Bush named a respected environmentalist, William Reilly, to run the E.P.A. He strengthened the Clean Air Act and committed the U.S. to phasing out ozone-destroying chemicals. He banned oil drilling in several sensitive offshore areas for 10 years.
In time, however, the twin demons of recession and election-year politics turned him around. The trees and clean air he had once rhapsodized about became sinister obstacles to economic growth. With Dan Quayle as his point man, he invited business to undercut Congressional mandates.
Mr. Bush tried to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil drilling and permitted wasteful logging in the national forests. He was probably right not to be bulldozed into signing a costly global warming treaty based on incomplete science. But his cramped attitude toward the international Earth Summit in Rio de Janiero badly damaged his claim to global leadership on environmental issues.
Mr. Reilly disappointed some of his old friends by not quitting. He chose to suffer and negotiate. He defeated John Sununu's efforts to weaken the Clean Air Act, saved Mr. Bush from reversing his pledge to protect the nation's wetlands from developers, dragged the President to Rio. On balance, the country is probably lucky he stayed.
So now Bill Clinton finds himself in the same nasty political cauldron. So far he has done little to disappoint the environmentalists, who are delighted with his key appointments -- Carol Browner at E.P.A. and Bruce Babbitt at Interior. He also publicly differs with Mr. Bush on most issues. His energy strategy favors conservation and efficiency over production. He says he'll protect forests and wetlands and urge the reauthorization of the controversial Endangered Species Act.
He's also made it clear, however, that on one crucial issue -- the heavy Federal regulation favored by many environmentalists -- he's keeping his own counsel. He agrees that industry, unregulated, rarely performs acts of spontaneous virtue. He agrees with Mr. Gore that regulation, properly conceived and applied, can force cleaner technologies without threatening profits or jobs.
At the same time, he concedes that businessmen are easily disheartened by complex regulations. He also seems receptive to the notion that market forces -- tax incentives to encourage energy efficiency, for example, or taxes that reflect hidden environmental costs -- might produce the same environmental bang for fewer bucks.
All this suggests an open mind. It also suggests that Mr. Clinton has determined that he will never achieve his objectives unless he persuades people that environmental progress can yield social and technological benefits at least equal to the costs.
But first, of course, Bill Clinton must persuade Bill Clinton that the environment really does matter. This, after all, is a man who courted the Arkansas poultry industry, a world-class polluter of that state's rivers and streams; a man who, by his own admission, winked at pollution to attract industry and jobs to a poor state.
He now claims to have seen the light. Inspired by Mr. Gore, he asserted bravely during the campaign that trading off the environment for jobs was a "false choice" -- that a cleaner America need not be a poorer America. That's hard to sell to Detroit and the oil companies, harder still to sell to the loggers in Oregon.
Politically, George Bush's way was the easier path. Mr. Clinton's way is harder but there's brighter promise at the end. If only he can see it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (66%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) ; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) ; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (66%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ; EDITORIALS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (73%); WETLANDS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); WILDLIFE (69%); OZONE DEPLETION (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HISTORY (68%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (66%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BROWNER, CAROL; BABBITT, BRUCE BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (73%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); JOHN SUNUNU (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993



158 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON AIDES URGE FREER HAITI POLICY

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
President-elect Bill Clinton's top aides presented him today with a proposal for a new policy on Haiti that would make it easier for Haitians to apply for political asylum in the United States while at the same time discouraging a mass exodus from the impoverished Caribbean nation, staff members said.
The proposed policy, which is to be announced before his inauguration and would later be made formal in an executive order, would set up an enlarged system to process asylum cases at a number of points inside Haiti, on the American military base at Guantanamo Bay and in third countries in the region. 
 Over the long term, the Clinton Administration would support and bolster efforts by the United Nations and the Organization of American States to resolve Haiti's political crisis, which resulted from the ouster of Haiti's first freely elected President, the Rev. Jean Bertrand Aristide, in a military coup in 1991.
 
Current Policy on Immigration
 But Mr. Clinton, who met with his aides today to discuss the proposed policy, would also emphasize that he will enforce current immigration policy, which prevents Haitians escaping poverty from seeking asylum in the United States and offers protection only to those fleeing political persecution, the aides said.
Mr. Clinton does not seem prepared to ease the standards currently applied by the Bush Administration to decide whether an applicant has genuine fear of persecution.
"The main goal," one transition official said, "is to keep Haitians in Haiti."
 
Meeting in Little Rock
 The plan was discussed today in a meeting in Little Rock that included Mr. Clinton; his Secretary of State-designate, Warren M. Christopher, the Defense Secretary-designate, Les Aspin; the national security adviser-designate, Anthony Lake; his deputy, Samuel Berger, and Brian Attwood, who handles liaison between the Clinton team and the State Department.
Mr. Clinton plans to announce the new policy before he takes office -- perhaps later this week -- in the hope of heading off a flood of Haitians seeking to enter the United States.
Asked at a news briefing in Little Rock today whether Mr. Clinton was poised to announce a plan on Haiti, George Stephanopoulos, his spokesman, said, "Obviously, it's something we have to do relatively soon."
He declined to say whether the Clinton team was drawing up a plan. "The Governor's been looking at the issue throughout the transition, as has the entire foreign policy team, and he'll have some announcement to make soon," he said.
 
Criticism of Bush
 During the campaign, Mr. Clinton criticized the Bush Administration's policy of turning back boat people without determining whether they are eligible for entry into the United States as political refugees. Since Mr. Bush issued his executive order last May, more than 5,000 Haitians have been returned home.
In Haiti, his words were widely interpreted as a signal that he would welcome them to the United States and stirred many to begin preparations to leave as soon as he takes office. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has received reports that Haitians have already built 600 boats -- each capable of carrying 100 people -- and are building 100 more for use by would-be immigrants.
The prospect that more than 100,000 Haitians could set sail on the 600-mile trip to southern Florida soon after Mr. Clinton takes office has prompted the President-elect's foreign policy team to draft a policy aimed at persuading them to stay where they are.
 
An Urgent Matter
 The issue is of such concern that Mr. Clinton has decided to break his pledge not to interfere in American foreign policy before he takes office.
As part of the new asylum process, the executive order will substantially increase the number of consular and immigration officers to expedite processing of the applications, Mr. Clinton's aides said. The order would encourage private refugee organizations, as well as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to actively participate.
In a confidential memorandum presented to the Clinton transition team and the State Department, the High Commissioner, Sadako Ogata, and her staff announced their intention to increase the commission's presence in Haiti, to monitor human rights and to help find a political solution. But the memo asked that all governments in the region, including the United States, be ready to admit asylum seekers and establish procedures to evaluate their assertions of persecution.
Mr. Clinton's aides and representatives of private refugee organizations acknowledge that there is no guarantee that the Clinton plan will work.
It will not relieve the country's economic desperation, a major reason for the fears of a huge exodus, largely because it will not lift a 15-month trade embargo that was imposed by the Organization of American States to force out Haiti's military junta.
 
Lifting of Sanctions Opposed
 Mr. Clinton's aides argue that lifting the sanctions would be seen as rewarding the military-backed regime, and say they would consider moving to lift the embargo after a process to restore the legitimate Government is under way. The embargo has worsened the plight of Haiti's poor and in doing so, ultimately encouraged more of the country's citizens to seek refuge in the United States.
As part of the policy, Mr. Clinton would try to boost a fledgling effort by the United Nations to seek ways of restoring a legitimate government to Haiti. Last month, the United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali appointed Dante Caputo, a former foreign minister of Argentina, as his personal representative in Haiti.
Mr. Caputo met in Haiti two weeks ago with top officials in the military-backed government, including Prime Minister Marc Bazin and the army chief, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, and with supporters of Father Aristide, the ousted President.
The Haitian military opposes the restoration of Father Aristide's Government, and Mr. Caputo has no authority to negotiate a political settlement. Rather, his mandate is simply to report back to the United Nations General Assembly. The Assembly's recommendations, unlike those of the Security Council, are nonbinding.
Mr. Clinton will also have to deal with the perception that the United States has a double standard in granting political asylum and that many more Cubans who apply as refugees are warmly welcomed, while fewer Haitians seem to qualify.
Mr. Clinton is also expected to endorse an increase in the number of human rights monitors, particularly in the countryside, and to publicly detail and denounce widespread human rights abuses.
These measures, and the notion of having consular officials spread through the countryside to process asylum requests, are intended to reduce the need for Haitians to go to a central area to seek asylum. Many Haitians fear that by reporting to such an area, they will be identified by government officials and punished afterward if their asylum request is rejected.
The Clinton plan was drafted by Mr. Attwood, the chief liaison between the Clinton team and the State Department. Many of the ideas contained in today's proposal were first presented in an options paper prepared last month by Representative Stephen R. Solarz, Democrat of Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: While plans on dealing with fleeing Haitians were presented to President-elect Bill Clinton, a freighter carrying 352 refugees sailed yesterday into Miami. These four looked out after the ship docked. Page A2. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CUBA (78%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CUBA (78%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION POLITICAL ASYLUM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); COUPS (68%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



159 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Bonds of Tyranny Prove Slippery For Dissident Fleeing From China

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 5

 BODY:
The surprising thing about Zheng Yi is that he turned out to be as successful as a fugitive as he was as a writer.
When Mr. Zheng, a well-known author, was made the target of a nationwide search three and a half years ago, almost no one would have bet on his escape. Mr. Zheng had been a leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement, and the Government had branded him a "most wanted" outlaw and distributed posters with his picture and description. 
 But in an odyssey that speaks volumes about the loosening of controls in China in the 1990's, Mr. Zheng, who is 45, ran circles around the police and finally escaped the country. He is to arrive in New York on Wednesday, on a plane from a secret location outside China where he has been hiding.
Mr. Zheng's feat would probably have been impossible in the Maoist era, and it reflects the emergence of a more mobile and pluralistic society in which Chinese repression is often impotent. Try as it might, China is no longer very successful at being a police state.
Under Mao, Chinese sometimes turned their family members over to the police, but not a single person betrayed Mr. Zheng in his three and a half years on the run.
Just the opposite: in the same way that sympathetic Chinese hid Communist Party members before the 1949 revolution, fed them and moved them along their way, so ordinary citizens in the 1990's were willing to risk imprisonment to shelter Mr. Zheng and other Tiananmen fugitives.
 
An Interview in Hiding
 "It's a fundamental difference from earlier times," said Mr. Zheng (whose full name is pronounced juhng ee). "There were about 100 people who knew my identity -- knew my name and knew about the arrest warrant -- and yet they helped us."
Relaxed and bubbling with energy as he sat on a couch beside his wife, Bei Ming, Mr. Zheng spoke in a five-hour interview in his hiding place outside China while awaiting a United States visa. A condition of the interview was that the location not be disclosed for fear of damaging relations between China and the place that gave him refuge.
Several hundred other dissidents who were active in the Tiananmen movement also managed to escape from China, some on their own and others on a modern Underground Railroad. Most of their escapes were kept quiet, in part because the host countries feared that publicity would antagonize Beijing.
Mr. Zheng may be the last of the fugitives to escape; no more are known to be still on the run in China. But just last fall, about a dozen members of an underground rights organization successfully fled the country after the secret police discovered their identities and moved to arrest them.
 
A Little Help From His Friends
 Fugitives like Mr. Zheng were successful because in today's China they were able to obtain forged identity cards and blend in with the tens of millions of other Chinese who now travel from place to place. They were also able to make deals with fishermen who smuggle people and goods.
But the element that everyone who escapes emphasizes is the overwhelming support they receive.
"I couldn't have done it by myself," said Mr. Zheng, a stocky man with unruly hair and a vigorous laugh. "Lots of people helped, and I didn't even know many of them beforehand. In three years on the run, only one person refused to help."
Ms. Bei, Mr. Zheng's wife, a 36-year-old writer and scholar who was with her husband for the last two and a half years, interjected: "People from all walks of life helped us. There were intellectuals, workers, peasants, private businessmen, soldiers, police, journalists, officials, even prostitutes."
 
Her Successful Search
 Ms. Bei (whose name is pronounced bay ming) was arrested after the Tiananmen crackdown and imprisoned for eight months. After her release, she accomplished what the police could not: she found her husband.
It took her four months of traveling around the country, constantly followed by secret-police officers, before she made the right contacts and was given a passage on the underground railroad. Finally, in the summer of 1990, Ms. Bei was smuggled into the town where her husband was hiding.
After three days in isolation to make sure she had not been followed, her guardians led her to the safe house where Mr. Zheng was staying. In a room full of friends, new and old, they were reunited.
"The only problem was that he was disguised really well," she said. "I didn't recognize him."
 
Disillusioned With Communism
 Mr. Zheng was once an enthusiastic Communist. During the Cultural Revolution, from 1966 to 1976, he was one of the millions of Red Guards wreaking havoc in the country. Then he became disillusioned with Communism, particularly when he was sent to live in a village, and he later attended university and became a writer in the central city of Taiyuan.
His works, often sympathetic portrayals of the countryside, became famous. One of them, "Old Well," was made into a prize-winning film.
Mr. Zheng and Ms. Bei were visiting Beijing when the Tiananmen democracy movement began in April 1989. Mr. Zheng immediately rose to the forefront, and he was among the first to propose a student hunger strike.
After army troops crushed the protests on June 4, 1989, killing hundreds of workers and students, Mr. Zheng promptly went into hiding. Ms. Bei, who was a Communist Party member but who had edited the Tiananmen movement's unofficial newspaper, lived quietly at home in Taiyuan in the belief that she would not be arrested.
The police did detain her, however, and released her only in the spring of 1990. She set out to find her husband.
 
It Was Once Hard to Get Lost
 "I traveled by train, bus, taxi, tractor, rickshaw and rail cars, but even when I lost my followers and disguised myself, they would find me again," she recalled.
It has always been far more difficult to disappear in a Communist country than in a Western one. All Chinese must show identification cards when renting hotel rooms or buying train tickets, and normally it is impossible to work or rent an apartment without a local residence permit. Two confidential personnel files are kept on every urban resident, and these are supposed to be examined by officials before providing anyone with a job.
This system of controls is breaking down, however.
China is an increasingly mobile and economically sophisticated society, with more hotels, trains and long-distance buses. Out-of-towners no longer attract suspicion, and privately employed Chinese with no regular job are ubiquitous. It is no longer true, as it used to be, that there is no place to hide.
 
True Photos, False Names
 The boom in free enterprise means that there are now private businesses that do not always bother to examine personnel files or ID cards; money is enough. Moreover, a booming market has emerged in recent years for false documents and residence permits.
False ID cards are normally expensive, for police officials must be bribed to issue them, but sympathizers gave Mr. Zheng and Ms. Bei forged papers free. The new cards used their real photos -- as they had disguised themselves -- but used different names.
While on the run, Mr. Zheng and Ms. Bei traveled widely, living in villages and cities in many provinces. They declined to provide any details for fear of getting friends in trouble.
For the same reason, they say little about how they disguised themselves. But Mr. Zheng said that for a time he worked as a carpenter, pretending to be a half-witted peasant who spoke only a country dialect.
"That was the hardest thing -- not speaking standard Mandarin when I opened my mouth," he said. "So at first, whenever anybody asked me a question, I would have to pause and think about how to answer it in dialect."
He said, however, that the pauses proved useful, for they contributed to the image of an idiot.
 
A Dream of Being Published
 Mr. Zheng used his time to write two books: one about cannibalism during the Cultural Revolution, the other an indictment of the Communist Party since its founding in China more than 70 years ago. Acquaintances smuggled out copies of the manuscripts to friends in the United States, with instructions to arrange for them to be published.
"I figured that I'd stay in China, living underground for years while publishing abroad," Mr. Zheng said. "That would infuriate the party."
The problem was that his friends abroad worried that publication would lead the security forces to step up their hunt. So they held off publication, and Mr. Zheng finally decided that if he wanted his books published, he would have to leave China.
Mr. Zheng and Ms. Bei plan to return to China as soon as they are confident that they will not be arrested.
"I'm optimistic," he said. "Within three or five years, China will change and we'll be able to go back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zheng Yi, a dissident who has evaded capture for three and a half years, with his wife, Bei Ming. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PRISONERS INTERVIEWS (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); ARRESTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; ZHENG YI; MAO ZEDONG (1893-1976)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



160 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: New York Fed's President Resigning

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
E. Gerald Corrigan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, announced yesterday that he would resign in August after more than eight years in that post and 25 years with the Federal Reserve.
Mr. Corrigan, 51, said at a news conference that he planned to seek a job in private industry where "I'll try to limit myself to working six days a week, instead of seven." But he did not elaborate on his career plans. 
 As president of the New York Fed, Mr. Corrigan is the second-most-prominent person in the Federal Reserve after its chairman, and he has been in the middle of financial turmoil ranging from the third-world debt crisis to the stock market crash in 1987.
 
'Crucial Role' After Crash
 "He played a crucial role providing the psychological reassurance for a few critical days after the stock market crash," said Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve Board chairman.
At the news conference, Mr. Corrigan said the period right after the crash was his most memorable on the job. "In terms of my pulse rate, that one takes the prize," he said.
Mr. Corrigan's successor will be chosen by the board of the New York Fed, which is made up of bankers and other executives from the region, and must be approved by the Fed's board of governors. The position has an annual salary of about $250,000. Mr. Corrigan said he expected a new president to be named before he left.
The New York Fed is one of 12 banks that make up the Federal Reserve System, but it has a special role because its region includes many of the nation's largest banks and securities markets. In addition, it conducts the Treasury's debt auctions.
Mr. Corrigan has long ties to Mr. Volcker, who brought him to Washington as an aide in 1979 and acted as his mentor.
"Gerry has a good conceptual understanding of the financial world, but most importantly he knows how to get things done," Mr. Volcker said. "That's a rare quality in the bureaucratic world in which he has grown up."
Alan Greenspan, the current chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, also praised Mr. Corrigan. "His contributions to monetary and financial policy, to banking supervision and regulation and to international cooperation and coordination in these areas are legion," Mr. Greenspan said in a statement.
Mr. Corrigan, discussing his tenure, said he was particularly proud that he called attention to the risks in the payment system that transfers money between banks. As the volume of transactions has increased, especially across borders, Mr. Corrigan and others have worried that the failure of one bank could cause problems for other banks that did business with it and trigger a financial crisis.
Financial regulators, prompted by the Group of 30, a financial study group to which Mr. Corrigan belongs, have produced several ways to reduce this risk. Among the proposals accepted in a number of countries is one to eliminate paper stock certificates, thereby shortening the time to settle securities transactions.
"We have succeeded in getting financial institutions here and abroad to focus on the plumbing of the banking system," he said.
Mr. Corrigan has become prominent among international central bankers and is chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a group of central bankers that has worked to create uniform worldwide standards for bank capital. He also made a widely noted speech last year warning of the risk to the banking system of complex new transactions, like interest rate swaps, that do not appear on a bank's balance sheet.
Still, under his tenure as head of the New York Fed, the Federal Reserve has been criticized for Treasury auctions in which Salomon Brothers submitted some false bids to buy more bonds than it was allowed, and for not clamping down sooner on the scandal-ridden Bank of Credit and Commerce International. At the news conference, however, Mr. Corrigan insisted that "If it wasn't for the Fed, there is a pretty good chance that B.C.C.I. would still be in business."
Mr. Corrigan joined the New York Fed in 1968 as an economist. After working with Mr. Volcker in Washington, he was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis from 1980 to 1985.
Mr. Corrigan said he wanted to remain active in policy debates and that he eventually intended to write a book on the issues raised by his experiences at the Fed.
Mr. Volcker suggested that Mr. Corrigan might have a future running one of the banks that he regulated.
"He is very well suited to running a big institution that had problems," Mr. Volcker said. "All his life he has being dealing with problems in a very methodical way."
While members of the Federal Reserve board of governors are prohibited from later working in commercial banks, there is no such restriction on the presidents of the Federal Reserve banks.
The New York Fed board is expected to look widely for candidates to succeed Mr. Corrigan among officials of the Federal Reserve, other Government agencies and possibly in the private sector.

GRAPHIC: Photo: E. Gerald Corrigan, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, announcing at a news conference that he will resign in August. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (74%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); AUCTIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; CORRIGAN, E GERALD ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



161 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Steven P. Jobs may have found a way to move Next Inc., his struggling work station company, to center stage in the desktop computer industry. Next is said to be in talks with Hewlett-Packard about licensing its Nextstep software technology. [Page D1.]
Citibank is altering its lending rules and procedures in hopes of cutting its loan losses. [D1.] 
 NEC will introduce personal computers at about half the price of its current models. [D1.]
Digital's second in command announced his retirement. John F. Smith, senior vice president of operations, had once been considered a successor to the founder, Kenneth H. Olsen. [D4.]
Microsoft tapped a top software executive at Apple to head up its data base applications business. [D4.] Apple will become the first large computer maker to introduce a computer keyboard designed to reduce hand injuries from typing. [D4.]
A.T.& T. acknowledged that its Videophone cost too much, saying it would cut the price by a third. [D4.]
Chrysler publicly displayed a prototype of its first all-new full-size pickup truck in 22 years. [D5.]
R. H. Macy reported a $33.6 million loss in November, but its cash flow was better than expected. [D5.]
Boeing and Deutsche Aerospace plan to work to determine the feasibility of a giant 550- to 800-passenger airliner. [D5.]
Calgene has asked the F.D.A. to approve as a food additive a gene implanted in tomatoes to retard spoilage. [D4.]
 
The Economy
The president of New York's Federal Reserve Bank will quit in August. E. Gerald Corrigan served 25 years with the Fed. [D1.]
Ronald H. Brown will disqualify himself from decisions involving some companies, if he is confirmed as Commerce Secretary. [A14.]
The head of the House Banking Committee introduced legislation to hold the central bank more politically accountable. [D6.]
The corrosion that led Portland General Electric to retire its Trojan nuclear plant will affect more reactors, experts say. [D5.]
 
Markets
Investors moved into cyclical and technology issues, and the Dow industrials fell 1.35 points, to 3,307.87. [D6.]
An avalanche of new issues is waiting to fall on the corporate bond market, but it is not clear whether the crush of new securities will overwhelm investors, forcing prices lower. [D14.]
The British pound dominated currency trading. The dollar fell. [D15.] Coffee futures fell sharply for a second day. [D15.]
C.D. and money market yields at banks are slightly lower in the New York market, but little changed in other areas. [D14.]
 
Business Technology
The pen-computing industry could take flight if better software is developed for recognizing handwriting and translating it into typeface. Lexicus may be closest to a commercial product. [D2.]
 
Today's Columns
Some analysts expect A & W's stock to catch up with the shares of other beverage companies. Market Place. [D6.]
The National Hockey League is firing off a round of advertising and promotion efforts. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]
 
The New Stock Tables
The Times has introduced new stock market tables this week to improve legibility and provide additional information about trading volume and price changes. The new tables use some abbreviations that differ from those formerly used.
Readers who need assistance in finding stocks, or in understanding the new tables, may call (212) 556-5899, which will be answered from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Sunday through Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (68%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); POR (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (68%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (68%); H BROWN LTD (66%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); BOEING CO (55%); PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); CURRENCIES (85%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (72%); COFFEE MARKETS (71%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); FUTURES (66%); BONDS (66%); FOOD ADDITIVES (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); COFFEE (61%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (61%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (61%); POWER PLANTS (61%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (61%); BOND MARKETS (61%); BRITISH POUND (60%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



162 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in West Point Valedictory, Offers Principles on Use of Force

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WEST POINT, N.Y., Jan. 5

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's address to West Point cadets:
Let me begin with the hard part. It is difficult for a Navy person to come up to West Point after that game a month ago. 
 But I watched it. Amazing things can happen in sports. Look at the Oilers, my other team, that took it on the chin the other day.
But I guess the morale of -- moral of all this is that losing is never easy -- trust me -- I know something about that. But if you -- if you have to lose, that's the way to do it. Fight with all you have, give it your best shot, and win or lose, learn from it and get on with life. And I'm about to get on with the rest of my life.
But before I do, I want to share with you at this institution of leadership some of my thinking, both about the world you will soon be called upon to enter, and the life that you've chosen.
Any President has several functions. He speaks for and to the nation. He must faithfully execute the law, and he must lead. But no function, none of the President's hats, in my view, is more important than his role as Commander in Chief. For it is as Commander in Chief that the President confronts and makes decisions that, one way or another, affects the lives of everyone in this country as well as many others around the world.
And I've had many occasions to don this most important of hats, and over the past four years, the men and women who proudly and bravely wear the uniforms of the U.S. armed services, have been called upon to go in harm's way, and have discharged their duty with honor and professionalism.
 
Time of Great Promise
 I wish I could say that such demands were a thing of the past, that with the end of the cold war, the calls upon the United States would diminish. I cannot. Yes, the end of the cold war, we would all concede, is a blessing. It is a time of great promise. Democratic governments have never been so numerous. What happened two or three days ago in Moscow would not have been possible in the cold-war days.
Thanks to historic treaties such as that Start II pact just reached with Russia, the likelihood of nuclear holocaust is vastly diminished. But this does not mean that there is no specter of war, no threats to be reckoned with, and already we see disturbing signs of what this new world could become if we are passive and aloof.
We would risk the emergence of a world characterized by violence, characterized by chaos, one in which dictators and tyrants threaten their neighbors, build arsenals brimming with weapons of mass destruction, and ignore the welfare of their own men, women and children. And we could see a horrible increase in international terrorism, with American citizens more at risk than ever before.
 
 
. . .
 Two hundred years ago, another departing President warned of the dangers of what he described as "entangling alliances." His was the right course for a new nation at that point in history. But what was entangling in Washington's day is now essential.
And this is why at Texas A&M a few weeks ago, I spoke of the folly of isolationism and of the importance, morally, economically and strategically of the United States remaining involved in world affairs. We must engage ourselves if a new world order, one more compatible with our values and congenial to our interests, is to emerge. But even more, we must lead.
 
When U.S. Should Act
 Leadership: well, it takes many forms. It can be political or diplomatic, it can be economic or military, it can be moral or spiritual leadership. Leadership can take any one of these forms or it can be a combination of them. Leadership should not be confused with either unilateralism or universalism. We need not respond by ourselves to each and every outrage of violence. The fact that America can act does not mean that it must.
 
. . .
 Sometimes, sometimes the decision not to use force, to stay our hand, I can tell you it's just as difficult as a decision to send our soldiers into battle. The former Yugoslavia, well, it's been such a situation.
There are, we all know, important humanitarian and strategic interests at stake there, but up to now it's not been clear that the application of limited amounts of force by the United States and its traditional friends and allies would have had the desired effect, given the nature and the complexity of that situation.
Our assessment of the situation in the former Yugoslavia could well change if and as the situation changes. The stakes could grow. The conflict could threaten to spread. Indeed, we are constantly reassessing our options and are actively consulting with others about steps that might be taken to contain the fighting, protect the humanitarian effort and deny Serbia the fruits of aggression.
Military force is never a tool to be used lightly, or universally. In some circumstances it may be essential. In others, counterproductive. I know that many people would like to find some formula, some easy formula to apply, to tell us with precision when and where to intervene with force.
 
 
. . .
Criteria for Force
 But to warn against a futile quest for a set of hard and fast rules to govern the use of military force is not to say there cannot be some principles to inform our decisions. Such guidelines can prove useful in sizing and indeed shaping our forces, and in helping us to think our way through this key question.
Using military force makes sense as a policy where the stakes warrant, where and when force can be effective, where no other policies are likely to prove effective, where its application can be limited in scope and time, and where the potential benefits justify the potential costs and sacrifice.
Once we are satisfied that force makes sense, we must act with the maximum possible support. The United States can and should lead, but we will want to act in concert, where possible, involving the United Nations or other multinational grouping.
 
 
. . .
 But in every case involving the use of force, it will be essential to have a clear and achievable mission, a realistic plan for accomplishing the mission, and criteria no less realistic for withdrawing U.S. forces once the mission is complete.
Only if we keep these principles in mind will the potential sacrifice be one that can be explained and justified.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY) UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (92%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY) UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (92%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COLD WAR (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



163 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Citibank Rethinks Its Lending

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Citibank, which made more than its share of lending mistakes in the 1980's and paid a severe price for its laxness, is altering its lending rules and procedures in hopes of cutting loan losses.
Executives at the bank, the nation's largest, are not saying exactly how lending standards are changing or whether Citibank will continue making giant loans, like those exceeding $200 million that it made in the 1980's, without selling a large part of them to other lenders, as most banks do. 
 Still, the new procedures do promise uniform lending standards across the bank and a new commitment by top management, including the chairman, John S. Reed, to spend more time discussing large loans and to keep closer track of how much risk the bank is taking in particular industries or regions.
 
Guidelines Not Always Followed
 "I think we have always had a lot of first-rate lenders," said William R. Rhodes, the vice chairman. But he said the loan officials were too often undermined by the willingness of top management -- many of them no longer with the bank -- to exceed the bank's guidelines on concentrations of loans for commercial real estate and highly indebted companies.
Losses in both areas have been heavy, particularly in commercial real estate, which has accounted for write-offs of $2.8 billion since the end of 1990. Citicorp's total loan write-offs soared to $4.9 billion in 1991, from $1.5 billion in 1987.
The write-offs were humbling, disclosing that Citicorp's management, despite high praise in the 1980's from Wall Street analysts, failed to manage adequately its lending to businesses. Even after losses were evident in 1990, Citicorp was slower than some other banks with large loan losses, like First Fidelity in Newark, to adopt a uniform loan rating system and begin studying more carefully the riskiest borrowers.
Although Citibank's losses from loans declined during the first three quarters of 1992, analysts say it will be a few years before they can tell whether the new system is effective.
The changes at Citibank began to take shape a year ago when Mr. Rhodes was named head of a special task force, which spent three months interviewing retired Citibank executives and talking with other banks like Deutsche Bank and Chase Manhattan to learn their procedures for controlling lending risks. According to Mr. Rhodes, the task force was appointed without any prompting by regulators or Citicorp's board.
Under the new system, the five-member management committee meets twice a month with Robert Martinsen, head of the credit policy committee, to determine how much risk the bank should take in particular industries and regions of the world, and how those risks might change as economic conditions change.
Besides Mr. Reed and Mr. Rhodes, the committee members are H. Onno Rudding, the vice chairman in charge of corporate lending; Paul J. Collins, vice chairman, and Pei Yuan Chia, head of consumer banking.
The committee is also charged with monitoring loans to very large customers or other special situations. Mr. Reed, for example, is directly involved in handling some of the largest commercial real estate loans, while Mr. Rhodes deals with loans to less developed countries.
With the changes comes a new role for the credit policy committee, a group of about 10 senior lenders headed by Mr. Martinsen, 58. Instead of approving or denying every loan above $25 million as in the past, the committee will concentrate on assessing the overall risk of Citicorp's loan portfolio, the largest of any bank in the country.
Other large banks also have credit committees that consider loans above a certain size or a certain level of risk. As at Citibank, those committees develop and refine systems to rate loans according to risk. Besides helping a bank avoid loans that will turn bad, these ratings allow banks to spot problems sooner, usually before default occurs, and change prices so that higher-risk borrowers pay higher interest rates and fees.
Mr. Martinsen embarked on a program of training and writing loan policy manuals so that standards would be uniform in all parts of the bank. Using the standards that are in place or will be soon, all existing and potential business loans in the 90 countries where Citibank operates will be rated on a 10-point scale. A 1 rating will correspond to an extremely low-risk loan to a triple-A-rated borrower and a 10 will correspond to a loan that would have to be written off as a loss in whole or in part.
Most of Citibank's loans are rated 3 or 4, the bank says, but officials declined to discuss trends in ratings or loss experiences in different categories. They also declined to describe the risks of lower rated loans, particularly the 6 rating, which at other banks with a 10-point scale corresponds to loans that require special attention, or the 7 rating, which would be deemed "substandard" by Federal bank examiners and would require that a sum be subtracted from the bank's profits and set aside as a reserve against possible losses.
 
'Talking in the Same Language'
 "Our history as a very decentralized company was a problem that had to be changed so that everyone could be talking in the same language," Mr. Martinsen said. He noted that Citibank's corporate lenders in North America already had a similar 10-grade rating system, but that it was not always properly used and was not extended to operations worldwide.
Under the new system, the credit policy committee will be involved only with the unusual loans that might breach standards regarding loan quality or concentration on a particular borrower or industry. Lending officers have been warned that they should no longer try to "beat the system" by submitting questionable loans that they know may be favored by some members of the committee.
While the credit policy committee will no longer have as tight a grip on every sizable loan as it had in the past, Citibank is compensating by making the heads of its 15 business groups more involved in lending. Each of these executives is responsible for adhering to loan standards and avoiding risky concentrations of loans in their business group. Responsibility for individual loans falls to lower ranking executives, but the head of each business group must answer for the group's performance at the monthly meetings with Mr. Reed and the others on the management committee.
 
Deciding the Limits
 By more clearly identifying who is responsible for lending mistakes, Citibank has become comfortable with a general increase in the lending limits assigned to each of the 500 "initials," or officers empowered to make loans. Under the new system, lending limits vary by the riskiness of the loan, with a 1-rated borrower allowed the highest dollar amount. As in the past, every loan will require three sets of initials.
Beyond mere reorganization, Mr. Martinsen said the revival of what bankers call "credit culture" was intended to refocus on the judgments of lenders trying constantly to balance the desire to earn profits by making loans and the desire to avoid loss by not making loans that are too risky.
"We have to instill the idea that credit quality is more important than profit opportunities that come with big risks," Mr. Martinsen said. In the past, he acknowledged, "we were profit driven to the point of not being as prudent as we should have been."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Struggling With Loan Losses" shows Citibank's loan losses as a percentage of total loans from '80 to '92 (Source: Keefe, Bruyette & Woods)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CITIBANK CITIGROUP INC (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); NEW JERSEY, USA (53%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION CREDIT REGULATION (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



164 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Bush Vetoes Not Forgotten As 103d Congress Convenes

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
The 103d Congress convened today and Democratic leaders promptly set about establishing legislative priorities to demonstrate that they can work with a Democratic President by re-passing bills President Bush vetoed.
A bill requiring employers to grant workers unpaid leaves for family and medical emergencies emerged at the top of the list. Both Houses scheduled early action on it, and President-elect Bill Clinton's choice as chief of staff, Thomas F. McLarty 3d, called for action "as early in the session as possible." 
 The House did not escape its traditional opening-day wrangling over rules, with Republicans accusing Democrats of bullying them. But the Democrats maintained enough unity to gain passage of a measure giving five delegates from American Samoa, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands votes on amendments on the floor.
 
Compromise Over Bill
 But to hold their own majority, the Democrats watered down the measure. The proposed rule, which finally passed on a 221-to-199 vote, provided that any time the delegates votes decided an issue, there would immediately be a second ballot in which the delegates would be prohibited from voting.
Other than the rules fight, it was a day of traditional formalities -- swearing in new members, notifying President Bush that Congress was in session and reviewing procedures for Wednesday's counting of the electoral votes that will show Mr. Clinton defeated Mr. Bush.
Discipline was generally relaxed. The Senate tolerated applause from the galleries when new members were sworn in. In the House, children of lawmakers sat on their parents' laps.
In the House, Republicans talked of the need for "reform and renewal," as Representative Robert H. Michel of Illinois, the minority leader, put it. He said the House had to adhere to the basic principle that the rights of the minority were "equal in dignity and importance and in no way subservient to the principle of majority rule."
The House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley, replied that the public was indeed impatient "with the pace of reform and change." But the Washington Democrat said the public's impatience was not over House procedures but over substance and the failure of Congress to legislate solutions to national problems.
The Senate's brief session ended without a word on legislation or national problems. Newly elected and re-elected senators were sworn in and went off to each other's celebrations, while some Republicans went back to their offices to prepare for the confirmation hearings of Mr. Clinton's Cabinet choices, which begin Wednesday.
Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, told a news conference that the efforts he was coordinating to research the nominees were intended to be constructive.
"We're certainly not out with a hatchet to get anybody," he said, although he expressed concern that the Federal Bureau of Investigation was not being given enough time to investigate Cabinet nominees thoroughly.
Mr. Foley's speech, after his election to a second full term as Speaker, offered the fullest description of Democratic legislative hopes available.
Speaking of the national frustration with Congress, he said, "There is an impatience that we have not moved fast enough or effectively enough to deal with the national deficit, to deal with our economic system and its advancement and growth, to deal with the problems of our health system that deny still to millions of Americans adequate and affordable health care, to provide educational opportunity for all of our citizens, to reduce crime and to attack the problems of drugs and other social ills."
But no legislation that profound is on the early short list. For the most part, the list includes measures that have been thoroughly debated and on which Democrats are in basic agreement.
Beyond the family leave bill, other measures given priority designations included a bill to expand voter registration by requiring states to allow voters to register when they obtain drivers' licenses or social services and one to broaden the research agenda of the National Institutes of Health, especially in matters of women's health and prostate cancer.
Mr. Bush had vetoed the registration bill last year, saying it could increase voter fraud and he vetoed the measure on the institutes because he said it allowed the use of aborted fetus tissue in research on Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and diabetes.
The family leave bill was designated H.R.1, as the first bill introduced in the House in the new Congress. Representative William D. Ford, the Michigan Democrat who heads the Education and Labor Committee, said he hoped it could be signed in Mr. Clinton's first month in office.
The bill would require businesses with at least 50 workers to give their employees up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave when there is a birth or adoption in the family; seriously ill children, parents, husbands or wives need care, or the workers themselves have serious illnesses.
 
Importance of Legislation
 Mr. McLarty wrote to Congressional committee chairmen that Mr. Clinton considered the bill "a critical recognition of the importance of families and of the need to enable family members to support and care for one another."
The bill is expected to come before a House subcommittee next week, and then the full committee before the end of this month. In the Senate, it will be introduced Jan. 21, have a hearing on Jan. 22 and be voted out of the Labor and Human Resources Committee on Jan. 26.
The labor committee plans the identical timetable for the institutes of health legislation, which Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, said would be designated S.1 once it was introduced.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Not all the noise from the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday was from the opening-day formalities of its members. Children, on hand for the swearing-in of their lawmaker-parents, moved on to their own entertainment while the proceedings turned to discussion of procedures. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GUAM (79%); AMERICAN SAMOA (58%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GUAM (79%); AMERICAN SAMOA (58%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); LABOR; FAMILY LEAVES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); BULLYING (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (91%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



165 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: NEC, in Strategy Shift, Is Entering PC Price War

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Japan's personal computer market, which has remained remarkably insulated from the fierce price-cutting elsewhere, finally seems to be facing a price war of its own.
The NEC Corporation, which controls more than half the personal computer market here, said today that it would soon introduce a new line of personal computers with prices about half those for its current models. 
 The action comes after NEC has insisted for months that it would not engage in any price wars. Analysts interpret the move as a recognition by the company that it will lose its hold on the market unless it responds to lower-priced competitors, including American companies like Compaq Computer, that have entered the Japanese market with products honed in the savage price battles in the United States.
"It's an interim recognition of the pricing trends," said Michael Jeremy, analyst with Baring Securities in Tokyo. "It seems that within the company, the lobby for maintaining market share has won out over the lobby for maintaining profits or revenues."
In October, Compaq introduced machines in Japan that sell for about half the prices of those from NEC and other Japanese companies. The International Business Machines Corporation introduced inexpensive models shortly thereafter and Apple Computer and Digital Equipment cut prices. The Dell Computer Corporation is planning to announce its entry into the Japanese market later this month.
Until now, NEC has pooh-poohed the challenge from Compaq, noting that the Houston-based company has little distribution in Japan and that there is far more Japanese software available for the NEC computers. "Unless you have comparable functions, we don't see any need to lower our prices," Tadahiro Sekimoto, the president of NEC, said last month.
Still, a spokesman for NEC acknowledged today that growing price competition caused the company to accelerate its plans to introduce newer low-priced models. But, he said, the main reason for the lower prices was greater manufacturing efficiency and more advanced technology.
 
Prices: $2,000 to $2,400
 NEC said its new machines, which it expects to introduce around the end of this month, will be based on the Intel Corporation's 486 series of microprocessors and have entry level prices of 250,000 to 300,000 yen, or about $2,000 to $2,400.
That is still higher than the price of roughly $1,600 for Compaq's least expensive 486-SX machine here, but far cheaper than what NEC has offered until now. NEC's least expensive desktop computer with a 486-SX microprocessor now has a list price of 548,000 yen, or about $4,400, while its least expensive 486 notebook machine costs 348,000 yen, or $2,800.
NEC is being threatened by more than just low prices, however. Its machine is not compatible with the standard originally set by I.B.M., which is now used by most of the world's personal computers. "I still think they haven't addressed the major problem," Mr. Jeremy said, referring to NEC's proprietary system.
Compaq, I.B.M. and the other American companies are offering I.B.M.-compatible machines using DOS/V software, a Japanese adaptation of Microsoft's operating system.
Several Japanese companies are also now offering DOS/V machines, making the software a contender to become the standard that may unseat NEC's approach. As an acknowledgment of that trend, Fujitsu Ltd., which also sells a proprietary system here, recently said that it might also introduce I.B.M.-compatible machines in the Japanese market.
NEC, which has sold more than 5.7 million of its 9800-series personal computers, says it has no intention now of selling I.B.M.-compatible machines in Japan. As a practical matter, the company cannot afford to abandon the customers who bought its machines.
But analysts say NEC could face an increasing risk because competitors that adhere to the I.B.M. standard can potentially undercut NEC's prices by buying disk drives, video displays and other components that are made in huge volumes, while NEC must make specialized components for its machines.
No other nonstandard personal computer has survived, with the exception of the Apple Macintosh. But the Macintosh has unique features in its software that the NEC machine does not have. And Apple sells the computer throughout the world to achieve its large volumes.
Still, NEC has considerable strength, and many Japanese customers will stick with it because of its base of software, wide distribution and service.
While a price war could hurt the profit margins of NEC and other manufacturers, it could give a boost to personal computer sales, which have been sagging because of Japan's economic slump. In the six months that ended in September, unit sales of personal computers in Japan fell 9 percent, compared with the corresponding period a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6701 (TSE) (96%); DELL (NASDAQ) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); IBMC (BRU) (83%); IBM (NYSE) (83%); IBM (LSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (76%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: NEC CORP NEC CORP (96%); DELL INC (84%); INTEL CORP (83%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEC CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (76%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (95%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); TRENDS (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); LOBBYING (74%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); MICROPROCESSORS (65%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



166 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Effects of Segregation Told in a Trial

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WEST HARTFORD, Conn., Jan. 5

 BODY:
Lawyers seeking to integrate Hartford's schools with suburban ones offered evidence today from some of the best-known studies on the effects of segregation on black students: studies of a 25-year desegregation program in Hartford and its suburbs, Project Concern.
The studies' main author, Prof. Robert L. Crain, has testified about Project Concern in school-desegregation cases across the nation. Their findings, he said today, are the "central national evidence" that segregation perpetuates itself -- that children who attend segregated schools live segregated lives as adults. 
 "Segregation proved to have long-term harmful effects," testified Professor Crain, a sociologist from Teachers College at Columbia University. It discouraged black students from completing high school or college, led them into segregated, low-level occupations, and limited their contact with whites.
The focus on Project Concern brought into the open many of the uncomfortable ironies of the lawsuit being heard here, which in challenging the racial and economic segregation of Hartford's schools is seeking a desegregation plan covering the city and 21 surrounding towns.
 
State Defends Its Role
 While the plaintiffs say the studies of Project Concern prove the harm of segregation, the State of Connecticut, the defendant in the case, argues that the very existence of Project Concern shows that the state has been trying to promote integration.
The segregation that divides Hartford, where schools have a minority enrollment of 90 percent, from its suburbs, where schools are 90 percent white, is found across the North and West, where the migration of Southern blacks in the 1950's and 60's speeded the movement of whites to the suburbs.
Lawyers for the state say that the state did not cause the residential segregation, but that it has tried to combat the growing segregation of schools in Hartford.
Isn't Project Concern the oldest desegregation plan in the nation sending children across city lines, Alfred A. Lindseth, an Atlanta lawyer hired by the state, asked Professor Crain. "Can you think of any in the entire country that have been continuously in effect for over 25 years?"
 
Larger Program Backed
 "There may not be any others," Mr. Crain replied. "When this was done in 1966, it was a pretty important program."
For the civil-rights lawyers arguing the suit, however, the results of Project Concern are crucial evidence that a much larger integration effort between Hartford and its suburbs would benefit the city's children.
The children who stayed in Project Concern through graduation from suburban high schools, Mr. Crain testified, not only had more years of college education, but were more likely to live in mixed or white neighborhoods, have friends who were white, and work in an integrated environment, while being less likely to perceive discrimination around them.
And while Project Concern is a source of pride for many people in Hartford and its suburbs, its small scale is evidence of how limited the region's desegregation efforts have been. Only 680 children attend suburban schools through the program, down from a high of 1,175 in 1978. The city's schools have 25,700 children attending them.
 
State Agrees With Suers
 This suit is also unusual in that the state agrees with the goal of those who are suing it: improving the education of Hartford's children by integrating them with children from surrounding towns. The state wants to achieve that goal voluntary or legislatively, not by court order.
But as lawyers for the state question Project Concern, a desegregation plan that meets one of the state's own main requirements, that a plan be voluntary, they unavoidably raise doubts whether the common goal -- integration -- carries any benefits.
"Weren't these schools all white?" Mr. Lindseth asked of the suburban schools taking part in Project Concern. "So isn't this really a study of how blacks do in a white school, not a desegregated school?"
In Project Concern, children from schools in the predominantly black North End of Hartford are invited at random to attend schools in other towns. Parents and the children can reject the invitation, or choose to return to city schools at any time.
 
Efforts of the City
 In the program's first years, the city not only made a great effort to see that all those selected took part, but also, at the insistence of the research director of West Hartford's schools, Edward Riedy, set up an experiment. A comparable group of children who stayed in city schools was identified as a control group.
Professor Crain's studies located students from the program's first years, and those from control groups, and questioned them about their years of college, their jobs, and their attitudes. Most were in their early 20's, and so, little difference in income or job status was found.
But in many other measures, he said, the Project Concern graduates were much more positive about participating in an integrated world, and were much more optimistic about their prospects for promotion at work.
The students who attended Hartford's segregated schools, he said, lacked a network of friends in the larger, white work world to point them toward job openings, had a harder time, in their language and dress, presenting themselves to employers, weren't relaxed with white supervisors, and were angrier and less able to deal with the demands of integrated settings.
 
'A Tough Desegregations Plan'
 Asked by Marianne Engleman Lado, a lawyer with the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., if students suffered any negative effects from Project Concern, Professor Crain said no.
Asked if desegregation was stressful for blacks, he replied emphatically, "Yes." Project Concern, he said, had few participants, so they were isolated, the suburban schools had few black teachers, and many children had long rides to school.
"This was a tough desegregation plan," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS (IN US); SUBURBS; URBAN AREAS; RESEARCH STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBURBS (89%); LAWYERS (79%); LITIGATION (79%); SUITS & CLAIMS (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE; CRAIN, ROBERT L (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



167 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Olympus Headquarters Is Opposed

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MELVILLE, L.I., Jan. 5

 BODY:
Despite promises of tax relief, new jobs and modern office buildings in a campus-like setting, some residents of this Long Island community are fighting plans by the Olympus Corporation to build its North American headquarters here.
The dispute mirrors the rejection several months ago by residents of Brookville, L.I., of plans for a new headquarters for the Canon Corporation, another Japanese camera and optical equipment company. Homeowners here, like those in Brookville, say they fear that commercial encroachment will depress their property values and increase traffic. 
 Canon decided to remain at its headquarters in Lake Success and perhaps look elsewhere. Olympus has already abandoned two other proposed sites on the Island because of zoning regulations. It started to look elsewhere when the State Department of Economic Development came up with the Melville site on the 516-acre Long Island Developmental Center, a state campus for the mentally retarded, most of which will close in April.
 
'Can't Afford to Lose'
 "We can't afford to lose this one," said James L. Larocca, president of the Long Island Association, the region's largest business and civic group. "It would send out the wrong message to the international business community and be a severe blow to the Island's economic future."
Olympus, which has been an employer on Long Island for almost 25 years, would like to consolidate its consumer and scientific divisions in a new headquarters here in Melville. The move from its cramped quarters in Lake Success would support 1,122 permanent full-time jobs, providing salaries of $55 million a year, according state officials.
Construction of the new headquarters on 53.7 acres of the state-owned property would generate another 1,163 temporary construction jobs, adding $58.8 million in payroll and other expenditures to the economy, state officials said.
But at a public hearing this afternoon sponsored by the State Department of Economic Development, residents who live near the proposed site expressed doubts about promises of tax relief and said more tax revenue would be generated if homes were built on the land.
 
A 99-Year Lease
 The builder, the Parr Development Corporation of Ronkonkoma, L.I., would pay an estimated $9.3 million to the state for a 99-year lease on the property with an option to buy after the 10th year for a nominal sum. Financing for the $40 million construction project would be provided by the Suffolk County Industrial Development Authority. Olympus would be given a 10-year tax abatement that would decrease each year. Taxes paid to the county by Olympus would reach $650,000 by the 11th year.
The Olympus headquarters would be set low in the middle of the site, surrounded by trees that would hide it from view to passing motorists. "Why are they doing this to us," said Patricia Lerner, who has lived in a home in neighboring Dix Hills for 24 years. "I would rather they make homes here.
"They say that Olympus would bring jobs. But many of the people who work for Olympus already live in Nassau and Suffolk County and would drive here instead of Lake Success."
Mrs. Lerner said that most homeowners were willing to give up the tax benefits the Olympus headquarters would bring. She said that many of the homes surrounding the state center were built on one-acre lots. About 10 years ago, she said, they sold for between $500,000 and $600,000, but now, because of the recession, were selling for half that amount.
 
Support for Project
 Mrs. Lerner was among about three dozen residents who came to the hearing in the auditorium of Building 9 of the Long Island Development Center. She and her friends were outnumbered by a crowd of more than 300 people, many of them construction workers who came to support the project.
"We need jobs," said Mike Simca, an electrician and resident of Melville. "If I don't get work soon, I may have to sell my house and leave the Island."
Mr. Larocca said the recession had cost more than 100,000 Long Islanders their jobs. "These are extraordinary times and require extraordinary measures," he said, backing the state's move to override local zoning ordinances in supporting the project.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Plans for building a headquarters for the Olympus Corporation in Melville, L.I., are opposed by some residents. The site, above, is a former state home for the retarded at the Long Island Developmental Center. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)
 
Map of Long Island showing location of proposed site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7733 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: OLYMPUS CORP; CANON USA INC; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF (NYS) OLYMPUS CORP (91%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLYMPUS CORP; CANON USA INC; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF (NYS) LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MELVILLE (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) ; BROOKVILLE (NY) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ZONING EMPLOYMENT (90%); ZONING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); TRENDS (75%); MENTAL RETARDATION (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ;MCQUISTON, JOHN T

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



168 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS -- ADVERTISING;
The N.H.L.'s Pitch to Go Prime Time

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
"HE shoots! He scores!" is a familiar refrain at National Hockey League games. Now the league, long considered woefully lagging in the competition for fan and sponsor dollars, is firing off a round of ambitious advertising and promotion efforts. Whether the league can score in a glutted sports market and a weak economy is as problematic as wondering when the New York Rangers will win another Stanley Cup.
"This is all part of a process, a marketing process, to accelerate the growth of the game," Steve Ryan, the president of N.H.L. Enterprises Inc. in New York, the league's marketing arm, said in an interview yesterday. 
 "The key will be to expand our base and reach what we're calling the action-sports fans."
A decade ago, the N.H.L. and the National Basketball Association shared a plight: how to sell sports that were perceived as having limited appeal. Through a series of shrewd marketing moves, the N.B.A. built a popularity rivaling that of football and baseball, while hockey remains mired in an arena of also-rans.
The N.H.L.'s difficulties were aggravated by one of the worst broadcast-rights agreements ever signed by a major-league sport. Though coverage has remained strong in Canada, where hockey is considered as integral an aspect of the national identity as Anne Murray, a deal with Sports Channel America, a secondary cable-TV network, kept N.H.L. games off the air for the last four years in many parts of the United States.
"You could have hidden Patty Hearst with that deal," said Brian T. Murphy, editor and publisher of the Sports Marketing Letter, a newsletter in Westport, Conn.
But it did have a positive side, he added: "The N.H.L. can effectively put its mistakes behind it because they were mistakes made with virtually no one watching."
Mr. Ryan agreed about the "value of network television for a sport," adding that "it has topspin in so many areas -- the development of stars, of licensing, of image. It truly becomes an advertising vehicle."
So, starting with the 1992-93 season, the N.H.L. shifted its coverage in this country to ESPN, a cable network available in 61 million households, compared with Sports Channel America's 16 million. The league has also hired its first commissioner, Gary Bettman, who, significantly, was lured from the N.B.A.; assumed control of its merchandise-licensing operations, and signed new sponsors like Gillette and Kellogg to join hockey stalwarts like Anheuser-Busch and Coca-Cola.
And the N.H.L. agreed last month to sell expansion franchises to two entertainment marketing powerhouses, the Walt Disney Company and the Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation.
"If you look at the quality of organizations investing $50 million in the N.H.L.," Mr. Ryan said, referring to the fees Disney and Blockbuster will pay for the franchises in Southern California and southern Florida, respectively, "you'll find they're companies with the reputation of being very prudent investors in terms of return on equity and return on investment."
Next comes a series of celebratory television commercials by Arnold Fortuna Lawner & Cabot in Boston, which will begin running Jan. 15 during national hockey telecasts in the United States and Canada, including those on ESPN as well as games in local markets. The spots, which will receive the equivalent of at least $2 million of national air time, will carry the theme "Share the glory."
"One of the classic packaged-goods research techniques is to study why people enter and exit your franchise," Mr. Ryan said, using jargon that might dismay someone who knows that the Rangers' last Stanley Cup came in 1940, but typifies the new marketing-oriented approach that top N.H.L. executives believe they must pursue.
"And what we saw," he added, "is that one of the early-on ways for people to enter our franchise is sharing -- friends share tickets, a husband brings his wife or daughter."
Intriguingly, the spots eschew the elements expected in promoting hockey, like a rapid-fire pace, a breathless, staccato-voiced narrator, and endless brawls on ice. Instead, they assume a gauzy, feel-good tone reminiscent of the movie "Chariots of Fire"; game footage is rerun in slow motion, and the announcer works at a classical-music radio station in Boston.
"There's heritage and sweat, talent and skill, all the things we need to highlight," said Richard B. Emerson, executive vice president and general manager of division operations at Arnold Fortuna, who joined Mr. Ryan for the interview.
"The best way to present that," he added, "is in a way that elevates the brand N.H.L."
Mr. Ryan said that Arnold Fortuna, which was awarded the assignment in September, was recommended by its "creativity and street smarts."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an effort to gain fan and sponsor dollars in the glutted sports market, the National Hockey League is firing off an advertising and promotional campaign. Wayne Gretzky, left, is seen in a new commercial. (Arnold Fortuna Lawner & Cabot)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (80%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL) BB LIQUIDATING INC (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (80%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (50%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); DALLAS STARS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (NHL) NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); DALLAS STARS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; ADVERTISING SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); CABLE TELEVISION (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); EXTREME SPORTS (72%); PUBLISHING (63%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



169 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Bill Would Hold Fed More Accountable Politically

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Challenging the autonomy of the Federal Reserve banking system, the chairman of the House Banking Committee introduced legislation today that would hold the central bank more accountable politically for crucial decisions on monetary policy.
Under the proposal, presidents of the Fed's regional banks would be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate, rather than being selected largely by bankers from within their own ranks, as they are now. Regional bank heads are among the members of the Fed's Open Market Committee, which makes the Fed's monetary decisions. 
 Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who heads the Banking Committee, said he did not seek to "politicize" the Fed, which by controlling interest rates wields tremendous economic power.
 
More Representative Fed?
 Instead, he said, his aim was to make the Fed more representative of the population. As things stand, he said, "women and minorities have little or no say in the conduct of our nation's monetary policy and in bank regulation." He added, "We simply must change the method of selecting Federal Reserve Bank presidents so that the old-boy network gives way to a more diverse representation."
Five of the 11 regional bank presidents join the seven politically appointed governors of the central bank on the Open Market Committee.
Mr. Gonzalez has long criticized what he calls the "inbred" process of naming regional bank presidents, who at present are elected by a nine-member board of directors at each bank. These directors include three members appointed by the board of governors and six elected by member banks in each district. The legislation would add three more directors appointed by the board of governors, requiring that these directors not be drawn from the banking industry.
His legislation, which would make other changes, including providing videotapes of the meetings where the Open Market Committee sets monetary policy, is sure to be opposed by the Federal Reserve Board.
 
Administration View Not Clear
 It is not clear how the Clinton Administration would view the legislation. Mr. Gonzalez, having led the criticism of the Bush Administration's prewar policies toward Iraq, has become better known.
"With all this Congressional pressure building for reform of the Federal Reserve System, the central bank will face its toughest challenge in years," said Karen D. Shaw, a banking analyst, in a report published today by her company, the Institute for Strategy Development.
"Crucial to maintaining its current structure will be support from the new Administration," she said.
The legislation is also likely to be seen as increasing pressure on the Fed to stimulate the economy by easing its monetary policy.
Congressional Democrats have recently questioned whether the Federal Reserve has been restricting growth in the money supply, and whether such a policy might choke off the fledgling economic recovery.
With Mr. Clinton considering stimulating the economy by increased spending and tax incentives, a crucial question is whether the Fed will counter with higher interest rates to fight inflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; CREDIT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BOARD CHANGES (89%); BANKING LAW (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); TAX LAW (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; GONZALEZ, HENRY B (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



170 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Bank Rates Down a Bit In New York

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
The average yields offered on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit for the week beginning today are slightly lower in the New York market but about the same in other areas compared with the previous week, according to latest survey by The Bank Rate Monitor.
Deposit rates are expected to remain close to current levels through at least the first half of the year. Mortgage rates, which are closely tied to long-term Treasury issues, are still falling. The 30-year fixed rate is at the lowest level since October. 
 Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Monitor, said interest rates were not shifting because some people in the market were buying the notion that the Clinton Administration would contain inflation, refrain from pouring money into programs and work to reduce the deficit.
At the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills on Monday, average discount rates were down modestly. The auction is widely regarded as a signal of changes in deposit rates by banks.
The average rate at auction was down 7 basis basis points on a three-month Treasury bill, to 3.15 percent, and down 10 basis points for a six-month bill, to 3.28 percent. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
In the New York area, the average money market account is down about a basis point, with the slide now a month old. The average rate for a three-month certificate is down to 2.82 percent, from 2.85 percent a week ago. Meanwhile, the average yield on a six-month certificate is less than 3 percent, to 2.99 percent from 3.01 percent the previous week.
For the most part, commercial banks are pushing rates down more sharply than the savings banks. The bank with the sharpest changes in C.D. yields from the previous week is the Republic National Bank, which is lowering the yield on its three-month certificate 24 basis points, to 2.89 percent, and 25 basis points on its six-month C.D., to 3.05 percent. Citibank, meanwhile, is dropping the yield on its bank money market account by 15 basis points, to 2.10 percent.
Outside the New York market, yields at 20 large banks are steady as they have been for the last month, with the average yield on a money market account unchanged at 2.68 percent and the average six-month certificate unchanged at 3.03 percent.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on moneymarket accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 1993. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yield are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.
 
New York Area

	Money	3-mo.	6-mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	Banco Popular	2.89	2.89	3.25	Bank of N.Y.	2.58	2.70	2.79	Bank of Tokyo Trust	2.33	2.44	2.57	Chase Manhattan	2.43	2.85	2.90	Chemical	2.33	2.66	2.70	Citibank	2.10	2.50	2.65	Conn. Nat'l Bank	2.58	2.84	2.99	EAB	2.58	2.89	2.89	First Fidelity (N.J.)	2.85	2.95	3.10	Fleet Bank (Conn)	2.55	2.83	2.99	Key Bank of N.Y.	2.53	2.48	2.84	Marine Midland	2.53	2.69	2.79	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	2.95	2.95	3.10	Nat'l Westminster	2.63	2.58	2.63	Republic Nat'l	2.74	2.89	3.05	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	Anchor Savings	2.75	2.89	3.05	Apple Bank Savings	2.58	2.48	2.69	Astoria Fed Savings	2.94	2.94	2.99	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	3.30	3.15	3.40	Crossland Savings	2.75	2.85	3.05	Dime Savings Bank	2.90	2.90	3.10	Emigrant Savings	2.90	2.90	3.05	First Fed (Rochester)	3.05	2.95	3.05	First Nationwide	2.60	2.70	2.80	Greater NY Savings	2.75	2.80	3.00	Green Point Savings	3.05	N.O.	3.25	Home Savings Amer	2.78	2.84	3.05	Hudson City SB (N.J.)	3.05	3.50	3.60	People's Bank (Conn.)	2.78	2.84	3.05	River Bank America	3.05	3.00	3.25	
 
Major Banks Outside N.Y.

	Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.		Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	2.68	0.00	3.10	0.00	Bank of Boston	2.84	0.00	3.04	0.00	Citibank, S.D.	3.02	0.00	3.78	0.00	Comerica (Detroit)	2.78	0.00	2.89	0.00	Fidelity Bank (Philadelphia)	2.75	0.00	3.00	0.00	First Bank (Minnesota)	2.38	0.00	2.80	0.00	First Interstate (L.A.)	2.65	0.00	2.63	0.00	First National (Chicago)	2.63	0.00	3.05	0.00	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	2.70	0.00	3.00	0.00	Fleet Bank (Boston)	2.78	0.00	3.05	0.00	Maryland Natl	2.85	0.00	3.25	0.00	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	2.78	0.00	3.05	0.00	Meridian Bank (Reading Pa)	2.44	-0.05	3.05	0.00	National Bank (Detroit)	2.83	0.00	2.95	0.00	NationsBank (Tampa)	2.35	0.00	3.20	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	2.75	0.00	3.00	0.00	Shawmut Bank (Boston)	2.74	0.00	3.00	0.00	Texas Commerce (Houston)	2.27	0.00	2.89	0.00	Union Bank (S.F.)	2.63	0.00	2.74	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	2.70	0.00	3.10	0.00	
 
N.A. Rate not available
N.O. Not offered
Source: Bank Rate Monitor N. Palm Beach 33408
Chart: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (53%); HSB (PAR) (53%); HBC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (53%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



171 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Review/Theater;
A Performance Montage of East-West Troubles

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW

 BODY:
On a sweeping pictorial canvas, "Deshima" spans four centuries of troubled East-West relations, moving from the first arrival of Dutch trading ships in Japan to the purchase by the Japanese of van Gogh's "Sunflowers" for $39.9 million. From the perspective of Ping Chong's far reaching performance piece, Japan found a symbolic certification for its world economic supremacy through the acquisition of masterpieces of Western art. In other words, it has become the land of the rising "Sunflowers."
In previous works like "Kind Ness" and "Nosferatu," Mr. Chong has dealt incisively with American and European myths and traditions, and in others he has soared into the futuristic. Rarely has he approached subjects of an Asian nature, a fact for which he fully compensates in "Deshima" (at La Mama Annex). This is an ambitious attempt to probe ancestral roots as well as ancestral trade routes and to dramatize the reverberations between disparate cultures. He studies economic as well as political imperialism. As Mr. Chong sees it, Japan staked an early claim to most-favored-nation status in Asia. 
 Balancing the portrait, he illustrates the plight of Japanese-Americans during World War II with a poignant monologue about a family about to be uprooted and placed in an internment camp. Faced with an insultingly low offer for a treasured Oriental dinner set, the mother of the family smashes the china plate by plate, to the horror of an opportunistic antiques dealer. That's valuable china, he insists, but apparently it is not valuable enough to be bought for a fair price.
In characteristic fashion, the author creates a composite portrait that is scenic, poetic and eclectically choreographic. With a painterly eye for revealing detail, he constructs a nonsequential performance montage with layer upon layer of facts, images and inferences. Re-evoking a reference from "Maraya," an earlier journey into archeology, he has actors slide a pyramid on stage bearing the words tempus fugit, a truism in the case of Mr. Chong. He is one of the quickest moving of conceptual directors, keeping audiences on constant alert.
With its visual density, the work is related to that of Robert Wilson and of Meredith Monk, a past collaborator with Mr. Chong. But it has the author's signature as a documentarian with a puckish sense of humor. He places a high value on the lessons of history, retrieving and refining information so it achieves artistic weight.
In the play, he expresses an internationalist view as forays are made between countries "in the name of God and of profit," a phrase that is eventually abbreviated to "in the name of profit." The attitude that the West represents civilization and everything else is barbaric is especially subject to question during the time of Columbus's quincentenary. To the Japanese of the 17th century, the Dutch were the barbarians, and they were quarantined on the island of Deshima. The idea of quarantine, of one culture isolating another, is a recurrent theme.
Under Mr. Chong's precise direction, the actors move freely among the myriad characters, with Michael Matthews unifying the production as the narrator. Mr. Matthews also stands in for van Gogh, who is quoted as having said that Arles would be the Japan of the future. What he could not know was that his Arles would be in the Japan of the future. As an artist ravaged by his artistic isolation and fated to be exploited by others, van Gogh becomes the emblematic go-between in Mr. Chong's venturesome cross-cultural exploration.
 
Deshima
 
Conceived and directed by Ping Chong, in collaboration with Michael Matthews; set by Watuko Euno and Mr. Chong; lighting by Thomas Hase; costumes by Carol Ann Pelletier; projections by Jan Hartley and Mr. Chong; sound by Robert Bosch and Brian Hallas; Javanese dance choreographed by Deena Burton; dance captain, Ching Gonzalez; voice-over by Margot Hoyt; Virlana Tkacz, production manager; Bruce Allardice, managing director. Presented by La Mama E.T.C. and Ping Chong and Company. At 74A East Fourth Street, East Village.
 
WITH: Deena Burton, Barbara Chan, Ching Gonzalez, Brian Liem, Larry Malvern, Michael Matthews, Emerald Trinket Monsod, Dawn Saito and Perry Yung.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from Ping Chong's "Deshima," which spans four centuries of troubled East-West relations. (Bob Van Dantzig/"Deshima")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DESHIMA (PLAY)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); FAMILY (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%); WORLD WAR II (51%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%); 

PERSON: GUSSOW, MEL; CHONG, PING; MATTHEWS, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



172 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Food Notes

BYLINE: By Florence Fabricant

 BODY:

Feed a Cold
A ticket to the Caribbean is one way to help dispel a cold. Empire Kosher Poultry is offering a more economical and traditional remedy. 
 Anyone who sends in the label from any cold medicine will receive a recipe for chicken soup and a coupon worth 75 cents toward the purchase of an Empire kosher chicken. The offer is good through the end of January. Labels should be sent to Bubby, Empire Kosher Poultry, Box 165, Mifflintown, Pa. 17059.
Chicken soup is one culture's nostrum. Saturday classes at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden will examine some others. On Jan. 23 from 1 P.M. to 4 P.M., for example, the topic will be herbs for making teas and other cold remedies. The fee is $32 for members, $37 for nonmembers.
On Feb. 27 from 10:30 A.M. to 2:30 P.M., the subject will be South American and Caribbean cures (without the travel), based on the herbs and plants sold in botanicas in East Harlem and elsewhere in the city ($26 for members, $31 for nonmembers).
The healing plants of the American Indians will be explained on March 6 from 12:30 P.M. to 4:30 P.M. ($39 for members, $45 for nonmembers). For more information: (718) 941-4044.
 
In Toques and on Skis
 On Sunday, beginning at 10 A.M. at Windham Mountain in the Catskills, chefs in toques and white jackets will compete in the annual Chefs Ski Race. The event, in which several hundred chefs from New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Maryland are competing, is the mid-Atlantic regional for a race that began at Hunter Mountain in the Catskills 17 years ago and has now become an international competition.
Starting at 3 P.M. there will be a cocktail party with a cash bar for those who attended the race or participated in it. Some seats for the awards banquet, held from 4 P.M. to 6 P.M., are available to the public at $25 a ticket. Reservations: (800) 858-7669. The race is sponsored by the Grand Marnier Foundation, and proceeds will be donated to City Harvest, a nonprofit organization that feeds the homeless in New York City.
 
The Chef as Star
 The stars have Michael Ovitz; now chefs have Shep Gordon. Mr. Gordon is the president of Alive Enterprises in Beverly Hills, Calif., a company that manages rock stars, among others. It has now added a division called Alive Culinary Resources to manage and promote chefs.
Among the clients that have already been signed are Wolfgang Puck, the owner of Spago, Granita and Chinois on Main in the Los Angeles area; Pino Luongo, the owner of Le Madri and Coco Pazzo in Manhattan, and Roger Verge, the owner of the Michelin three-star Moulin de Mougins in the south of France.
 
A New Market
 Moursy's Market, 1439 First Avenue (75th Street), has recycled the space once occupied by R. Bildner & Sons, a chain of fancy supermarkets based in Boston. The new market, with an ambitious selection of meat, produce, prepared foods, cheeses, cured meats and cookware, takes a decidedly Italian point of view.
On the right side near the entrance is a wall of pasta, olive oil, tomato sauce and canned tomatoes. Worth noting are the 35-ounce cans of Fara San Martino imported San Marzano plum tomatoes, $2.89 each.
Last week, the produce was in good condition, at typical Upper East Side prices, and the bakery department had good breads and Italian pastries, some of them garishly decorated.
Moursy's has an enormous array of prepared foods, ranging from mundane tuna salad to excellent eggplant salad with penne, good hot or cold ($5.98 a pound); dense but tasty meatballs ($5.50 a pound), and colorful, well-seasoned Stromboli bread stuffed with either meat and peppers or vegetables ($6 a pound). Even the excellent potato knishes ($2 each) are given an Italian touch with a topping of pine nuts.
Most of the cheeses are sold already cut and wrapped in plastic, not the best treatment, and the clerks are reluctant to provide slivers for tasting. The aged grana padana, similar to Parmesan, was beginning to turn hard and waxy, something that does not happen when the cheese is cut to order from a large wheel. This cheese was $11.98 a pound, compared with $9.98 a pound for the rather young Parmigiano-Reggiano, usually the more expensive cheese.
Cured meats were a varied lot, with salamis in better shape than the hams, some of which were dry.
The cookware shop on the lower level carries an array of pots and utensils, good for filling in for emergencies, especially since Moursy's is open late. Hours are 7 A.M. to 10:30 P.M. Monday through Saturday and 7 A.M. to 10 P.M. Sunday. Free delivery from 68th Street to 82d Street between East End and Third avenues. Telephone: (212) 288-7565.
 
Restaurants by Phone
 CALLING 777-FILM provides information about movies. Now, there's (212) 777-FOOD -- (212) 777-3663 -- to help with dining out. This new restaurant directory for Manhattan is called Food Phone, and it provides an extensive menu of options for the cost of a local call.
The type of cuisine, neighborhood and price range can be selected by pressing the appropriate numbers on a push-button phone. Once a restaurant is chosen, a brief and enthusiastic description follows.
Food Phone was created by three friends who met at Brooklyn Law School. Three thousand restaurants are now listed, but each will soon be asked to pay $35 a month to continue its listing.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ML (PAR) (50%); MIH (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (50%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); MARYLAND, USA (54%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CIE GENERALE DES ETABLISSEMENTS MICHELIN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%); FRANCE (50%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); MARYLAND, USA (54%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD COMMON COLD (90%); POULTRY (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); SKIING (86%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); RETAIL COUPONS (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (70%); CHARITIES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE WOLFGANG PUCK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



173 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Strategies for Treating the Nation's Drug Scourge

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:

Reckoning
Drugs, the Cities and the American Future
By Elliott Currie
405 pages. Hill & Wang. $25.
 
The Making of a Drug-Free America
 Programs That Work
 By Mathea Falco
 255 pages. Times Books. $22. 
 Drug abuse is a major domestic problem that the Clinton Administration will inherit. It cannot be separated from the growing cost of health care and any future national health programs. Obviously, answers cannot be found in "lock 'em up and throw away the key" oversimplifications, or in slogans like "Just Say No." In recent years, Nancy Reagan urged that drug abusers be considered accomplices to murder; Daryl F. Gates, the former Los Angeles police chief, proposed that illegal drug users be shot, and William Bennett, who briefly served as the director of drug control policy in the Bush Administration, said that anyone who sold drugs should have his head cut off.
Two thoughtful new books grapple with the drug problem in more mature ways. Both take wider and deeper looks at the causes of drug abuse, suggesting that the country's sundered economic, educational and social fabric needs attention and repairs.
 In "Reckoning," Elliott Currie, the author of "Dope and Trouble: Portraits of Delinquent Youth," who has taught sociology and criminology at Yale and the University of California at Berkeley, emphasizes the need for job training and jobs. In "The Making of a Drug-Free America," Mathea Falco, an Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics Matters from 1977 to 1981 and a visiting fellow at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, says that solutions can be found in improved education and treatment programs.
Ms. Falco's recommendations for freeing Americans from the drug scourge place greater emphasis on private and community efforts, especially through education. She holds that school prevention programs can reduce the likelihood of children's using drugs; that neighborhoods and local police officers, working together, can drive dealers off the streets; that businesses can create programs to reduce drug use among employees. In her opinion, business and civic leaders can forge antidrug coalitions to transform communities.
Legalization of drugs isn't the answer, Ms. Falco maintains, because legalizing drugs for adults while prohibiting their use by minors would actually stimulate drug use among young people, since drugs would become new symbols of adult status.
"The two most powerful reasons for recent declines in marijuana and cocaine use among educated, affluent Americans are health concerns and increasingly negative social attitudes about drugs," she writes. "Holding on to these gains and extending them into higher-risk groups will require intensive prevention, education and treatment campaigns. The drug laws play a critically important role in this effort by conveying social values and defining the limits of permissible behavior. Legalization would signal a fundamental change in American attitudes, implying tolerance rather than disapproval of drug use."
One of the most valuable sections of "The Making of a Drug-Free America" is a listing of private and public organizations all over the country that are fighting drug abuse. Among those in New York City are the Vera Institute of Justice, the Phoenix House Foundation and the New York State division of substance abuse services.
Mr. Currie writes: "To mount a comprehensive attack on the roots of drug abuse, we must be tough-minded enough to acknowledge the need for fundamental change and pragmatic enough to plan for the long term. We must acknowledge that the drug crisis reflects a deeper crisis of culture and spirit, of family and community, as well as of material well-being."
At times, Mr. Currie's high-minded solutions sound like Presidential campaign promises in 1992 and 1932, including a return to some New Deal programs. He sees a fundamental need to reconstruct community life in the United States. His proposals include raising the quality and skill levels of jobs in private industry. He wants to link inner-city students with good jobs that will take them off the drug-infested streets. He thinks that raising minimum wages would help working teen-agers and working women to rebuild family life.
Mr. Currie looks back to the Depression years, when unemployment was high and one-third of the nation was ill fed, ill clothed and ill housed, and finds a model program in the National Youth Administration. "Until its funding was cut off shortly before World War II," he writes, "the N.Y.A. housed, fed, schooled and employed hundreds of thousands of young people -- most of whom would now be considered at risk for drug abuse and delinquency, many of whom were homeless, illiterate or badly nourished."
And how are such vast Federal social programs to be financed? Mr. Currie suggests a better tax system that would place the burden on the wealthy, preventive public health care that would lead to greater savings and "seizing the peace dividend" so that money going to the military would now be shifted to domestic programs.
After reading the well-intentioned generalities in "Reckoning," this thought comes to mind: Drug abuse will have to stand in line with other domestic needs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elliott Currie (Suzannah Currie/Hill & Wang); Mathea Falco (Benjamin Falco Tarnoff/Times Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RECKONING: DRUGS, THE CITIES AND THE AMERICAN FUTURE (BOOK); MAKING OF A DRUG-FREE AMERICA, THE: PROGRAMS THAT WORK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIMES BOOKS (74%); HILL & WANG (73%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); DRUG POLICY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CANNABIS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); CRIME PREVENTION (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); COCAINE (73%); WRITERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CHILDREN (68%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); 

PERSON: CURRIE, ELLIOTT; FALCO, MATHEA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



174 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
Messier, Neilson Continue Their Feud

BYLINE: By JENNIFER FREY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RYE, N.Y., Jan. 5

 BODY:
Unemployed and unhappy, Roger Neilson went to breakfast this morning and added more weight to his attack on Mark Messier.
Clearly pleased by the recent turn of events, Messier went to practice and called a players-only meeting to, among other things, refute Neilson's accusations about his commitment to the Rangers' program. 
 Later, in what is sure to add insult to Neilson's injury, Messier heaped praise on Ron Smith, only one day after Smith was named to succeed Neilson in the Rangers' head-coaching job.
The other players, meanwhile, blamed themselves for the team's problems, staunchly defended Messier, and passed along apologies to Neilson for not playing up to par most of this season.
 
A Clean Slate
 And Smith? He valiantly tried to pretend that the baggage attached to this year's edition of the Rangers didn't come with his new job.
"Unless you're face to face with the problem, you're far better off not making assumptions," Smith said, when asked how he would contend with the fallout from the Neilson-Messier rift. "I couldn't allow myself to be influenced by what I know. I can pretty much predict that it's going to be a solid relationship with the players for the second half."
While Smith ran the ice at practice for the first time this morning, Neilson had brunch with a group of local reporters only a few miles away. Exhausted after a sleepless night, Neilson appeared sadly resigned to his fate, rather than bitter or angry. But, when pressed, he went as far as to question Messier's near-sacred relationship with his teammates along with Messier's commitment to the team.
 
Lack of Leadership
 Neilson, who responded to Monday's dismissal by personally accusing Messier of failing to adequately perform his captain's duties, said today that several players had made him aware that there was a big problem inside the Rangers' locker room more than six weeks ago, and that some had indicated the source of that problem was a perceived drop in leadership from Messier.
"There was no question that it came out that Mess wasn't leading the way he was before and he was such a fabulous leader before in everybody's eyes that it bothered guys," Neilson said. "I guess it bothered everybody in different ways."
After today's practice, Messier argued that he has been the same this season as his entire career. And several of his teammates, although conceding that there has been a serious lack of team cohesiveness, refused to place the blame on Messier.
 
'Everybody Changed'
 "When you have 25 guys that are frustrated, that's obviously going to have an effect on the team," said forward Doug Weight. "But I don't think that can be put on Mark's shoulders or Roger's shoulders. As the team went down, everybody changed. Maybe Mark quieted up a little bit, but it's unfair, really, to just say Mark changed.
"Let's face it, this whole team changed. It's unfair to put Mark on the spot because he's the captain and he's the one with all the weight on his shoulders. We weren't doing our jobs."
Messier said: "I felt at the time that it might have been best to sit back and analyze what was going on, to just watch the situation. I'm only who I am. That's who I have been my entire career. I think everybody has to make a commitment, I've said that since I've been here."
 
Team Unity Stressed
 Commitment and team unity seemed to be the big themes of the players-only meeting, along with an instructional "what it takes to win the Stanley Cup" pep talk by Kevin Lowe, who has won the cup five times. The new coach was not invited and did not seem in the least concerned, congenially discussing all the "enthusiasm and energy" he saw during practice.
When asked to discuss Smith's potential impact on the program, Messier sounded like an endorsement video, calling Smith's inital statements "music to my ears" and describing the new coach as, among other things, "intelligent" and "articulate" and "able to speak with authority."
Messier tried to focus on what he called the "good times to come" for the Rangers' program. He praised Smith's style, "He likes lots of hustle, a lot of puck pursuit, and I feel that's the way you have to play." And he raved about the previous night's 3-3 tie with the Devils, "I had a good feeling all night and I haven't felt that for a month or so."
Neilson went back to packing boxes for his return home to Peterboro, Ontario. He was supposed to fly out today, but late Monday night, he was forced to take his dog Mike to a Manhattan animal hospital.
"I think it was about three in the morning when I was driving back from Manhattan," Neilson said. "I got lost and somehow ended up on the West Side Highway. I guess it was just one of those nights."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RANGERS NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE WINTER SPORTS (90%); 

PERSON: NEILSON, ROGER; MESSIER, MARK; FREY, JENNIFER MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



175 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Yeltsin on Line One

 BODY:
Boris Yeltsin telephoned on Monday to invite Bill Clinton to an early summit meeting. Mr. Clinton took the call but put the request on hold. He'd love to meet, he said, but not until he presented his domestic agenda and persuaded Congress to get cracking on urgent business at home.
It was the right response. Mr. Clinton is well aware that the call conveyed more than a polite invitation. It signaled Russia's continuing need for American help and reassurance as it lurches toward democracy. It was a reminder, too, that Mr. Clinton cannot long ignore pressing matters of foreign policy. 
 Even so, he has no reason to allow foreign policy to drive urgent domestic needs into the background. First things first, he says, not only to Mr. Yeltsin but to anyone who insists that he has to attend to foreign policy first.
He doesn't. With the end of the cold war, the President of the United States need not react to every crisis in every corner of the world. He can set his own pace by defining a more discriminating foreign policy for the post-cold-war world. He can do that by building on what he has said and done as a candidate and as President-elect.
Mr. Clinton clearly has no wish to slight Mr. Yeltsin or his problems. During the campaign, he urged Mr. Bush to assist Russia's attempts to move to freer politics and markets. Nor is he oblivious to the connection between Russia's domestic reform and America's: "A small amount spent stabilizing the emerging democracies in the former Soviet empire today," he declared, "will reduce by much more the money we may have to commit to our defense in the future."
He obviously understands Russia's problems and knows that they won't wait forever. In time he must also attend to the slaughter in Bosnia, the languishing Middle East peace process and the need to curb arms proliferation, beginning with Ukraine and the other nuclear republics of the former Soviet Union.
Indeed, there's enough on his plate, at home and abroad, to justify the occasional diplomatic snub. He properly spurned Prime Minister John Major of Britain, whose Government meddled in the Presidential campaign. Mr. Major and other foreign leaders who wanted early meetings had to settle for telephone calls.
The exception is President Salinas of Mexico, whom Mr. Clinton will meet before his inauguration. The focus of their discussion, a pending treaty that would set up a North American Free Trade Area, underscores the importance Mr. Clinton attaches to expanding trade on his own terms.
His major foreign policy task, however, is not to meet with this leader or that but to shape a post-cold-war foreign policy that will allow him to keep the focus on domestic policy. That means getting ahead of future crises by carefully defining his criteria for U.S. economic and military involvement abroad. Otherwise his agenda will be driven by a succession of foreign policy crises, and desperately needed domestic projects will once again be put off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); COLD WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); POLITICS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



176 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: United Way Needs a Period of Scrutiny

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "United Way: Leaner and Needier" (editorial, Dec. 17): United Way's problems owe less to the recession and past scandal at the fund-raising organization than to its lack of definition and canvassing methods. 
 The $3 billion in annual contributions that the organization receives comes nowhere near financing its thousands of social service and health care agencies. Public money makes its survival possible.
But such is the state of our information that no one knows the overall mixture of private and public funds needed to operate chapter networks. Nor has anyone tested the assumption that some agencies might be better off if entirely financed with either public or private funds.
What we do know is that United Way's canvassing methods are as outdated as its image, in your words, "as an arm of the Establishment." For at least a quarter-century, United Way has depended mainly on corporate contributions and giving by employees -- even as companies, and with them hundreds of thousands of jobs, have left the country.
Stockholders in corporations frequently ask (but infrequently receive answers to) the question, Why should executives have authority to make corporate gifts without stockholder approval? Meanwhile, employees seldom refuse when asked for a pledge by a superior who holds their job at his or her pleasure. Resentment among stockholders and employees boils over in a hard economic time.
United Way will become more useful after its operations are analyzed and openly debated by board members, executives, volunteers, fund raisers and other professionals, including sociologists and social psychologists. That is, change can occur only when United Way abandons a closed-shop mentality.
The model can be the in-depth discussions that President-elect Clinton activated to analyze economic problems. And if United Way devotes enough thought and effort to the task of change, it should avoid a future spectacle of a major national institution humiliated by inept and corrupt management.
 
MILTON GOLDIN
Tarrytown, N.Y., Dec. 18, 1992
 
The writer heads a fund-raising consulting organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); SCANDALS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDIN, MILTON BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



177 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Before We Let World Bank Squander More

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While we concur with "The World's Poor Need Bill Clinton" (editorial, Dec. 19), that the world's poorest countries need assistance, and that President-elect Clinton should lead the effort, we do not think that the World Bank's International Development Association is the best mechanism for providing this aid. In "World Bank War on Pollution Faces Ever Sharper Criticism," (news article, Nov. 12), you note growing criticism of the World Bank's environmental and human rights record. 
 Before agreeing to provide $18 billion more to the bank's International Development Association, taxpayers in the United States and other donor countries should be aware that these problems are systemic and that without major reforms the money will continue to be wasted on environmental and social disasters.
Three years ago when the World Bank asked donor countries for the last multibillion-dollar replenishment of these funds, it agreed with its donors to support environmentally sound projects, alleviate poverty, insure greater public access to information and to promote public participation. The bank's promises proved worthless; it continues to finance schemes that are documented financial, environmental and social failures, and to withhold most information on its activities.
Last summer an internal review of the bank's $140 billion loan portfolio (led by Willi Wappenhans, World Bank vice president) showed that, according to the bank's own criteria, 37.5 percent of recently evaluated projects are failures, up from 15 percent in 1981.
The most alarming aspect is economic: according to the Wappenhans report, nearly four-fifths of the financial conditions in World Bank loans -- 78 percent -- are not complied with. The bank's economic appraisal is viewed by many staff, according to the same report, as a "marketing device for securing loan approval," and confidential surveys of bank professionals show that "only 17 percent of staff interviewed felt that analytical work done during project preparation was compatible with the achievement of project quality."
World Bank water projects, such as the infamous Narmada dam in India cited in your Nov. 12 article, are among the worst offenders. According to the Wappenhans report, 42 percent of continuing water supply and agriculture projects are encountering serious implementation problems.
But the bank is preparing to finance still more of these losers on a gargantuan scale. Witness the number of dam and water projects in the pipeline: the Bangladesh flood action plan, the outer islands power project in Indonesia, the Lesotho Highlands water projects in South Africa and possibly the titanic Three Gorges Dam in China.
There is little concrete evidence in the bank's practice and priorities that critical habitats or the rights of poor and tribal people will be better protected in future projects. Most of these dam projects will create hundreds of thousands of new poor and homeless by forcibly displacing people from their lands. Millions of people have been left worse off economically after World Bank-financed projects than they were before.
To dump $18 billion more into the lap of such an institution, without total reform and housecleaning from top to bottom, is financial folly.
The world's poor do need Bill Clinton to promote their interests and those of United States taxpayers by refusing World Bank demands for more funds without serious structural reforms. Furthermore, we hope that the new Administration will appoint an environmentally and socially aware representative to the World Bank's board of executive directors, who will make institutional reform, project quality and financial accountability top priorities, rather than increased lending.
 
DEBORAH MOORE
BRUCE RICH, LORI UDALL
Washington, Dec. 23, 1992
 
The writers are, respectively, staff scientist, director and staff lawyer in the Environmental Defense Fund's international program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (95%); 

COUNTRY: LESOTHO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSN (IDA) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSN (IDA) INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LESOTHO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (85%); FLOOD CONTROL (85%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (60%); 

PERSON: MOORE, DEBORAH; RICH, BRUCE; UDALL, LORI; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



178 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Public & Private;
The Lapel Pin Thing

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

 BODY:
To: President-elect Clinton
Re: the Inaugural
Dear Bill, 
 That sounds too informal, doesn't it? After all, I'm not an F.O.B. (Friend of Bill) and for a long time I wasn't even an S.O.B. (Supporter of Bill). But I am related by marriage to a C.O.B. (Contributor of Bill) and so I have come into possession of this lovely inaugural mailing.
First off, thanks for the beautiful big engraved invitation. When we opened it we thought we were being invited to the wedding of the daughter of the Sultan of Bahrain. Then we read it over and concluded that we were being invited to the inauguration of someone named William Jefferson Clinton. Whew! No wonder you settled on that simple but elegant all-occasion nickname.
However, since I am related by marriage to a lawyer, who knows how to read fine print, I soon learned that this inaugural invitation only served to "welcome our participation in any of the public events." We had to sit the kids down and explain that what that really meant was that we could take our sleeping bags down to Pennsylvania Avenue and stake out a position on the parade route, and that while we would be willing to do that for Stones tickets in July, we would not be doing it for Bill in January.
The kids were not disappointed, however, because with the engraved invitation was an invitation to buy souvenirs. Someone on your inaugural team must have known how deep the lust for embossed hats and commemorative key chains runs in the American spirit because the flier prominently features a sterling silver saxophone pin, "shown actual size."
Now, I bring all this up, Bill, because this sort of thing -- let's call it the saxophone lapel pin thing -- is going to be a problem for you. It is a fine line between being Presidential and purveying novelty items, between folksiness and dignity, between promising and delivering. And it is time to start drawing that line, before you invite a Boy Scout troop in for Sloppy Joes in a fit of bonhomie and then discover you're already scheduled for lunch with John Major.
Our faux invitation, for instance, brought to mind that testy "bean counters" criticism of women's groups just before the holidays. The problem was that you raised expectations with those folks. When you talked about an administration that looked like America, they thought of the America in which half of us are female. They did not think of the America in which women get a few visible appointments and then everyone congratulates himself on filling some minority quota even though we actually happen to be the majority.
(This view was represented by the editorial cartoonist who showed a bunch of animals saying, "We believe President-elect Clinton's cabinet appointments do not reflect America's diversity -- they're all humans." In other words, it's only a small step from pushy women to pushy dogs and horses.)
This same syndrome may attach to your economic conference. Some number crunchers complained that all those biz whizzes sitting around in a circle was nothing but public relations. Oh, pooh. Public relations is just what the economy needs right now. You got a lot of expectations going with all that talk; Toys "R" Us did a booming Christmas business on Super Nintendo and Puppy Surprise. Now you have about 90 days before anyone says, "All he's done about the economy is hold that stupid conference."
It's not an easy road you'll walk two weeks from now. You're going to have to balance hope and reality, insiders and outsiders, the long haul and the quick fix. And you'll have to try to be approachable without being ridiculous. On your shoulders lies heavy the burden of answering a question never before asked in this nation: Can a man wail on "Arsenio" and lead the free world?
But one cautionary note to begin with: It may be that on that triumphant trip from the Capitol to the White House, the one Jimmy Carter walked hand-in-hand with Rosalynn to show what a regular guy he was, you'll be tempted to stop off for a Quarter Pounder with cheese, a gabfest with a table of nurse's aides and a magnanimous offer of jobs -- for everyone! On the house! It may feel right. It may feel new generation. But when that spirit moves you, Bill, keep moving.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INAUGURATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); POLITICS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993



179 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Finds Nuclear Arms Bring a Measure of Respect

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Among disarmament negotiators, nuclear missiles are measured by their ability to destroy. In Ukraine, they are increasingly being measured in terms of dollars and respect, and the perception may well hold the key to the success or failure of the strategic arms treaty signed this week in Moscow.
"Our deputies don't care where these things are aimed," said Serhiy Holovaty, a leading voice in the Ukrainian Parliament's commission for foreign affairs. "They know that they must get something for them." 
 Others might not put it quite that bluntly. But when the question of nuclear missiles arises -- whether with the urbane President, Leonid M. Kravchuk, or the harshest of nationalists -- that is roughly the bottom line.
 
Ratification of Treaty
 The issue will become critical in the next weeks when the Ukrainian Parliament is scheduled to take up the question of ratifying the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start I, which calls on Ukraine to dismantle all 176 missile launchers and silos on its territory. Unless Start I comes into effect, Start II is a dead letter.
[The head of a Ukrainian delegation visiting Washington said his Government was seeking security guarantees from the United States before getting rid of its nuclear weapons, The Associated Press reported.
["We hope these guarantees will be in the form of declarations at the highest political levels," Deputy Foreign Minister Boris Tarasiuk said.]
In an interview, Mr. Kravchuk reiterated his certainty that the treaty would be ratified -- but only if the deputies received international guarantees of Ukraine's security and satisfactory compensation. He reportedly set out this position in a letter to President Bush on Tuesday.
But exactly what that means, and whether Moscow or the West are prepared to meet Ukraine's conditions, is likely to make for a tense debate, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen.
At the heart of the question, less tangible but perhaps even more important than issues of money or security, is a growing frustration among Ukrainian leaders at being taken for granted, at being treated as an appendage of Russia.
In interviews with Mr. Kravchuk and several key players in the debate, there was an invariable complaint that Ukraine was not being taken seriously in Russia or the West, and the implication that without its inherited nuclear might, Ukraine might lose its last claim to attention.
"They are afraid of being written off," said a Western diplomat who has dealt closely with the issue. "The attitude they sense from Russia and Washington is, "Give us your missiles and go to hell."
The sense that the world had not properly appreciated Ukraine as an independent state cropped up like a refrain in the interviews, reflected in constant reminders that this was a nation of 52 million, with a territory the size of France, with the third-largest nuclear force in the world.
"I have a right to defend the interests of my people," Mr. Kravchuk argued in the interview. "We should not be accused of defending the interests of my people, we should not be pressured in the mass media. I see these reports that Ukraine is trying to play on something, to speculate on this.
"No. It wants a just resolution of this issue. We want not to look foolish, not to get applauded for giving up our missiles and then forgotten."
 
Grabbing the Assets
 Coupled with that was the complaint that Russia had grabbed all the assets of the former Soviet Union -- foreign properties, diamonds, nuclear weapons -- and that Ukraine would no longer tolerate that.
Like many of his colleagues, Mr. Holovaty recalled angrily that Ukraine had let Russia take away all its tactical nuclear weapons without any compensation, or any idea where they ended up.
"As someone with influence in Parliament on this issue, I can tell you that Ukraine has been so burned by Russia in financial and economic matters that after a year of this we will not lightly give up any more assets," he said.
"We would never give up the nuclear weapons now, at least without something in return. We don't want to be the fool. The U.S. needs to understand this, to take into account the psychological factor."
Maj. Gen. Vladimir Muliava, the leader of the Ukrainian officers' association, said: "We don't seek to join any bloc or to have any nuclear weapons; we'll never attack anyone. But the time has come for the world to look at Ukraine's position. For too long, the world has neither seen nor heard Ukraine."
 
Blackmail Charge Denied
 But the notion that taking such a position could be interpreted as a form of nuclear blackmail prompted impassioned denials.
"We know the rockets are aimed at the U.S.," said Genrikh Altunian, a deputy who made a name under the Communist Government as a political dissident, "but we have no other rockets. We are in a difficult situation. I understand the concern of the U.S., but the U.S. must appreciate the concern of Ukraine."
According to Ukrainians and diplomats here, the United States and Russia have been slow to appreciate the depth of Ukraine's determination not to release its nuclear potential cheaply.
Ukraine's original Declaration of Sovereignty, adopted in July 1990, declared that it would be "nuclear free," and the pact forming a Commonwealth of Independent States left strategic weapons under Moscow's control.
 
Agreement in Lisbon
 In May , Mr. Kravchuk signed an agreement in Lisbon pledging Ukraine to the Start I agreement, which was signed by Mr. Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev in July 1991, five months before the Soviet Union fell apart. In the so-called Lisbon protocols, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus, the newly formed states, agreed not only to give up all their nuclear missiles in accordance with Start I but also to adhere to the nonproliferation treaty banning them from ever having nuclear weapons.
But then deputies began to have second thoughts, and the notion grew that there was no reason to cede to Russia an asset that had potential value as a source of income and as a source of respect.
A clutch of nuclear hawks, who include militant nationalists seeking power for Ukraine and hard-line Communists, began to argue that perhaps Ukraine should remain a nuclear power.
One of the latter is Maj. Gen. Vladimir Tolubko, a commander in the strategic forces who is also a deputy. Known as a powerful orator, General Tolubko has harangued the Parliament with arguments like, "As a military man, I believe that without nuclear arms, a state's defense cannot be sufficiently effective and trustworthy."
 
Economic Perils Seen
 On the other pole are deputies who argue that Ukraine should not risk its standing with the West by delaying ratification of Start I. Boris Tarasyuk, a deputy Foreign Minister and chairman of the National Committee on Disarmament, warned Parliament in an interview with "Voice of Ukraine" that failure to ratify the treaty could lead to a cessation of economic and relief aid and even trade sanctions.
Most deputies are thought to support ratification, but only with appropriate guarantees of security and compensation.
Mr. Kravchuk made clear in the interview he would not bring Start I before the Parliament unless he had concrete proposals. A practiced and cautious politician, the President avoided words like "conditions," but he left no doubt that this is what he meant.
"I can say with even more certainty than before that this document will be ratified, but possibly with some additions, some elaboration, on three issues," he said.
The first was a guarantee of security. Mr. Kravchuk said it should be made by nuclear states first, which "in my view should take note that the third largest nuclear power was voluntarily rejecting all this."
 
Security Guarantees Sought
 "I'm not ready to say what form this should be, but a declaration would calm the population, it would be easier for me to present this to the Supreme Soviet," Mr. Kravchuk said.
But members of Parliament were more specific about the guarantee, insisting it should be a treaty signed by the United States and Russia.
The demand has frustrated some American officials, who have been prepared to issue general assurances, but not to enter into any sort of formal defense treaty with Ukraine.
The second demand was compensation. Again, neither Mr. Kravchuk nor the deputies offered any specific figures. Washington has already offered Ukraine $175 million out of the $800 million appropriated in the bill to help former Soviet republics disarm, but Mr. Kravchuk said this was a "drop" compared to Ukraine's needs.
Officials made clear the demand for compensation was aimed primarily at Russia. Mr. Kravchuk and Mr. Yeltsin are to meet later this month, and dividing up the costs and proceeds from dismantling nuclear warheads and selling the nuclear fuel is one of the main topics they are to take up. Ukrainians believe the nuclear fuel from dismantled rockets could fetch up to $5.5 billion, and insist they should know what their share is.
 
Disposing of Toxic Fuel
 The third condition was environmental. The Ukrainians have raised the argument that the 130 SS-19 missiles on their soil carry extremely toxic liquid propellant, and that Ukraine simply does not have the technology or the funds to dispose of the fuel.
"If we were rich, we would never pose such questions," Mr. Kravchuk said. "But our economy is in crisis. There is a fall in production. Can we independently decide this problem? No, that's clear to all."
Again and again, Mr. Kravchuk insisted that Ukraine was true to its intention to give up nuclear weapons. But he rejected a suggestion that the debate was in any case hypothetical, since Ukraine had no control over the missiles and could not aim them.
The 46 SS-24 missiles, each with 10 independently targeted warheads, he said, were assembled in Ukraine and could be used by Ukraine.
"This is power," he said. "We want to get rid of it, but it's not hypothetical."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (93%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UKRAINE; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (93%); FRANCE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (96%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; KRAVCHUK, LEONID M (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



180 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON BACKS OFF HIS PLEDGE TO CUT THE DEFICIT IN HALF

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Responding quickly to new projections of larger deficits from President Bush, President-elect Bill Clinton appeared today to back off his campaign pledge to cut the Federal budget deficit in half in four years.
Mr. Clinton said the Bush Administration had camouflaged the magnitude of the deficit. 
 In Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Clinton said the new figures, issued today by the White House as part of Mr. Bush's final budget, were an "unsettling revelation." But in the campaign, Mr. Clinton was repeatedly told by his advisers that the deficit would be larger than acknowledged by Mr. Bush or assumed by Mr. Clinton in his campaign manifesto.
 
Billions and More Billions
 Mr. Clinton and his aides seemed to be using the new estimates of the deficit from the Bush White House to begin revising Mr. Clinton's campaign promises. The Clinton stance also suggested the possibility that the President-elect wanted to lay early political groundwork for unpopular measures to cut the growth of spending, or even perhaps to raise some taxes.
Aides to Mr. Clinton said that he still wanted to halve the deficit, but that it would probably take more than four years to achieve that goal. "It would be imprudent to go too far on deficit reduction so you put the economy in a tailspin," said a member of Mr. Clinton's transition team.
Mr. Bush's budget for the fiscal year 1994, which begins Oct. 1, shows Federal spending of $1.5 trillion, equal to nearly one-fourth of the nation's total output of goods and services. It shows a deficit of $292.4 billion in 1994, rising to $305 billion in 1997.
By contrast, in his last report to Congress, in July, Mr. Bush said the budget deficit would decline to $274.2 billion in 1994 and to $236.7 billion in 1997. The new estimate of the 1997 deficit is $68 billion higher than the estimate made by the White House five months ago. The actual deficit for the fiscal year 1992, which ended three months ago, was $290.2 billion, a record.
 
Both Sides Vulnerable
 "We now can see the full magnitude of the debt we will inherit and the challenge that we must confront," Mr. Clinton said.
It was not clear how far Republicans would go in asserting that Mr. Clinton was embracing a weak excuse for softening his promise. They could argue that since the $68 billion discrepancy is far short of half the projected deficit, learning of it today is insufficient reason to back away from the pledge. If they did, Democrats would counter with examples of number-juggling by the departing Administration -- as indeed they were already doing today.
The projected deficits for 1995 and beyond are higher than previous estimates by the White House, but are still based on the unrealistic assumption that spending for a wide range of domestic programs will be frozen in the next five years, with no allowance for inflation.
Unpublished estimates by the Office of Management and Budget show that if these programs are allowed to grow with inflation, there will be much larger deficits, around $400 billion a year in 1997 and 1998.
Publication of the new budget figures by the Republican Administration, and the swift response by the Democrats, echoed their debates in the 1992 campaign and foreshadowed battles over the economy.
Democrats have suggested for some time that the Bush Administration deliberately underestimates the deficit, while Republicans have long charged that Democrats offer a far more expensive slate of programs than the nation can afford.
The White House had suggested that Mr. Bush's final budget would be a dull, routine, apolitical exercise by a lame-duck Administration. In fact, the budget set off a political brawl over the nation's fiscal problems, with a skirmish over the candor of Mr. Bush and his budget director, Richard G. Darman.
 
Of Circles and Squares
 Democrats described Mr. Darman's work as duplicitous, bizarre, unrealistic and fanciful. They said that he had understated the amount by which Federal spending and the budget deficit will grow in coming years, and had therefore understated the problems bequeathed to Mr. Clinton.
In a separate chapter of the budget, which reads almost as if the 1992 election had not occurred, Mr. Darman boasts about the performance of the economy and mocks some of Mr. Clinton's proposals.
Referring to the economy, a decisive issue in the 1992 election, Mr. Darman says dryly, "Growth has not been as strong as one would have wished." Employment, retail sales, industrial production, personal income and consumer confidence are all rising, Mr. Darman says.
Mr. Darman describes Mr. Clinton's vision for America as "a circle that cannot be squared," and declares, "The math does not work."
Mr. Clinton, in a book-length version of his campaign manifesto, published in September, said, "Our plan will cut the deficit in half within four years."
But today Mr. Clinton said: "The unsettling revelation -- however camouflaged -- is that the projected deficit for 1997 has grown by $60 billion, and that, if left unchecked, it could soar above $400 billion near the end of the decade. This sounds the final warning bell. This endless pattern of rising deficits must stop."
 
Leery in Little Rock
 In Little Rock, George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's communications director, was repeatedly asked whether, in view of the new numbers, the President-elect would carry out his pledge to cut the deficit in half in four years. Mr. Stephanopoulos offered noncommittal answers:
"I think we have to address those challenges of the budget deficit and the investment deficit."
"These numbers show that the defict is far worse than anyone has been telling us for a long, long time."
"What this shows is that the numbers are different from what we heard during the campaign, but we are still committed to achieving reductions in the budget deficit."
 
'A Confusing Irrelevance'?
 Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee, chairman of the Budget Committee, said Mr. Darman had used bookkeeper's gimmicks to obscure the problems facing Mr. Clinton. Of the document issued today by the White House, Mr. Sasser said: "It's not a budget. It's an irrelevance. And it's a confusing irrelevance at that."
But Republicans said Mr. Clinton's estimates were also unrealistic. "It's obvious Clinton's plan won't cut the budget deficit in half," said Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, ranking Republican on the Budget Committee.
Mr. Bush's final budget offers sobering projections for some of the Government's solemn commitments:
*Outlays for Social Security will rise 39 percent, to $396 billion in 1998 from $285 billion in 1992.
*The cost of Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly and disabled, will double in six years, to $236 billion in 1998 from $116 billion in 1992.
*Federal spending on Medicaid, for low-income people, will more than double, to $156 billion in 1998 from $68 billion in 1992.
*Interest payments on the Federal debt will rise 55 percent, to $308 billion in 1998 from $199 billion last year. The debt itself, the accumulated total of all Federal borrowing, will rise more rapidly, to $4.8 trillion in 1998 from $3 trillion last year.
Ronald Reagan's last budget, sent to Congress in January 1989, and Mr. Bush's first budget, in January 1990, both said that the Federal budget deficit would be eliminated by now. They projected modest surpluses for 1993, 1994 and 1995.
 
A Perfunctory Letter
 There is no evidence that Mr. Bush played a significant role in decisions about the budget document published today. The President's Budget Message is a perfunctory letter to Congress; the contents of the document come from Mr. Darman and his staff.
Mr. Darman suggested today that Mr. Clinton had taken the idea of "investing in America's future" from prior Bush budgets. If Mr. Clinton really cares about such investments, Mr. Darman said, he will "slow the growth of the consumption portion of the Federal budget" by limiting the growth of Federal benefit programs like Medicare and Medicaid.
Mr. Darman called again for a limit on the growth of such programs, under which benefits are available to all applicants who meet certain eligibility criteria. Those programs grow automatically under existing law because of inflation, population growth, the aging of the population and other factors.
The proposed limit on the growth of Federal benefit programs, also known as entitlement programs, would save $15 billion in 1994 and a total of $358 billion from 1994 through 1998, by Mr. Darman's calculations. The White House did not specify how those savings should be achieved. Far more modest proposals to trim Medicare, farm subsidies, student loans and other forms of largess have provoked an uproar on Capitol Hill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Armed with a cellular phone and the 1994 budget projections, Cary O'Reilly of German Economic News called in the numbers outside the Government Printing Office. President-elect Bill Clinton appeared to use the new estimates to slow his timetable for cutting the deficit. (Associated Press) (pg. A20)
 
Graph: "Budget Deficit: Revising the Estimate" tracks White House estimates of the Federal budget deficit through 1998. (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (74%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



181 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: As Daily News Nears Sale, Foes and Challenges Await

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
Mortimer B. Zuckerman is expected to complete his purchase of The Daily News this week, which could lead to a newspaper war in the country's largest city and challenge the conventional wisdom that New York cannot support four newspapers.
In an industry that is part production-line grit and part blue smoke and mirrors, the arrival of Mr. Zuckerman as the would-be savior of the bruised Daily News could give the 73-year-old newspaper new life and the city a new publisher with a history of winning influential friends and making bitter enemies. 
 It could also ignite an angry and tangled fight with and among labor unions, because Mr. Zuckerman has no agreement with one of the newspaper's 10 unions, the New York Newspaper Guild. The guild represents writers and editors as well as advertising and circulation employees. The new publisher plans to have subordinates tell about 175 of of the guild's 540 members that they no longer have jobs, according to people in Mr. Zuckerman's camp and in the union. The notifications could begin as early as this morning.
The volatile union situation is only one of a series of challenges facing Mr. Zuckerman, a multimillionaire real-estate developer who also owns U.S. News & World Report and The Atlantic magazine. He must stabilize a bankrupt newspaper that lost $100 million during the last 10 years.
After a tortuous acquisition process, news-industry analysts are saying: Now comes the hard part. Mr. Zuckerman's promise to revitalize The News amounts to a test of whether a big-city mass-circulation tabloid can prosper into the next century.
"Somehow, will he pull off a miracle?" asked Gary Hoenig, editor of News Inc., an industry publication that covers the business of newspapers.
 
A Spur to Competition
 Financial success, if it occurs, could deliver a big payoff. Mr. Zuckerman has the chance to revive a powerful newspaper franchise in time to profit from an economic recovery. That could give The News the chance to regain its aggressiveness as a news organization, spurring new competition among all the city's newspapers.
In an interview this week, he said he would build The News by capitalizing on what he called the newspaper's niche as a practitioner of street-smart journalism for ordinary New Yorkers. "It is my intention," he said, "to have it remain a popular and populist tabloid speaking with the voice of New York to the average working family of New York."
He outlined what he described as a simple strategy. Advertisers, he said, would be drawn by a quality editorial product and a growing circulation. He said that by cutting labor costs and making other savings he had reduced costs to the point that he expected The News, which has been losing $7 million a year, to be profitable from his first year of ownership.
But even if he gets through what is certain to be a difficult transition, he will confront many of the same problems that whittled away The News's strength for decades. Though it still has a circulation of almost 800,000, many of its readers have aged and moved away from the city. The pool of advertisers eager to appear in an urban mass-circulation newspaper steadily declined from the days in the 1940's when the daily newspaper sold 2.4 million copies.
Signs of a New York City news battle are likely to come soon, not just at The News, but also at The New York Times, The New York Post and Newsday, each of which will need to defend against the new News. Coverage at all the newspapers, said Newsday's publisher, Robert M. Johnson, will be as good in 1993 as it has been in some time, if not better.
But newspaper readership habits are hard to break and hard to create, and no matter what happens in the next months, it is likely to be some time before Mr. Zuckerman's long-term success can be measured.
 
No Editor Yet
 Mr. Zuckerman has not yet named his editor. He has talked with several news executives in the United States and Britain. Most of the candidates, people in the industry said, are journalists with experience in what might be called serious tabloids, newspapers that blend coverage of social and policy issues with a tabloid style, which employs short articles, snappy writing and bold headlines.
Mr. Zuckerman's choice of an editor matters less than it would at many publications, because he is expected to be immersed in the details of news decisions at the start. At U.S. News & World Report, which Mr. Zuckerman purchased in 1984, he and an associate, Fred Drasner, split the management funtions.
Mr. Drasner, a former lawyer, concentrates on business concerns at U.S. News and Mr. Zuckerman has focused on editorial operations, spending one day a week at the magazine's Washington headquarters. U.S. News has been widely cited as more vigorous in recent years and its advertising pages have increased.
 
Drasner as Co-Publisher
 Mr. Drasner is to be the co-publisher with Mr. Zuckerman of The News and Mr. Zuckerman said he would divide the duties in the same way with Mr. Drasner. Mr. Zuckerman said he was committed to improving The News's political, investigative and economic coverage.
Mr. Zuckerman, who is 55 and unmarried, was born in Canada, the only son of a successful tobacco and candy distributor who died when he was a teen-ager. He started a fortune that has been estimated at several hundred million dollars in the Boston real-estate business.
His fame has come, however, as much from his active social life, which has included dating Gloria Steinem and other accomplished women, and from development controversies he stirred up in Boston and New York as from what his friends say are significant business and journalistic accomplishments.
The best indication of the direction Mr. Zuckerman is likely to take at The News may be the types of serious political and economic topics Mr. Zuckerman has written about in U.S. News. Some journalists who know Mr. Zuckerman well said his interests are likely to help shape a newspaper that tries to break news about important subjects.
"Mort is a serious guy," said Ken Auletta, the author and longtime Daily News columnist. "I think he's going to make it a better paper." Mr. Auletta, who has sometimes bickered with Mr. Zuckerman publicly, is part of a group of well-connected people, including media celebrities and Mr. Zuckerman, who have played a regular Saturday softball game for years not far from Mr. Zuckerman's summer home in East Hampton.
 
The Dangers of East Hampton
 Mr. Zuckerman's connections to that group, some say, provide both benefits and dangers as he takes over a newspaper whose readers may have views of life different from those prevalent at chic Long Island beach parties.
The benefits are that Mr. Zuckerman has social connections with some of the region's most powerful people and to influential writers and editors. The dangers are that "Long Island chic" would probably fail as an editorial policy for The News. Some journalists say they have warned Mr. Zuckerman that he must remain keenly aware of the character of the newspaper he is buying.
Jerry Nachman, the former editor of The New York Post, said he was explicit with Mr. Zuckerman when the two talked recently. He said his advice was: "Sell the house in East Hampton and get out of the influence of those awful people, especially his media friends. Never take advice from anyone who earns over $42,500 a year."
 
Same Strategies
 Although Mr. Zuckerman's purchase of The News is likely to spur greater competition over local coverage, a Zuckerman-owned News preserves the relative competitive standings of the newspapers in New York City. In interviews this week, the publishers of each of the other major New York newspapers said Mr. Zuckerman's arrival would dictate that they retain strategies that have governed for years.
Mr. Johnson of Newsday acknowledged that when The News appeared to be near death during its long strike two years ago, Newsday thought it might benefit from a "windfall." But he said New York Newsday's parent, the Times Mirror Company, remained committed to a long-term plan that he said calls for New York Newsday to break even in 1995.
At The New York Post, long considered the most endangered of the New York newspapers, Peter S. Kalikow, the publisher, said The Post is "poised to do O.K." in new competition in the city. He said an imminent agreement with an investor would give The Post the capital to modernize its printing equipment.
At The New York Times, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher, said he welcomed the prospect that The News could return to financial health, partly because it could be an important journalistic voice in New York. "I want The Daily News to exist and I want it to exist for a whole lot of reasons," Mr. Sulzberger said.
Conventional analysis in the newspaper industry has long held that The Times benefits if The News is strong because The News operates as a buffer, keeping New York Newsday from attempting to compete with The Times for its higher-income and better-educated readers.
 
A Series of Critics
 Mr. Zuckerman has collected a series of critics over the years who view him with much the same bitterness now emerging from some members of the Newspaper Guild, which has accused Mr. Zuckerman of unscrupulous tactics. Some of them say that despite his experience with magazines, he does not understand the values of journalism, operating in the news sphere with what they say are the deal-making values of the real-estate business.
One critic is David Halberstam, the author and journalist, who has questioned Mr. Zuckerman's motives ever since the two fought over Mr. Zuckerman's plan to build a tower south of Central Park that a group of prominent New Yorkers, including Mr. Halberstam, opposed.
"He likes to think of himself as a journalist," Mr. Halberstam said. "He's not. He's a real-estate person who has bought a series of very vulnerable publications and it gave him a social legitimacy that he very, very badly wanted."
In the interview this week, Mr. Zuckerman said suggestions by Mr. Halberstam and others that he is interested in publishing because of the social entree it provides were "stupid" and motivated by the "vindictiveness of certain people." He cited praise of U.S. News & World Report's improvements and that it had surpassed both Time and Newsweek in advertising pages as evidence of his record as a publisher.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Newspapers: Competing for Readers" shows the following curculation averages of New York City daily newspapers for the six months that ended Sept. 30, 1992:
 
New York Post (Not published on Sunday)
 Monday through Friday -- 437,918
 Saturday -- 365,913
 
Newsday (New York City and Long Island editions)
 Monday through Friday -- 758,358
 Saturday -- 644,273
 Sunday -- 844,618
 
Daily News
 Monday through Friday -- 777,129
 Saturday -- 662,617
 Sunday -- 969,341
 
The New York Times
 Monday through Friday -- 1,145,890
 Saturday -- 997,127
 Sunday -- 1,741,989
 
(Source: Audit Bureau of Circulations) (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NEWS; NEWSPAPER GUILD, THE (TNG) U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (67%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NEWS; NEWSPAPER GUILD, THE (TNG) AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING CITY LIFE (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



182 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 United Airlines announced layoffs, salary cuts, fewer flights and other measures aimed at cutting operating expenses by $400 million a year. [Page D1.]
Ford outdealed Honda to claim the best-selling car title. Ford's 409,751 Tauruses compared with 393,447 Accords sold in 1992. [D1.] Sales of domestically made cars and light trucks fell 1.5 percent in the final 10 days of 1992. [D5.] 
 A Federal jury convicted Charles H. Keating Jr. and his son of fraud and racketeering charges related to the collapse of the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association. [D1.]
A.T.& T. and Novell plan to develop and market a product to link business telephone systems with computer networks. [D2.]
The Daily News acquisition is expected to be completed this week by Mortimer Zuckerman. [A1.]
I.B.M. said its first payroll cuts for 1993 would be at three operations in the Hudson Valley of New York State. [D4.]
Makers of saline-filled breast implants must prove the safety of the devices, or face having them removed from the market, the F.D.A. said. [A16.]
Airbus said it was cooperating with Boeing to study the feasibility of a new giant aircraft, but Boeing denied it. [D4.]
Nationsbank said it was introducing a credit card that would enable card holders to build their savings. [D4.]
G.E.'s finance unit agreed to buy Weyerhaeuser's GNA unit, which markets mutual funds and insurance products. [D4.]
The United Steelworkers sent letters to five steel companies, proposing long-term contracts and flexible work rules. [D4.]
Daniel Finkelstein, head of Macy's West, resigned. [D5.]
 
The Economy
Clinton seemed to back off his pledge to halve the deficit in four years, saying Bush had camouflaged its magnitude. [A1.]
Gov. Cuomo proposed financing schools through income taxes, rather than property taxes. [A1.]
 
 Markets
 Stock mutual funds showed less hefty gains in 1992 than in recent years, despite a strong fourth quarter. [D1.]
The selloff in drug and tobacco stocks gathered force, as the Dow Jones industrial average inched down 2.71 points on heavy volume to 3,305.16. [D6.] The corporate bond market withstood a near-record barrage of new issues. [D15.] The dollar finished higher against key currencies, while gold fell. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
The Fed's hard money crowd is on to its next battle: inflation. Economic Scene. [D2.]
Engineers and consultants will benefit from the infrastructure push. Market Place. [D6.]
Can a reader's choice of magazine predict his or her behavior? Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]
 
The New Stock Tables
The Times has introduced new stock market tables this week to improve legibility and provide additional information about trading volume and price changes. The new tables use some abbreviations that differ from those formerly used.
Readers who need assistance in finding stocks, or in understanding the new tables, may call (212) 556-5899, which will be answered from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Sunday through Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (84%); NOVELL INC (57%); AIRBUS SAS (55%); BOEING CO (55%); MACY'S WEST INC (53%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AIRLINES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); BONDS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); TAX LAW (67%); CURRENCIES (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); EDUCATION FUNDING (64%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



183 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Journal;
Finally, Prince Finds a Bride: A Harvard Woman

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Japan's longest-running soap opera, the search for a bride for Crown Prince Naruhito, ended tonight with the disclosure that the country's next Empress will be a decidedly modern Japanese woman. She is a 29-year-old Harvard graduate who has spent her short career as a diplomat handling some of Japan's most delicate economic disputes with the United States. 
 Though the official announcement of the Prince's engagement to Masako Owada is not expected for two weeks, the Japanese press said he would be married in May or June in a giant state celebration.
In a country looking for a joyful interlude to a dreary winter of economic downturn and political scandal, the news touched off a rush of excitement that could be seen on the street corners of Tokyo.
Crowds grabbed for single-sheet extras rushed onto the streets by the country's biggest newspapers, which decided tonight to terminate a total ban on reports about the Prince's seemingly endless quest for romance. But the palace, clearly irked at the news leak, kept silent.
 
The Right Size, Too
 For believers in the sacredness of Japan's imperial family, the engagement of the 32-year-old Crown Prince helped to assure the line of succession in a family that has reigned if not ruled for 1,300 years and traces its lineage to mythological emperors of 2,600 years ago. It brought an end to a search that was so long, so tortured and so scrutinized that it was the subject of mild ridicule as well as heartfelt sympathy for a young man trying to find a bride.
Miss Owada has long been rumored as a leading candidate because she fits most of the rigid requirements of the Imperial Household Agency, which runs the lives of the royal family. She comes from one of the country's most prominent families and she is an internationalist, fluent in English, German and French.
Perhaps most important, she is an inch shorter than the Prince, who is 5 feet, 6 inches tall.
She will also be the first person with a career ever to become a Crown Princess. The current Empress, Michiko, became the first commoner to become a Crown Princess when she married Akihito in 1959.
While she is widely expected to resign from the Foreign Ministry before her marriage, Miss Owada is wholly unlike most of the demure women who have ascended to the throne. She went to public high school in Belmont, Mass., and did not return to Japan full time until after she graduated from Harvard College in 1985.
In a country that still sends proper upper-class women to learn the intricacies of tea ceremony and flower arranging, she has been immersed in negotiations over semiconductors and arguments over what rules should govern foreign lawyers seeking to practice in Japan.
Her family is almost as well known in Washington as it is in Tokyo; her father, Hisashi Owada, is Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs, the country's most senior career diplomat, and most likely will serve as Japan's next Ambassador to the United States.
"It's pretty amazing when you think about the stereotype of a Japanese empress," a friend of Miss Owada said tonight. "Masako has a lot to talk about with Hillary Clinton."
Miss Owada has stayed out of sight for the last two days. As hundreds of Japanese reporters swarmed around her family's house tonight in a wealthy Tokyo neighborhood, her mother, Yumiko, said through a house intercom system that her daughter "is in bed with a cold."
Unlike Britain's royalty, Japan's imperial family is largely cloistered.As a result, no one knows how big a voice the son of Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko -- and grandson of Emperor Hirohito -- had in the decision. But friends of Miss Owada have said he has pursued her since they met at a diplomatic reception in 1986.
In past interviews, Naruhito said only that he was looking for a woman who "shares my values," once commenting he was not interested in anyone who would "go on a shopping spree at Tiffany's."
The problem has been finding a woman willing to enter what should be a Japanese fairy tale: Many prospects have been scared away by a job that makes the pressures facing the Princess of Wales look as easy to swallow as a piece of sushi.
The Japanese press reported tonight that Miss Owada first turned down the Crown Prince's proposal after a meeting at a duck-hunting ground in October, but that after he pressed, she agreed three weeks ago.
As every elite family in Japan knows, Empress Michiko quarreled with her mother-in-law and was widely criticized in the aristocracy, which resented her commoner roots. In 1963 she was hospitalized for an abortion and what the Imperial Household Agency said was "great mental strain."
No one is likely to know what assurances of better treatment, if any, Miss Owada received. "I think everyone who knows her is quite worried," a friend said tonight.
But hardly all of the problems in finding a suitable bride were the palace's fault; racy weeklies here have long blamed the Crown Prince himself. He has been described as overly serious and lacking passion.
The Japanese press often takes delight in quoting the full title of his graduation thesis at Gakushuin University: "Some Remarks on Maritime Transportation in the Seto Inland Sea in the Medieval Period.
In 1990 the search for a bride seemed to enter a desperate pass after Naruhito's younger brother, Prince Akishino, married Kiko Kawashima, a student. Japanese reporters staked out the homes of every rumored candidate. Finally the palace prodded the Japanese press into a vow of silence, saying the "privacy of the prospective candidates must be protected."
But in recent days, word of the engagement spread, and soon got to the press. Tonight, at a hastily called meeting of top newspaper editors, the decision was made to rescind the ban, and with characteristic Japanese precision the news flooded across television and news wires at precisely 8:45 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crown Prince Naruhito's long quest for a bride has apparently ended with the disclosure that he will wed Masako Owada, a 29-year-old Harvard graduate who works in the Foreign Ministry, is fluent in four languages and, not unimportantly, is an inch shorter than the 32-year-old Prince. (NHK-TV and Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: ROYAL FAMILY; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); MARRIAGE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SCANDALS (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; NARUHITO (CROWN PRINCE OF JAPAN); OWADA, MASAKO

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



184 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: 2 States, 1 Target;
Cuomo and Weicker Differ in Attack On Systems of Bias by Local Wealth

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 6

 BODY:
In Albany and Hartford, two Governors used their annual State of the State addresses today to suggest new ways to battle the historic problems created by the side-by-side coexistence of rich and poor school districts.
Each addressed a different aspect of the crucial issue of education. Mario M. Cuomo of New York focused on the way wealth is tapped to pay for education. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut confronted the educational disparities that inevitably result when white students attend schools in affluent suburbs while minority students attend schools in poor urban areas. 
 But each, in a sense, suggested that part of the solution was to seek a broader financial base than the traditional school district, which has been so central for so long in the way Americans make decisions on educating their children.
Mr. Cuomo suggested that money for schools should come from countywide income taxes rather than, as currently, from property taxes assessed school district by school district, a system that allows wealthy communities to raise more for their schools than poor ones.
 
Killing White Localism
 Mr. Weicker said that Connecticut's school system should be subdivided into six large regions, eliminating the district-by-district system that has allowed white communities to send their children to predominantly white schools.
While the two Governors were speaking this afternoon, the most fundamental issues that have long plagued school systems, like race and class, were at the forefront in both state capitals.
Mr. Cuomo asked the Legislature to change a state law to allow counties to create a personal income tax so that the burden of paying for the schools could be shifted from property taxpayers to income taxpayers.
Governor Cuomo said his primary intent was to create a more equitable system of taxation by replacing a regressive tax with a more progressive one.
Mr. Cuomo said he had not decided whether the counties or the state would devise a formula for distributing the money to individual school districts. But he said that either one could guarantee that poor districts receive more help than they get now, when they are limited to what they can raise from their own property taxes.
And Mr. Weicker suggested redrawing the state's educational map to create six regions that would have to find ways to desegregate their schools. The proposal represented his response to a major lawsuit that charges Connecticut with maintaining de facto segregation in its schools.
The lawsuit argues that the Hartford schools, which are 90 percent minority, receive far less financial support than heavily white schools in the suburbs. It is being tried now in Superior Court in Hartford.
Rather than responding defensively to the lawsuit, which was filed by the families of 17 children from Hartford and West Hartford, Mr. Weicker made a strong case for reparations.
"If you are poor, if you are a minority, and if you live in one of our cities, you start the game at a disadvantage," he said.
Mr. Weicker then provided a detailed proposal for the creation of the six regions, setting deadlines for them to reduce "the racial and economic isolation of all students on a school-by-school, regionwide basis."
Politicians in New Jersey also have been waging a bitter fight over school financing. Just last month, Gov. Jim Florio and Republican legislative leaders reached a compromise that replaced the existing school aid system with a new one.
The decisions of both Governors to unveil proposals that will have little cost, at least in the short term, reflected the tenacity of the recession that still grips the region.
But the methods used by Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Weicker to sell their ideas provided a stark contrast between a pair of Governors at different stages of their careers.
Mr. Weicker, who is beginning the third year of his first term, was the poet on Wednesday. He devoted the vast majority of his speech to the problem of racial inequity in the state's schools, speaking movingly about "a Connecticut of promise, as seen in its suburbs, and a Connecticut of despair, as seen in its poverty-stricken cities."
By contrast, Mr. Cuomo, who began his 11th year in office, seemed to issue his school proposal almost as an afterthought. It received two paragraphs in his 156-page message to the Legislature and one paragraph in his somewhat rambling 59-minute speech. It took even the state's Education Commissioner, Thomas Sobol, by surprise.
"It really was unexpected," said Mr. Sobol, who said he could not support the proposal until dozens of questions were answered. "It's interesting but it's going to take a lot of work to figure out."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (CONN); STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS); STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LITIGATION (88%); TAX LAW (88%); LEGISLATION (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); RACE & RACISM (75%); INCOME TAX (73%); FAMILY (73%); SUBURBS (70%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



185 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW PRESIDENCY: The President-Elect;
Auto Makers Ask Clinton to Limit Imports of Mini-Vans From Japan

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Leaders of the Big Three American auto makers today pressed President-elect Bill Clinton to limit Japanese auto imports into the United States.
Harold A. Poling, chairman of the Ford Motor Company, John F. Smith, Jr., president of the General Motors Corporation, Robert J. Eaton, chairman of the Chrysler Corporation, and Owen Bieber, president of the United Auto Workers, spoke with Mr. Clinton and Vice-President-elect Al Gore at the Governor's Mansion, in a meeting they requested before Mr. Clinton completes his economic plans. 
 Auto industry officials said the executives had wanted to make certain that Mr. Clinton fulfills his campaign pledge to raise the import tariff on Japanese-made mini-vans and sport utility vehicles by designating them as trucks, which would sharply increase their price and make them less competitive.
They were also seeking from Mr. Clinton a change in the regulations that would require Japanese cars assembled in the United States to contain more American-made parts to qualify as domestically made and avoid certain tariffs.
In addition, the auto executives asked Mr. Clinton to relax his goal of increasing fuel economy standards to a fleet average of 40 miles a gallon by the year 2,000, and suggested a tax on gasoline instead, officials said. This would still promote energy conservation but without requiring the auto makers to build smaller cars, which they believe the public will not buy.
Mr. Poling told reporters after today's meeting that Mr. Clinton stood by his demands for better fuel efficiency. "He was desirous of improved fuel efficiency, but he did not want to do anything detrimental to the auto industry," he said.
Mr. Clinton did not comment specifically on the auto makers' request, but issued a statement after the meeting in which he said he and Vice President-elect Gore viewed the session as a "fresh start on how business, Government and labor a can work together."
Another topic at today's meeting was the North American Free Trade Agreement. Here the auto makers and the labor unions are on opposite sides. The manufacturers like the agreement, which is very favorable to them, while the auto workers are worried that the agreement will result only in more jobs moving to Mexico.
The American International Automobile Dealers Association issued a statement tonight calling on Mr. Clinton to reject the auto maker's protectionist demands, saying that "Clinton should understand that stricter import quotas and higher tariffs will result in increased automobile prices."
Mr. Clinton's own economic advisers are divided and are scheduled to meet here on Thursday to begin narrowing the options for Mr. Clinton's proposals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (72%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); FUEL TAX (74%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); GASOLINE (68%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



186 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW PRESIDENCY: The White House Staff;
Advisers Looking Askance At Pledge for 25% Staff Cut

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6

 BODY:
As President-elect Bill Clinton's advisers get closer to becoming White House staff members, they are growing dubious about his campaign promise to cut that staff by 25 percent.
Transition officials now say it could take months for the new Administration to meet that goal, if it does so at all. 
 The pledge that Mr. Clinton made as outsider campaigning against Washington bloat appears to be bumping up against Washington reality. One difficulty is that by law some positions cannot be eliminated; another is Mr. Clinton's own desire to create some new jobs in the White House, especially ones that would deal with the economy.
And then there are the political considerations that led to the creation of many jobs in the first place.
"It's doable," said one official involved in the transition planning. "The question is what political price one has to pay to do it."
 
Already a Retreat
 Some analysts said Mr. Clinton might feel less pressure to cut positions because he had already backed away from campaign urgings that Congress cut its own staff by 25 percent.
The Clinton aides insisted they were not retreating from the pledge regarding White House staff members. But they acknowledged that they were pursuing approaches that might make the cuts more cosmetic than real.
First, there is the question of which staff is to be cut. In his criticism of President Bush, Mr. Clinton never specified if his 25 percent pledge applied to the 400 or so people who make up the President's closest personal staff or to the larger Executive Office of the President, which has about 1,800 full-time positions.
Recognizing that cuts would be easier from a large pool, transition officials said the reductions would likely come from the xxecutive office.
 
Some Cuts, More Shifts
 Casting a wider net would also bring in more jobs that are considered dispensable. Topping the list for elimination, officials said, is the Council on Competitiveness, a group headed by Vice President Dan Quayle that reviews regulations with an eye on cutting costs to industry.
Other cuts will not really be cuts but reshufflings outside the White House. For example, Clinton aides said they hoped to move the Office of National Drug Control Policy, which has more than 100 staff members, into other agencies, like the Justice Department.
Officials also said they planned to shift some White House slots to the Democratic National Committee.
But even those efforts would only be small steps toward meeting the 25 percent goal. The Council on Competiveness, for instance, has just four full-time positions; the rest of its staff was borrowed from other offices.
 
Priority for Budget Posts
 Whatever cuts those moves produce may be offset by Mr. Clinton's desire for a staff that both is large enough to handle the demands of a new Administration and includes some new positions, like his Economic Security Council. In addition, Mr. Clinton is reluctant to make cuts in the largest executive office agency, the Office of Management and Budget, because, as an adviser put it, "it's the only agency responsible for the budget and the deficit is bigger than ever."
The uncertainty over how to cut the White House staff comes at a time when Mr. Clinton is preparing to announce who will fill the top tier of the executive branch as well as most other top sub-Cabinet positions.
Transition officials said Mr. Clinton had tentatively agreed to a new White House structure in which there would be two domestic policy advisers. The purpose of that arrangement is to create a space for Carol H. Rasco, a Clinton adviser on education and welfare issues in Arkansas, alongside Bruce Reed, the longtime favorite for the post. Mr. Clinton has been pressed by women's groups to include more women in upper echelons of his Administration.
Officials also said Harold M. Ickes Jr., who was New York State chairman for the Clinton campaign during the primaries last year, appears to be headed to serve as deputy chief of staff under Thomas F. McLarty 3d.
Clinton aides, under the direction of Mr. McLarty, said they hoped to move quickly on their reorganization to avoid what happened to President Jimmy Carter; he cut the White House staff months after many people had been hired, forcing them out of jobs.
 
'Swollen and Inefficient'
 But some Clinton advisers said it could be months before they resolve how to make the cuts.
"I think it may be a harder task than they anticipated," said Richard C. Holbrooke, a former assistant Secretary of State who led a bipartisan commission that gave Mr. Clinton recommendations on reorganizing the White House. "But I think they're headed in the right direction. They're inheriting a White House that's become swollen and inefficient, according to its own staffers who talked to us privately."
Mr. Holbrooke's report cited a "title creep" in the White House, in which there are now 20 "deputy assistants to the President" and 42 "special assistants to the President."
In a paper for the conservative Heritage Foundation that is being read by transition officials, Donald Devine, a director of the Office of Personnel Management in the Reagan Administration, contends that trimming the White House staff is critical.
"The whole monstrosity of staff at the White House chokes off efficient decision making," Mr. Devine said in an interview. "The Cabinet should be providing the staff for the President, not a bunch of relatively low level career people."
In the end, however, it may be hard to know whether or not Mr. Clinton fulfills his promise, because it is almost impossible to calculate the actual size of the White House staff. The staff is supplemented by hundreds of people called "detailees" who are temporarily dispatched from other agencies.
Referring to such staff members, Stanley E. Collender, a specialist in the Federal budget at Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm, said, "They could make it look like they've cut the White House by 50 percent and have more people there than ever."
But Mr. Clinton's pledge sounded earnest on the campaign trail. As he repeated his promise to cut a staff that "Republicans have ballooned," he would tell audiences, "I want to set an example."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES US PRESIDENTS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); DRUG POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); RASCO, CAROL H; REED, BRUCE; ICKES, HAROLD M; MCLARTY, THOMAS F 3D BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



187 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Aid Urged for Dislocated Workers in Arms Industry

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Echoing themes endorsed by the Clinton team, a Federal commission today sharply criticized Government programs meant to help thousands of dislocated employees of military contractors.
The Defense Conversion Commission recommended that existing programs be strengthened and better coordinated with local communities to cope with the 960,000 jobs in private industry that are expected to be lost from the weapons makers from 1991 to 1997 as a result of military cutbacks. 
 But the seven-member panel, made up of senior officials from the Defense, Commerce and Labor departments and the Council of Economic Advisers, also concluded that current military cuts were less severe in size and pace than those that followed World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War, although their effects were pronounced "in a few states and some localities."
California, Connecticut and Texas have been particularly hard hit by the cuts in military industry jobs, the 85-page report said.
 
Role Seen for U.S.
 President-elect Bill Clinton and President Bush have diverged greatly in their views of how to help these dislocated workers, as well as over what role the Government should play in helping military contractors adjust to smaller Pentagon budgets.
Mr. Clinton and his designated Secretary of Defense, Les Aspin, advocate a greater government role in retraining laid-off workers and continued production of several major weapons systems, like attack submarines and fighter aircraft, to keep that technology readily available in times of crisis.
Many of the commission's recommendations mirrored principles that Mr. Clinton has supported, including a closer integration between military technology and the commercial marketplace and improved programs for laid-off workers.
"The Federal Government needs to do a much better job of integrating existing programs with the local communities," David J. Berteau, the commission's chairman, said in a telephone interview today.
 
Prospects of Contractors
 Barring mergers or acquisitions, the commission said, the top 25 Pentagon contractors should remain financially sound and should be able to manage the military cutbacks successfully.
The commission recommended that savings from the military cuts be invested in vital services and installations, like transportation, and other crucial technologies.
The panel also proposed that the Government take steps to promote the use of technology with both military and commercial applications. This would satisfy military requirements at lower costs and maintain a technologically advanced industrial sector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; LAYOFFS (LABOR) DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); KOREAN WAR (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



188 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Stock Funds Did Well, Relatively

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
Despite a strong fourth-quarter performance, stock mutual funds showed less hefty gains in 1992 than in recent years. But in an era of low interest rates, the returns were still sizable enough to leave investors grinning.
Pushed by a 9 percent jump in the last quarter, stock mutual funds posted an 8.9 percent gain for the year, Lipper Analytical Services reported yesterday. The results were far below the brawny rise of 36 percent in 1991, and also below the average compounded annual returns of 15.6 percent in the last 15 years and 11.1 percent in the last 30 years. 
 But the performance was still much better than the gains for the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, which rose about 4.5 percent, not including dividends, and about 7.6 percent with dividends reinvested. That performance is attributable in part to the fact that the S.& P. 500 does not include many small stocks, which as a group did better for the quarter and in the year than larger ones.
With low interest rates during the year, the returns on stock funds also exceeded those on certificates of deposit, money market funds and fixed-income funds, and also exceeded the inflation rate.
"We think that the 1992 year performance is going to be more like what we are going to see in the future than the rate for the last 15 years," said A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical Services. "I think people will treat the results as fairly good, particularly in comparison with other investments."
Mr. Lipper said he also believed the 1992 results were below normal in part because the 1991 performance was so spectacular. The Federal Reserve's decision to cut the discount rate to 3 1/2 percent in the closing days of 1991 may have contributed as much as 6 percent to 9 percent of that year's growth.
"One could argue that action might have moved some performance into 1991 that under other circumstances might have been in 1992," he said.
The biggest winners for 1992 were stock funds that invested with financial services concerns. With Wall Street posting all-time record profits and savings and loans beginning to show signs of recovery, the stocks of financial services companies boomed during the year, and funds that invested in them enjoyed a heady ride.
Financial services funds that Lipper studied grew an astonishing 35.2 percent in the year, reflecting 15.8 percent growth in the fourth quarter. Four of the top five mutual funds for the year invested in the financial services industry, and such funds have been among the top five leading categories for eight of the last 10 years.
Funds that invest in science and technology companies saw the second- biggest performance of 1992, with returns of 13.5 percent for the year and 17.7 percent for the fourth quarter.
For the fifth year in a row, stock funds made up of smaller, growth-oriented issues outperformed funds that invest in companies with larger capitalizations. For the year, small-company growth funds posted returns of about 12.5 percent, with almost all of that performance coming from the fourth quarter's growth rate of about 16 percent.
"The first six months of the year looked pretty grim," said Michael DiCarlo, portfolio manager of John Hancock Special Equities Fund, the second-best performing fund for the quarter and the 18th best for the year. "It was for those people who were patient and stayed with the program of investing in emerging growth stocks that did well."
Mr. DiCarlo added that the weak economy was more favorable for small, growth-oriented, as opposed to larger, value-oriented, stocks, which are generally bought because of their assets or prospective earnings.
 
Some Hot Initial Offerings
 Some of the year's hottest investments were initial public offerings, and some fund managers found profits in offerings that Wall Street snubbed. William Dutton, portfolio manager of Skyline Special Equities, the seventh-best fund for the year, said he invested in two initial offerings in 1992 -- Younkers Inc., a department-store chain, and First USA, a credit card issuer -- that had returns of more than 100 percent.
"Both were I.P.O.'s that were not at all hot," Mr. Dutton said. "Their prices had to be cut to get the deals done, but after they came public they both had very good performance."
International funds were hit by the worldwide economic slowdown and the value of the dollar. For the fourth year in a row, domestic funds outperformed international funds, largely because of currency movements. According to Lipper, 25 of the 28 currencies the firm tracks weekly underperformed the dollar for the year.
But the performance of individual international funds depended greatly on the areas of the world on which they focused. Pacific region funds, Latin American funds, and others posted small gains, while Japanese equity funds were the biggest losers for the year, dropping more than 21 percent.
Gold-oriented funds, overall losers for the last 10 years, were the second-worst performers. These funds, hit hard by sinking gold prices, lost 14.6 percent in 1992; they lost 9.2 percent in the last quarter.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Performace by Group" lists cumulative total reinvestment performance of 1,413 equity-oriented mutual funds and their assets at the end of the year (Source: Lipper Analytical Services) (pg. D1); "The Best and Worst of 1992" lists cumulative returns, reflecting reinvested dividends, from a survey of 1,224 stock and long-term, taxable fixed-income funds (Source: Lipper Analytical Services) (pg. D15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC LIPPER INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIPPER ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INFLATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BONDS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (66%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



189 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Reflections on the Scars Of the Old Budget Fights

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Every morning when he looks in the mirror, Richard G. Darman said today, he sees a tiny scar on his forehead, the remnant of a fall he took outside a McDonald's restaurant in the autumn of 1990, at the height of the struggle over the budget between the Bush Administration and Congress.
The scar reminds him of the battle wounds of the last two years as President Bush's budget director, Mr. Darman said at an unusually ruminative meeting with reporters. 
 With the President interested mostly in foreign affairs and the Treasury Secretary, Nicholas F. Brady, diffident to the point of obscurity, Mr. Darman dominated the Government's economic and domestic policies to an extent that no other unelected official has in decades. No proposal was offered, no measure was advocated or vetoed without Mr. Darman's involvement.
But the pressures were such that, at least for the last two years, he almost never spoke out in public, never defended himself on the record, never illuminated his guiding philosophy.
 
No Work to Do
 This morning, his final budget delivered, Mr. Darman had no work to do for the first time he could remember. As he met with about two dozen reporters around a table in his conference room, he reflected on the years past like a soldier home from the wars.
No one else in the Administration has taken so much hostile fire, and probably no one else has so few supporters.
Conservatives vilify him for supposedly persuading Mr. Bush to break his no-new-taxes vow, and many Republicans say that caused the President's defeat on Election Day.
Democrats in Congress say Mr. Darman's arrogance and stridency contributed to the sour relationship between the White House and the Capitol.
Many civil servants quit their jobs at the Office of Management and Budget saying they could not work with him, and many who stayed say Mr. Darman gave them no respect and made them feel like slave labor.
Reporters found him sometimes inaccessible, other times manipulative.
 
Governmental Savvy
 But no one ever questioned his intellect, his drive or his mastery of the intricacies of Government.
Making enemies, Mr. Darman asserted, was inherent in his job. He said: "If you're an O.M.B. director who tries to assume any power in a context of scarce resources and a context of ideological strife, with all the large stakes, you will find yourself at just about the dead center of maximum conflict."
But he said no one should feel sorry for him. "If you were to ask me would I do it over again, the answer is, Absolutely," he said. "Yes, it's been tough. But I would have had to be a fool not to know that on the way in."
Being a fool is one of the few things Mr. Darman has never been accused of. Rare for a Republican, he is interested not only in the power of Government but also in its inner workings, and today he scorned people who adopt an "anti-government spirit."
Asked whether he thought the country was on firmer fiscal footing now than when Mr. Bush took office, Mr. Darman first refused to answer, saying he would seem self-serving. But after his deputy, Robert E. Grady, held forth on how the 1990 budget agreement had restrained Government spending, Mr. Darman could not resist.
 
Powerless Over Some Things
 "There are so many things that affect the outcome over which you have no control," he said.
For instance, he had no influence over the Federal Reserve Board, which sets interest rates. And, he said, the Democrats, who run Congress, thwarted him at every turn, and much of what he hoped to accomplish would have had a better chance in a second term.
Most important, he said, in another four years he thinks he could have persuaded the Government to put a ceiling on mandatory spending, which includes expensive programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
In other words, things probably are worse now than they were in 1989, but it is not his fault.
When Mr. Darman talked today about policy, he was as self-possessed as usual, talking about mandatory spending and "high-growth" budgets and "maximum deficit amounts."
But when he was asked about himself, his face became strangely flushed, his hands shook, his lips quivered and he laughed awkwardly.
Now 49 years old, he has spent nearly all adult life in the Government, working at the budget office, in the White House and in a half-dozen other agencies. When Democrats were in the White House, he taught about government at Harvard University. He once told an interviewer that his only ambition was to hold high Government office.
He said he had no idea what he would do when he had to leave office. Politically, he said, the country is at a crossroads with new coalitions being sorted out, and he would like to play a part. He does not plan to drop out of public life like David A. Stockman, Ronald Reagan's budget director and Mr. Darman's friend, who is now an investment banker. "I find it almost impossible to imagine I would decide to do that," he said.
"But certainly in the current context," he conceded, given the enemies he has made, "I couldn't expect to have a great deal of influence."
Rumors have it that he is planning a book. In fact, one Washington author said he saw a part of a Darman manuscript called "Adventures in Wonderland" in an editor's office in New York.
But Mr. Darman said he had no contract for a book and had not decided whether to write one.
He certainly does not want to write anything that might inhibit his returning to Government, he said. And then he added, "I'm obviously someone who cares a lot about Government."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard G. Darman, President Bush's budget director. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); VETO (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; DARMAN, RICHARD G; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



190 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Schools Need Race Balance, Weicker Says

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., in a State of the State speech that focused almost entirely on the deep racial divisions in Connecticut's public schools, today urged legislators and local school leaders to begin a voluntary integration effort that would give urban and suburban districts roughly equal racial mixes by the 1999-2000 school year.
The backdrop of the speech, which Mr. Weicker repeatedly acknowledged, is a court case in which minority students from Hartford have sued the state, arguing that racially segregated schools violate the State Constitution's guarantee to equal education. Testimony is under way in that case, with a decision expected sometime this year that could, if the students prevail, mandate sweeping changes. 
 Mr. Weicker did not say that accepting his proposal would short-circuit a court order, but he clearly held out that hope.
 
Ambition and Caution
 "A court-run school system is not for Connecticut -- its children, or its adults," he said. "If we fail to act, the courts, sooner or later, will do that which by election was entrusted to us."
Many legislators acknowledged that the Governor, with his sweeping denunciation of racial and economic balance in Connecticut's public schools, had taken moral leadership on the issue.
The plan, while ambitious in its goals, was cautious in its particulars. Although it calls for creating six educational regions in the state where integration would be achieved by crossing town lines, local control of schools would be maintained, the Governor said, and the plan would include no sanctions against towns that failed to cooperate.
But critics and supporters alike said the speech broke new ground by proclaiming that a system of mostly white suburban schools and mostly minority urban schools was, in itself, harmful to the state and all its children and that the state should act to set things right. That view contradicts the state's position in the lawsuit, in which it has maintained that segregation is a result of housing and immigration patterns and that the state has no responsibility to correct the problem.
"The racial and economic isolation in Connecticut's school system is indisputable," Mr. Weicker said. And though the causes of that inequity might be disputed, he added, in the end it really does not matter. "What matters is that it is here and must be dealt with," he said.
John C. Brittain, a lawyer for the students, said the speech undercut the state's position entirely.
"I don't see why I wouldn't call the Governor tomorrow as a witness," he said, though he quickly added that he did not plan to do that for reasons involving executive privilege.
Under the plan, which has yet to be drafted into a formal legislative proposal, the racial composition of every school system in a region would eventually have to match that of the region as a whole. Thus, New Canaan, a predominantly white town in Fairfield County, would have to increase its minority enrollment to roughly 35.3 percent while Bridgeport, with a predominantly minority population, would cut its minority enrollment to 35.3 percent.
 
'Social Engineering'
 Reaction in the legislature ranged from open skepticism that local communities would ever voluntarily resolve racial divisions without economic or other sanctions by the state, to fear that sanctions may yet emerge as legislators pick up where Mr. Weicker left off.
"I really don't want to see us move in the direction that would put some sort of racial, social engineering as the goal," said Representative Paul J. Knierim, a Republican from Simsbury, and the ranking minority member on the Education Committee. "I don't think it should be our objective to try to make all school districts have the same statistical racial or ethnic makeup regardless of settlement patterns," Mr. Knierim said. "I'm fearful that that's the Governor's thrust with this."
But Hartford's Mayor, Carrie Saxon Perry, a staunch supporter of the students' lawsuit against the state, called the proposal a "clarion call" that was more important for its tone and its basic premise than for the plan itself, which she said did not go far enough.
Lawyers for the state have argued in the lawsuit, called Sheff v. O'Neill, that poverty is the main problem causing poor performance in urban schools, not racial isolation.
 
Motives Questioned
 But Mr. Weicker said again and again in the speech that racial isolation is itself a handicap and that the state government has to be the forum for addressing it and coordinating local efforts.
"That's the key," Ms. Perry said. "Not the plan per se, but his acceptance of the responsibility that we have to take some ownership of the pain out there -- he's made that linkage."
The 30-minute speech, which was full of florid turns of phrase -- several of which seemed directly lifted from Mr. Brittain's opening address in the trial three weeks ago -- clearly struck a raw nerve among some legislators. Many raised the specter of forced cross-district busing, even though Mr. Weicker disavowed that idea as doomed to failure. Others rejected the Governor's overall goal as wrongheaded.
Others clearly suspected Mr. Weicker's motives, suggesting that he was grandstanding to influence the trial, and that when push came to shove in the legislature, he would not be there to back up his plans, as he was in 1991, when he proposed and insisted upon -- through several budget vetoes -- the creation of a state income tax.
"He said he's not trying to skew the Sheff case, but his address today clearly attempted to do that," said the House minority leader, Edward C. Krawiecki Jr., a Republican from Bristol. "What he was trying to put is another piece of evidence, outside the courtroom, before the judges and all the attorneys that are arguing this case -- that look, the legislature and the executive branch are prepared to roll up their sleeves and go to work."
Under the plan, local school officials and municipal leaders in the six educational regions would be responsible for drawing up a plan that would address racial and economic imbalance. Some regions might want to consider magnet schools, or school choice, Mr. Weicker said, or perhaps a full merger of some districts if only in the interests of administrative efficiency.
The state's Education Commissioner, Dr. Vincent L. Ferrandino, said that just getting local communities talking about regional racial imbalances would be something of a revolution. Dr. Ferrandino, a Weicker appointee, also said the state's goal was not strictly racial mixing, but rather a full rethinking of education, staffing and curriculum to enhance education for urban and suburban students alike.
 
Sharp Disparities
 Although there are 166 school districts in Connecticut, about 80 percent of the state's minority students are concentrated in just 18 urban districts. The state's three largest cities, Bridgeport, Hartford and New Haven, have enrollments of more than 80 percent minorities. And 136 of the school districts are more than 90 percent white.
Mr. Weicker stressed in his speech that the specifics of the legislation would not be proposed until next month and that the six regions would also have full control of the process, subject to approval by the State Board of Education, whose members are appointed by the Governor.
But with an issue so capable of arousing fear and suspicion, just leaving things open-ended was enough to raise the anxieties of some legislators.
"I think there's a fear of integration," said Nancy Wyman, a Democrat from Tolland and the co-chairwoman of the legislature's Education Committee. "People say 'I don't want my kids bused into somebody else's area' -- it's a major fear of the public and in this building."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. delivering his State of the State speech yesterday in Hartford. (Steve Miller for The New York Times) (pg. B7)
 
Map of Connecticut (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARTFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (CONN); LAW AND LEGISLATION RACE & RACISM (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); LAWYERS (72%); SUBURBS (72%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



191 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Proposes Tax on Incomes To Aid Schools

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo proposed today to allow localities to finance schools using income taxes instead of property taxes, a move he said would ease the burden of the property tax on people with low incomes and address the disparities between rich and poor school districts.
After years of failing to persuade the Legislature to change the state school aid system to give more help to poorer districts, Mr. Cuomo's proposal marks a new approach to the school finance problem, one of the state's most complicated political and governmental issues. 
 The proposal was part of the State of the State Message Mr. Cuomo presented to the Legislature today. Republicans, who control the state Senate and have blocked all of Mr. Cuomo's previous efforts to overhaul school financing, did not reject Mr. Cuomo's plan outright, a development that the Governor's aides said was encouraging.
The Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, a Republican from the wealthy Long Island community of Oyster Bay, said he agreed with Mr. Cuomo that it would be better to finance schools through income taxes.
But unlike Mr. Cuomo, who proposed to let each county decide whether to make the shift, Mr. Marino said it should be done statewide or not at all. The Governor's plan would provoke an endless series of bruising local battles over which system to use, Mr. Marino said.
"I have a problem with letting each district decide whether it will use property taxes or income taxes," Mr. Marino said in a news conference. "I think we ought to discuss a statewide approach."
The Nassau County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, a Republican who is close to Mr. Marino, said that he detected an ulterior motive in the Governor's plan -- to shift political responsibility for levying the new taxes on to the counties.
"What the Governor is trying to do is hold the line on state taxes by passing along the state's obligation to localities," Mr. Gulotta said.
Mr. Cuomo also used his address to answer critics of the state's finances by proposing a reorganization of the way the state borrows money. Under his plan, the state would reduce its dependence on borrowing by quasi-governmental agencies, creating a new authority that could borrow money under tighter voter scrutiny.
The Governor presented his programs in an 59-minute address that was notable for the lack of new spending initiatives. With estimates that the budget deficit for the year that begins April 1 could be as high as $4 billion, even Mr. Cuomo's aides acknowledged that the centerpiece of his economic development program -- more than $25 billion in capital spending over five years -- was little more than a reconstitution and repackaging of previous plans.
 
A Sign of Frustration
 Mr. Cuomo has been trying throughout his tenure to force the Legislature to agree to changes in the financing formulas for the state's public schools, which poor districts complain penalize them at the expense of rich districts. But he has always been unsuccessful, and today's plan seemed to be a sign of his frustration at his lack of success.
The proposal could affect 718 school districts around the state, but would do nothing to address the complaints of New York City and Yonkers that they receive too little education aid from the state. Both cities already have income taxes, a portion of which they use to support education. Most other states finance their school districts using real-estate taxes.
Mr. Cuomo said his proposal, which he will present to the Legislature in the form of a bill by April 1, was also aimed at addressing concerns of many voters about spiraling property taxes, particularly at a time when incomes have barely increased at all.
"Instead of some elderly woman living in a house all by herself with the assessment theoretically going up every year because the value goes up every year," the Governor said, "instead of her having to pay more and more for the schoolchildren, why not an income tax? At least it's more progressive. At least it has a closer relationship to what you're able to pay."
But his plan took many people by surprise and left his aides scrambling to provide details of how it would work in practice.
"It fosters progressivity and equity, but it leaves a myriad of practical questions to be addressed and answered," said Thomas Sobol, state education commissioner. "I don't know how we plan to do this."
In Westchester County, Dr. Anthony L. Mazzullo, superintendent of the Greenburgh Central School District and president of the Lower Hudson Council of School Superintendents, said he would welcome changes in a system that he said placed undue burdens on people who may have large homes but small incomes. "People are being taxed out of their homes," he said.
 
Levying Tax as Surcharge
 Under the Governor's proposal, each county would be allowed to hold a voter referendum to determine what system it preferred for its school districts: the income-tax or the property-tax system.
If the county decided to switch to the income-tax system, the taxes would be levied as a surcharge on the state income tax. The state would collect the money and give it back to the county to be distributed among local school districts according to a formula set by either the county or the state.
Mr. Cuomo presented the education plan as part of an array of proposals mapping out his legislative agenda for the coming year. Among his plans, he said, are the appointment of a special commission to investigate school district salaries, a renewed effort for a constitutional convention that would propose changes in laws governing politics and ethics and expansion of efforts to alleviate state prison overcrowding.
Many of the legislative proposals have been introduced in previous years, only to fall prey to the legislative gridlock that so often paralyzes Albany. Saying that November's election had showed that the people were tired of inaction, the Governor challenged the Legislature to work harder in the coming year.
Today's speech came at a time of scaled-back expectations for Mr. Cuomo, who saw his presidential ambitions die in 1991's budget morass and who has suffered a series of disappointments in recent months, including the voters' rejection of his $800 million jobs bond act in November.
 
Clapping His Own Hands
 The State of the State address is usually a chance for the Governor to burnish his fine oratorical skills and to speak graciously to the Legislature, with whom he is feuding more often than not. But today even those opportunities appeared to elude him, as his Teleprompter malfunctioned several times and the usually voluble Mr. Cuomo appeared to search for words.
And at one point, when the standing-room-only audience in the stately Assembly chamber was applauding one of his proposals, he stopped speaking and began to clap his own hands together. "I have discovered that this is easier to do than to write a bill," he said, rather snappishly. "This you can do, we can all do, that's easy. Monkeys do that."
He quickly included himself in the unflattering characterization, but not quickly enough to assuage members of his legislative audience, who began to grumble audibly. Senator Charles D. Cook, a Republican of Delhi, was so disgruntled that he gave the usually charismatic Mr. Cuomo perhaps the worst insult imaginable. "I think it is the most boring speech I have ever heard from the Governor," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: During Governor Cuomo's speech, 4-year-old Ashley Flanagan took a nap on the lap of her father, Assemblyman John J. Flanagan. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; YONKERS (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INCOME TAX; PROPERTY TAXES PROPERTY TAX (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); BONDS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



192 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Chairman Steps Down At Macy's Western Unit

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Daniel B. Finkelstein, chairman of R. H. Macy & Company's West Coast division, has suddenly resigned, marking the end of what had once been seen as a family dynasty at the retail company.
Rudolph J. Borneo, president of the division and a graduate of Macy's executive training program, will serve as acting chairman of the division until a successor to Mr. Finkelstein is hired, the company said. 
 Mr. Finkelstein's departure from the financially struggling division was no surprise to Macy's suppliers, company insiders and industry consultants. In fact, many of them had expected his resignation to follow more closely that of his father, Edward S. Finkelstein, who resigned as chairman of Macy shortly after the $6.5 billion company filed for bankruptcy protection last January.
Daniel Finkelstein's brother Mitchel resigned in November as head of Macy's product development and sourcing offices in Hong Kong. In a brief statement issued yesterday, Daniel Finkelstein said that in the short term, at least, he would join his father and brother in developing a specialty retail and apparel venture in the Far East.
His wife, Susan, vice president in charge of the West Coast division's personal shopping service, has no plans to leave the company, a Macy spokesman said.
Advisers to the company and to its creditors said Mr. Finkelstein's resignation was not entirely voluntary, and Mr. Finkelstein's statement did not address the issue. His appointment in 1989 at the age of 34 as chairman of what became the company's West division had created dissension as more experienced merchants were passed over. The division consists of 53 Macy's and Bullock's department stores, with combined annual sales of about $2.5 billion.
Mr. Finkelstein himself was apparently sensitive about his filial relationship to the corporate chairman: he always insisted that his name be pronounced fink-el-STINE, although his father's name is pronounced fink-el-STEEN.
He was among the five highest-paid executives at Macy, receiving salary and other cash compensation amounting to $533,286 in the year that ended Aug. 1. He was also an equity investor in the management-led buyout that took Macy private in 1986.
 
California Woes
 The advisers said the poor performance of the stores in the West gave the company a convenient excuse to oust him. The deteriorating economy in California has had a deleterious effect on Macy's business there. Christmas sales in Northern California were 5 percent below 1991's holiday sales, which were notoriously bad.
And the division has struggled with a new computerized system for managing inventory and a new process of buying and allocating merchandise that Macy has implemented to cut costs and better control inventories.
Edward Finkelstein's rise to power at Macy first became apparent on the West Coast, when he overhauled the Macy's store on Union Square in San Francisco, the flagship of the West division. He banished the store's bargain basement and filled the space with a gourmet food shop and novel kitchen wares. He called the department the Cellar, giving Macy's a more glamorous image and sending competitors scrambling to copy the concept.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel B. Finkelstein's resignation from R. H. Macy follows those of his father and brother. (R. H. Macy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: M (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (98%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: WEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MACY, R H, & CO MACY'S INC (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); WEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); MANAGER TRAINING (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; FINKELSTEIN, DANIEL; BORNEO, RUDOLPH DANIEL FINKELSTEIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



193 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Nationsbank Card Features a Savings Plan

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Nationsbank Inc., the country's No. 4 bank, said today that it was introducing a credit card that would enable card holders to build their savings when they make purchases.
The card program, a joint venture with Start Inc. of Herndon, Va., will provide each holder of a Nationsbank-Start Visa or Mastercard with a tax-deferred annuity administered by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of New York. 
 Each time the card is used, Nationsbank will pay up to 1 percent of the total purchase price to the annuity. Some merchants participating in the program will make additional payments of up to 6 percent of the total purchase to the annuity.
 
Dual Function
 "Until now, you've only had two choices with your money: You could either spend it or save it," said Lawrence S. Andreini, chairman of Start, a private company formed in 1988 to create the annuity program. "You could never do both at the same time."
Kenneth D. Lewis, president of general banking for Nationsbank, based in Charlotte, N.C., asserted that the new card was the only one to provide a savings plan for users. "We look forward to making savings easy," he said.
In addition to Nationsbank, about 18 retail and service companies offer rebates to the annuity under the Start program. These include the MCI Communications Corporation, the Hertz Corporation, GE Capital Small Fleet and Spiegel Inc.
The card will carry a $35 annual fee, which will be waived if purchases exceed $2,000. Holders can choose a card with either a fixed rate of 16.9 percent annually or a variable rate.
Nationsbank said it would market the program initially through 350 branches in metropolitan Washington, Baltimore, Houston and Columbia, S.C. The company said it expects to market the program nationwide by the end of March.
Nationsbank and Start declined to discuss details of their arrangement. Still, analysts said the deal could help Nationsbank increase its market share.
"The game that's going on in the credit card business today is to take business away from your competitors," said Dennis F. Shea, bank analyst with Morgan Stanley Group Inc. "This kind of program puts pressure on the institutions that don't offer any kinds of incentives to credit card holders.
"This is kind of a neat idea because it potentially attracts higher-net-worth people."
 
Fees Appealing
 Mr. Shea noted that some credit card incentive plans, such as a low-interest rate card offered by the Wachovia Corporation of Winston-Salem, N.C., encouraged card holders to pay for purchases on an extended basis.
"I would suspect that this kind of plan will attract people who will pay off most of their purchases at the end of the month, and Nationsbank probably will make their money out of the transaction processing fees," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); MET (NYSE) (72%); HTZ (NYSE) (67%); VZC (LSE) (67%); VZ (NYSE) (67%); GNE (PAR) (66%); GEC (LSE) (66%); GE (SWX) (66%); GE (NYSE) (66%); MS (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (72%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (67%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); NAICS448320 LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (66%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (66%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (66%); NAICS424340 FOOTWEAR MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (75%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONSBANK CORP; START INC; METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); START INC (HERNDON, VIRGINIA) (72%); METLIFE INC (72%); HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (67%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (67%); EDDIE BAUER INC (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONSBANK CORP; START INC; METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (75%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; ANNUITIES CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANNUITIES (88%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MARKET SHARE (75%); SALES REBATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); 

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



194 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Money Market Funds Show Seasonal Increase in Yields

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Still affected by seasonal pressures, yields offered by tax-exempt and taxable money market funds were up in the latest week.
The latest survey by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report shows tax-exempt yields moderately higher for the week that ended Tuesday. 
 Assets of tax-exempt funds fell by $1.9 billion, to a total $97.4 billion, as the average number of days left to maturity of securities being held in tax-free fund portfolios dropped to 58, from 59. This is in line with the seasonal situation, because as yields rise, analysts noted, portfolio managers shorten positions in order to take advantage of the increases.
The seasonal factors include investor tax strategies and "window dressing" by portfolio managers trying to build up their funds' returns as year-end comparisons are made.
The seven-day average compounded yield for tax-exempt funds rose 9 basis points, to 2.83 percent, while the average seven-day simple yield rose by 8 basis points, to 2.79. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent. Donoghue's statisticians calculate that over a 30-day period, the compounded yield has averaged 2.45 percent and the simple yield 2.48 percent.
Ignoring state taxes, the taxable bond equivalent of the seven-day compounded yield this week for someone in a 28 percent tax bracket was about 3.93 percent, and about 4.10 percent for the 31 percent bracket.
From its survey of tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue's said the Calvert Tax Free Reserves/ California Money Market Portfolio outperformed the group, to yield 3.72 percent.
Walter S. Frank, the chief economist at IBC/Donoghue's, predicted that the seasonal pressures would persist through the end of the month. Once the pressures abate and yields start to fall, there should be a flow of cash into the money market funds, since yields there will be slower in dropping than in many other comparable investments.
The municipal bond sector will also add to the flow of cash into the funds, as a heavy redemption of municipal securities puts money into investors' hands. Some of that money will go at least temporarily, if not permanently, to money market funds, which are a popular place to park cash for short periods.
For the week ended yesterday assets of taxable money market funds declined by $6.4 billion, to a total $459.5 billion, with institutional funds down by $5.3 billion and retail funds down $1.1 billion. The seven-day compounded yield on taxable funds rose 9 basis points, to 2.96.
 
Shortening Maturities
 Donoghue's analysts said the average days left to maturity of securities in taxable money market portfolios fell to 56, from 57.
Olde Premium Plus Money Market Series, distributed by Olde Asset Management Inc. in Detroit, was the top-yielding general-purpose fund with assets of more than $100 million. The fund was yielding 3.78 percent at the end of the week.
Banks that compete directly with money market funds for investor money barely raised the average yield offered on their money market accounts, to 2.77 percent from 2.76 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on Jan. 6, 1993 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

	Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	New York	2.60	2.92	Los Angeles	2.74	2.97	Chicago	2.77	3.13	San Francisco	2.73	2.85	Philadelphia	2.82	2.92	Detroit	2.87	3.02	Boston	2.81	3.06	Houston	2.74	3.18	Dallas	2.73	3.15	Washington	2.84	3.26	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	2.77	3.05	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408
Chart: "Regional Bank Rates"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS; INTEREST RATES MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); TAX PLANNING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



195 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: United Air Announces Huge Cuts

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Citing chaotic industry conditions and annual losses of hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years, United Airlines yesterday announced a package of layoffs, salary cuts, fewer flights and other measures aimed at cutting operating expenses by $400 million a year.
Stephen M. Wolf, United's chairman and chief executive, described the industry's ills as "well documented" and "pervasive," pointing especially to the fare wars led by carriers like Continental Airlines, Trans World Airlines and regional competitors that are operating in bankruptcy and benefiting from court orders cutting their costs. 
 Separately, in a letter to President-elect Bill Clinton calling for immediate appointment of a national commission to study the industry, Mr. Wolf also complained about the impact of trade barriers limiting international expansion and outdated airports and support facilities.
"These problems will not be solved simply by a resurgence in the economy," Mr. Wolf said in the letter.
 
Industry's Biggest Cutback
 Analysts and industry consultants called United's retrenchment the most comprehensive yet announced in the hard-pressed industry, although not necessarily more far-reaching in the long run than measures that have been announced in stages at major competitors like American Airlines and Delta Air Lines. United is the second-largest domestic airline after American, which recently set $300 million in cost savings as its goal for 1993.
"United's action is a significant but consistent move," said Daniel Kasper, an industry consultant at Harbridge House in Boston. "The major airlines have all concluded that they cannot wait for the economic recovery and must get closer to profitability now."
United said it will lay off 2,800 employees, or about 3 percent of its workforce, by the end of the month. Some of the layoffs will come from scaling back domestic service, although the company did not release details on which flights would be cut and which airports abandoned. The company hopes a voluntary severance plan will create openings for a portion of those now in line to be laid off. In addition to the layoffs, the company will not hire 1,900 new employees it had planned on adding this year, starting with 251 flight attendants currently in its training program.
 
Following the Delta Lead
 United's pay cuts follow the lead of Delta's last fall. Mr. Wolf's salary will be reduced by 15 percent, or about $100,000, from about $670,000 this year. Ronald W. Allen, his counterpart at Delta, took a $100,000 pay cut, to $475,000. Both airlines are cutting the salaries of all other managers by 5 percent. United's 11 outside board members are having their $20,000 annual fees cut 10 percent, or half as much as their counterparts at Delta.
Union representatives said that Mr. Wolf had scheduled a meeting next week with them to seek what the company called "similar sacrifices" to those imposed on its managers.
"We will be meeting tomorrow with the International Association of Machinists and the pilots' representatives to discuss what, if anything, we are willing to do," said Diane Tucker, president of the council representing the airline's 18,000 unionized flight attendants. "We're very concerned about the company."
United accompanied today's announcement with new warnings to Wall Street that the airline projected a large fourth-quarter loss and the earnings could be driven even deeper into the red if the company records a charge of nearly $1 billion to meet new accounting rules covering obligations to retirees for medical benefits. The company has already lost $165.9 million in the first three quarters of this year.
Investors appeared sobered by the warning and, analysts speculated, some may have interpreted the entire announcement as a sign that United's management was gloomier than it had been about the prospects for 1993. United's shares fell $1.125 today, to $123.875, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. But analysts took a more favorable view.
"It's a no-nonsense approach and should be seen positively," said Candace Browning, who follows the industry for Merrill Lynch Global Securities. "They had told analysts they wanted to keep costs flat. People who listened realized they would have to do something like this to meet that goal."
The cutbacks are largely separate from any that may result from negotiations United announced last month with the Boeing Company, its chief aircraft supplier, to reduce commitments to buy 433 new aircraft in the coming years. United said that it hoped to convince Boeing to delay delivery of some of the 55 aircraft it is scheduled to receive this year. It has increased the number of aging aircraft it plans to retire to 40 and is also considering grounding 10 747-SP's, an aging class of small, gas-guzzling wide-bodied craft. The result would be little or no increase in the fleet of 545 aircraft.
 "We are going to continue to grow United Airlines, but at a slower rate," Mr. Wolf said. He said that overseas operations remained profitable and that the company's strategy of expanding abroad, which has already made it the nation's largest international carrier, was sound.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Northwest Union Stake
 ST. PAUL, Minn., Jan. 6 (Reuters) -- Northwest Airlines' six unions will seek about an 80 percent equity stake in return for a proposed $900 million investment in the ailing airline, people familiar with talks between the union and company said today.
 In addition, five positions on a 15-member company board would be designated for the unions, a person familiar with the talks said. The company now has 13 board members.
 Northwest's unions pledged the $900 million investment through contract concessions in November. They outlined demands for the investment to Northwest's president, John Dasburg on Tuesday, and further details were discussed today.
 "It will be money we're putting into the corporation," said Curt Kruse, spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association. Union representatives will meet with the company to hammer out more details about the proposal in the next several days.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen M. Wolf (Steve Kagan) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIR LINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); WAGES AND SALARIES; AIRPORTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) LAYOFFS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); AIR FARES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; WOLF, STEPHEN M; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



196 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: BEDFORD JOURNAL;
Seeking the Quaint, Town Says No to Neon Signs

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

DATELINE: BEDFORD, N.Y.

 BODY:
MICHAEL GASPERINO has a red-and-white neon sign that boldly advertises one of his convenience store's biggest bargains: "Ham & Egg on Roll with Coffee $1.25."
But after roughly 20 years of faithful illumination in the front window of his shop here, the 4-foot-by-4-foot sign has been forcibly relegated to the cellar, where it is now surrounded by bags stuffed with discarded soda cans. 
 In late November, citing a nine-year-old Bedford zoning ordinance that many shopkeepers say they had never heard of, town officials ordered Mr. Gasperino's shop, the Bedford Hills Delicatessen, and 33 other establishments to remove their neon signs immediately or face fines of up to $250 a week.
The officials said the crackdown was mounted, in part, to maintain the "sleepy" image of this community made up of three hamlets tucked in the woods of northern Westchester County. But some shop owners have protested that the recently dusted-off ordinance strips them of one of their most distinctive and least expensive forms of advertising, a particularly sharp blow in tough economic times.
"They want to keep this a quaint, little, traditional town," said Mr. Gasperino, 35 years old. "And that's all fine and dandy. But that doesn't help us pay our taxes or our rent."
Since November, 32 of the businesses, which are mostly mom-and-pop operations, have taken down their signs, albeit grudgingly. But two -- Berner's Jewelers and the Katonah Image, a photography shop -- have refused to comply, town officials said. As a result, their owners have been issued summonses to appear in town court on Jan. 27 or face the possibility of arrest.
Sound like a petty dispute?
Not to Lawrence E. Dwyer Jr., the Bedford town supervisor, who said the anti-neon campaign was carefully orchestrated to immunize this 312-year-old town -- which is made up of the hamlets of Bedford Hills, Bedford Village and Katonah -- against what he believes is an increasing proliferation of neon and glitz in some surrounding communities.
"We like our hamlets to slow down," he said. "We like our hamlets to sleep. We like our hamlets to have a quiet charm about them.
"Neon is not part of what we are."
It's not that anyone would mistake Bedford for Las Vegas.
The most prominent signs removed from windows here included those in which neon tubing was twisted into the shape of a yogurt cone, a pair of eyeglasses and a clothes hanger. Some merely said, "Open." Two were functioning clocks.
Similar ordinances exist in other municipalities -- Westport, Conn., and Carmel, Calif., among them -- but the knowledge that they are not alone has proved to be of little comfort to the shop owners here.
"People will often ask where my store is at," said Robie Burke, an optician whose window used to display an oversized pair of neon, John Lennon-style glasses. "I'll say, 'Just look for the pair of red neon eyeglasses in the window.' "
"I think it'll definitely affect the business," he said, cradling the unplugged, $600 sign in his hands.
Carol Kiley, whose two sons own Katonah Image, the photography shop, said its multicolored sign -- which advertises laser copies, Canon products and the fact that the store is open -- is needed to attract customers to the shop, which is outside Katonah's main business district.
As the sign continued to burn in the window at midday, Ms. Kiley said the business would absorb the fines, if it came to that. "We're die-hards," she said.
Mr. Dwyer, the town supervisor, said that he was sympathetic to Ms. Kiley's concerns, but that it would be difficult to make exceptions to the rule. Both he and Jeffrey Osterman, the town's planning director, said that the ordinance was written for public safety as well as aesthetics. Neon signs, they contend, are more likely to distract drivers because they are brighter thean the more traditional "box" signs lighted by concealed bulbs.
Town officials argue that they, too, are sensitive to the struggling economy, but that they want to attract a particular kind of shopper, someone lured by Bedford's colonial ambiance, not by a sign visible from Route 117. "Our primary goal for our business district is not regional shopping," Mr. Dwyer said.
Toni Palmer, who works at the Taconic Correctional Facility, one of two women's prisons on the outskirts of town, said Mr. Dwyer's logic is lost on her.
"Come on," she said, while waiting at the Bedford Hills train station. "Unless it has naked ladies or something really obscene, or unless it's super big, I don't see where a sign will affect the town."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials of Bedford, N.Y., ordered 34 establishments to remove their neon signs. "People will often ask where my store is at," said Robie Burke, above, an optician who used to display an oversized pair of neon glasses. "I'll say, 'Just look for the pair of red neon eyeglasses in the window.' " (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Map of Westchester highlighting Bedford

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BEDFORD (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; NEON; SIGNS ORDINANCES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); CITIES (75%); ZONING (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



197 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A Shake-Up at Williams-Sonoma

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 6

 BODY:
In an apparent management shake-up, Williams-Sonoma Inc., a retailer of kitchenware and other home and garden items, today announced the resignation of its president and chief operating officer, Kent Larson, and its senior vice president and general merchandising manager, Glen Senk.
Williams-Sonoma, which is based here, had losses in the first three quarters of 1991 but says it expects to return to the black in its fourth-quarter results. 
 Mr. Larson's appointment as an executive vice president of First Bank System Inc. in Minneapolis was announced within hours of the Williams-Sonoma statement.
First Bank said Mr. Larson would direct the personal trust operations of its St. Paul subsidiary, First Trust National Assocation, starting Feb. 8.
Mr. Senk was said to have resigned to pursue other business interests and was not available for comment.
 
Chairman to Assume Duties
 Williams-Sonoma said it did not plan to hire a president; W. Howard Lester, its chairman and chief executive, will take over the president's responsibilities.
"We, as most retailers, have had a difficult past two years during the recession," James E. Riley, Williams-Sonoma's senior vice president and chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview. He said the management shuffle was "an effort to try and streamline our organization to best respond to some of these pressures."
While Williams-Sonoma opened 40 stores in 1991 and 26 stores in 1992, it plans to only open 3 to 6 stores this year, Mr. Riley said. He added that the company had had a very strong Christmas and should be "strongly in the black" for the fourth quarter. "Williams-Sonoma during the month of December performed at a higher rate than in the past two years," he said.
Williams-Sonoma operates 214 stores in three chains: Williams-Sonoma, which sells specialty kitchen utensils; Pottery Barn, which sells lower-cost housewares, and Hold Everything, which sells closet organizers and related goods. The company also has five catalogues, which include the three retail outlets' goods, plus Chambers, for bathroom supplies; Gardener's Eden, for gardening, and the California Closet Company.
Janet Joseph Kloppenburg, an analyst with Robertson Stephens & Company in New York, said the company's difficulties lay not with the Williams-Sonoma flagship, but with Pottery Barn and Hold Everything, "which have been plagued with fundamental problems." Pottery Barn and Hold Everything's "sluggish sales indicate their merchandise really hasn't been in line with consumers' desires," she said.
As part of the realignment, Williams-Sonoma said Gary Friedman, senior vice president for retail operations, had been promoted to executive vice president and would assume additional merchandising responsibility for the retail division, including Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn and Hold Everything. Pat Connolly, senior vice president for mail order operations, will assume full responsilibity for the mail order division. They will both report to Mr. Lester.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: WSM (NYSE) (94%); USB (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS-SONOMA INC; FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC WILLIAMS-SONOMA INC (94%); U S BANCORP (71%); CALIFORNIA CLOSET CO (63%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (52%); GARDENER'S EDEN INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILLIAMS-SONOMA INC; FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS EXECUTIVES (94%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (91%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (74%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M; LARSON, KENT; LESTER, W HOWARD; SENK, GLEN; FRIEDMAN, GARY GLEN T SENK (88%); HOWARD LESTER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



198 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up on Iraqi Tensions And German Rates Rumor

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished higher against key currencies yesterday, strengthened by increased Iraq-Americantensions and a rumor that Germany's central bank might ease interest rates.
Gold prices advanced marginally after hitting seven-year lows earlier in the week. At the Commodity Exchange in New York, bullion for current delivery fetched $329.80, up $1.10 from Tuesday. The 4 P.M. spot price quoted by the Republic National Bank was $329.65, up 45 cents from the same time Tuesday. 
 Brokers focused on an ultimatum to Saddam Hussein to remove his missile batteries from the no-flight zone in southern Iraq, a sanction imposed in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf war.
"I think the saber-rattling against Iraq was what helped the dollar," said Hillel Waxman, chief foreign exchange dealer at the New York office of the Bank Leumi Trust Company.
 
Haven for Investors
 Rising international tensions tend to support the dollar because it is a favored haven among global investors.
Some traders also attributed the dollar's strength to a rumor that the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, might ease interest rates at a regularly scheduled council meeting today.
Wary of inflation, the Germans have maintained high interest rates in the face of tremendous pressure to drop them by trading partners who have seen their own currencies weaken as a result. The higher a country's interest rate, the more attractive its currency.
"The minute the Germans make a significant cut in interest rates in the short term, it's probably the beginning of a long-term trend," said John Nelson, vice president and chief foreign exchange dealer at the New York office of the ABN-Amro Bank. "We're not looking for how much they cut, but whether they cut."
Nonetheless, others said the rumor seemed to conflict with remarks yesterday by the Bundesbank president, Helmut Schlesinger, who said Germany's fight against inflation continued to be the priority.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 124.84 yen, down 0.41 yen from Tuesday. Later in London the dollar fetched 125.08 yen. By the time trading concluded in New York the dollar was worth 125.15 yen, up from 124.85 yen Tuesday.
The pound closed at $1.5410 at in London, weaker than its $1.5445 value late Tuesday. Later in New York the pound fetched $1.5420, weaker than its $1.5500 value Tuesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with rates late Tuesday, were: 1.6340 marks, up from 1.6255; 1.4877 Swiss francs, up from 1.4720; 1.27995 Canadian dollars, up from 1.27725; 5.5650 French francs, up from 5.5475, and 1,526.00 Italian lire, up from 1,521.10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES GERMANY (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); TRENDS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



199 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Worrying About That Old Enemy

BYLINE: By Sylvia Nasar

 BODY:
NEVER mind that many Americans can't decide whether the recession is really over, let alone how robust the recovery will be. The hard money crowd at the Federal Reserve is already on to the next battle: inflation.
No sooner was the election over than Fed policy makers evidently decided, albeit tentatively, to lower targets for money supply growth. That's not the same as clamping down on money growth, but it is a signal of shifting priorities and future intentions. 
 Are they out of touch? Suicidal? Last year's inflation rate, 2 to 3 percent, was lower than in any year (barring fluky 1986 when oil prices plunged 20 percent) since the Beatles left Liverpool, and forecasters expect it to stay that way a while. Meanwhile, Henry B. Gonzalez of Texas, the populist chairman of the House Banking Committee, is looking for excuses to push legislation to increase Congressional supervision of the Fed.
Actually, the Fed is just doing its job.
Even though the 1980's knocked the wind out of nearly two decades of chronic inflation, the problem can't be solved once and for all. Like the common cold, inflation keeps coming back.
"Whenever you've got a paper money standard," said Ben Bernanke, an economist at Princeton University, "all that stands between you and inflation is the central bank's willingness to keep low and stable money growth rates."
Inflation flares when the economy is running flat out. For the last couple of decades, says Robert J. Gordon at Northwestern University, the danger zone lies below 6 percent unemployment and above 82 percent factory utilization.
Economists will disagree on when the Fed should tighten -- or how much -- to keep inflation from reviving. With unemployment at 7.2 percent, factories running at only 78 percent of capacity and the prospect of a mild expansion, even the most hawkish of inflation hawks don't expect an inflation problem for at least the next year or so.
What does seem clear is that the two-decade episode of creeping inflation can mainly be traced to missteps by past administrations and the Fed. "Inflation is made in Washington," said William Poole at Brown University.
The mistake he's referring to: Government follows expansionary policies -- fiscal or monetary -- too long, pushing even after the economy has no room to grow. That mistake was made frequently in the 1960's and 1970's with the result that inflation vaulted from 2.5 percent a year to 10 percent.
Traditionally, Democratic administrations have been more prone to this sort of error than Republican ones, and none was guiltier than the Carter Administration. The severe recession that followed the first oil crisis ended in 1975, but recovery stalled in 1976. Inflation had fallen sharply and was thought to be heading down further. With unemployment close to 8 percent, the Carter White House put pressure on the Fed to pump up the economy in 1977 and 1978. A new, more virulent round of inflation followed.
The trouble is that the terms of the trade-off aren't all that great. Wishful thinkers used to believe that tolerating a little more inflation could buy them a lot more growth and much lower unemployment. Now they know better.
"Suppose you're willing to tolerate 4 to 5 percent unemployment," Professor Bernanke said. "You could pump things up, get a one-time gain in output. But then you go back to a normal rate of growth. The trade-off is between a couple of points of inflation forever and a one-time benefit in the short run."
Probably the biggest reason for welcoming a watchful attitude on the inflation front is that Americans paid a high price to curb inflation -- most notably the severe recessions in the mid-70's and early 80's. "Just about every postwar recssion came about in response to rising inflation," Professor Poole said.
A new study underscores just how costly it was to unwind the inflationary spiral. Steven G. Cecchetti, an economist at Ohio State University, figures that each time inflation was knocked down five percentage points or so -- in the mid-70's, and in the early 80's -- it ultimately cost Americans an entire year's worth of national income.
"People's incomes ended up much lower than they would have been, " Professor Cecchetti said, because output was lost along with jobs and business opportunities.
President-elect Bill Clinton hasn't made known his views on inflation and Fed policy. But his team is surely anxious to avoid the mistakes of the Carter Administration. And, the Democratic supply siders, like their Reagan counterparts, sense that higher growth in the long run will come only from increasing productive capacity.
It remains to be seen whether the Clinton Administration will live up to its own oratory. In the meantime, be thankful that a vigilant Fed is worrying about something that nobody else is.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INFLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); COMMON COLD (51%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA BEN BERNANKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993



200 of 905 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 6; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Theater Suffering After Film Boycott

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
The theater industry in New York City is an unexpected victim of the Hollywood film boycott that ended more than a year and a half ago, according to a new study of the city's theater business, to be released today.
During the boycott, a bitter nine-month stalemate between Hollywood producers and New York film unions, the major studios virtually shut down film making in the city. Not only has the number of movie productions in New York been sharply reduced ever since, the report says, but the boycott has also caused a lasting talent drain of actors and production and technical workers, many of whom have moved to the West Coast. That exodus has reduced the available pool for theater in New York as well. 
 Although the boycott was settled in May 1991, "film making hasn't picked up, and that's affected the theater business in New York," said Jack L. Goldstein, a co-author of the report, which surveyed businesses, producers and suppliers working on Broadway shows as well as the city's nonprofit theater companies.
 
Following the Work
 In the survey, 80 percent of the theater agents and 60 percent of the booking agents cited the lingering effects of the film boycott as a serious problem. "The talent people say they're having a difficult time in casting because so many actors have moved," said Mr. Goldstein, the former executive director of the nonprofit group Save the Theaters. "The faces go where the film work is."
"It was an eye-opener to us to see that the theater and film industries are so closely related," he said. He added that many theater businesses surveyed were concerned that the effects of the boycott would continue, and some worried that they would have to leave New York.
The report, titled "1982-1992-2002: A Generation of New York Theater," was prepared by Exploring the Metropolis, an independent, not-for-profit research organization financed with grants from foundations and individuals. Its findings are to be presented at a news conference at the Showbiz Expo East, a three-day entertainment-industry convention at the New York Hilton Hotel. Among those scheduled to attend the announcement are Luis R. Cancel, the City Cultural Affairs Commissioner; Barbara J. Fife, the city's Deputy Mayor for Planning and Development; Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn Theaters, and Ron Silver, the president of the Actors' Equity Association.
 
Thousands of Businesses at Stake
 The study is believed to be the first attempt to tally the total number of theater businesses in the city and to survey their problems and prospects. It has identified 1,600 theater-industry businesses, compiled from a variety of sources that included business directories, contact books, word of mouth and even the Yellow Pages. "The universe of such businesses in the city may be as high as 2,000, but we were unable to trace all of them because they move and change names," said Eugenie C. Cowan, the director of Exploring the Metropolis and the report's other co-author.
The number of such businesses has declined about 15 percent in the last decade, according to the report.
The researchers surveyed more than 250 suppliers, theater operators, producers, publicity agents, booking agents, unions and service organizations. They did not specifically survey the Broadway theaters owned or operated by the Shubert Organization, the Nederlander Organization and Jujamcyn Theaters, since the League of American Theaters and Producers compiles statistics for those theaters.
Mr. Landesman, of Jujamcyn, said yesterday that the lingering effects of the film boycott on Broadway productions were "difficult to assess" but that "it does seem to me that more and more of the actors that we want to hire have moved to Los Angeles." He added, "We've also lost quite a few good designers to movies, for they move where the work is."
Of the businesses surveyed, 35 percent had been operating for 10 years or less, and 28 percent had annual budgets between $150,000 and $500,000. Not surprisingly, an overwhelming majority of the businesses surveyed, 87 percent, were in Manhattan, most of them in the traditional theater district, ZIP codes 10036 and 10019, from 42d Street to 59th Street west of Fifth Avenue.
The most serious problem identified by theater operators and independent producers was the decline in financing from corporations, foundations and government. They said the recession had sharply reduced investment capital for commercial operations and adversely affected the number of nonprofit theater productions.
According to the report, support from the city's Department of Cultural Affairs has remained relatively steady, declining to $1.25 million in 1992, compared with $1.35 million in 1989. Theater grants from the National Endowment for the Arts dropped sharply to $1.6 million in 1991, from $3.2 million in 1981.
The study found that the cost of a typical showcase production, the presentation of a new work at an Off Off Broadway theater, was $13,200, compared with $105,340 for a typical Off Broadway musical and $1,078,100 for a typical Broadway play.
"That's surprisingly high," said Mr. Goldstein, referring to the Off Off Broadway figure, which covered theater rental, lighting, music and other production expenses, but not the services of actors, set designers, costume designers or lighting directors. For an Off Off Broadway showcase, their work is generally donated.
 
Small Spaces Breed New Work
 There are 185 nonprofit theater companies in the city, the report said, including institutional theaters with their own facilities and producing organizations that rent space. The report's survey of 103 of those companies found that they mounted 459 productions, of which 393, or 85 percent, were new works.
According to the Alliance of Resident Theaters of New York, nonprofit theater in the city grosses $100 million a year and generates $300 million to $400 million a year for secondary businesses.
The League of American Theaters and Producers reported last June that Broadway had grosses of $290 million for the 1991-92 season. Estimates of the yearly economic impact of Broadway on the city have ranged from $1 billion to more than $3 billion, according to industry sources.
The report, however, gave particular attention to the value of the city's smaller performance spaces. Among the companies surveyed, 97 percent of new works were produced in theaters with 499 seats or fewer. More specifically, 65 percent of the new work was produced in houses counting 99 seats or less.
The study found that of the theater companies surveyed, 75 percent rented their performance space, 13 percent owned it, 7 percent shared it and 5 percent were operating in donated space.
 
Optimism at a Premium
 The study raises the concern that, despite the box-office success of the 1991-92 Broadway season, New York's franchise on theater is eroding because the recession has reduced attendance and public financing of the arts.
When asked about the future of the theater industry, 56 percent of those surveyed gave the prospects as only fair, in comparison to poor (23 percent) or good (14 percent).
"We saw this as a call for help," Ms. Cowan said.
But not everything is bleak. "A very positive aspect of the study was that many people said they are looking for creative ways to present more and better theater in the city," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); WEST USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EXPLORING THE METROPOLIS (ORGN)

ORGANIZATION: EXPLORING THE METROPOLIS (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); WEST USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; MOTION PICTURES; ACTORS AND ACTRESSES; BOYCOTTS; LABOR FILM (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); TALENT AGENTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WRITERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (61%); THEATER (58%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1993

 
